Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7485-CAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PRO.ECT
DECEMBER 5, 1988
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Industry and Energy Division
This document has a resticted dribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     CFA Franc (CPAF)
US$1                -     CFAF 305
CFAF 1              =     US$0.00328
CFAF 1,000          =     USS3.28
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
One kV                                      1,000 Volts
One Megawatt (HW)                 G         1,000 kilowatts (kW)
One Megawatt hour (MWh)                     1 thousand kWh
One barrel (bbl)                  -         159 liters
One ton of oil equivalent (toe) -           about 7 bbl of crude oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF          -     African Development Fund
AfDB         -     African Development Bank
ABEDA        -     Arab Ban; for Economic Development in Africa
CAADE       -      Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat (national debt
agency)
CCCE        -      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EAP         -      Environmental and Resettlement Action Plan
EDF         -      European Development Fund
EdF         -      Electricite de France
EIB         -      European Investment Bank
Enerca      -      Energie Centrafricaine (national power utility)
ESIE        -      Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
FAC         -      Ponds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
IFAD        -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
HCPCD       -      HLut Commissariat A la Presidence Charge des Soci4t4s d'Etat et Soci
d'Economie Mixte
LPG         -      Liquified Petroleum Gas
MFEP         -     Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning
MEM          -     Ministry of Energy, Mines, Geology and Hydrology OPEC
OPEC        -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
(the OPEC Fund)
Petroca     -      National Oil Company
RN          -      Route nationale
SGEMGH      -      Secretariat General Energie, Mines, Geologie et
Hydraulique
SNE         -      Societe Nationale des Eaux (national water utility)
UNDP        -      United Nations Deveiopment Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to
CFAF 50. The FF is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS ............................    1
A.     The Economy .....      .. ........ ......... .   1
B.     Energy Resources and Consumption ...............     2
C.     Energy Sector Organization           .      .       4
D.     Energy Policy and Pricing            .      .5 
E.     Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
and Quality of Service             .       .        7
F.     Power Sector Development and
Investment Program .............................  7
G.     Enerca - The Implementing Agency        .     .     9
H.     Bank Role in the Energy Sector          .    .     20
II.   THE PROJECT              ......... .. ..... 21
A.     Project Objectives           .. .......      .    21
B.     Project Description ............... . .    21
C.     Project Cost ...............     .................... 22
D.     Project Financt ng Plan ......................... 23
E.     Project Implementation .... ....... ........ 25
F.     Environmental and Resettlement Aspets .........c 31
G.     Project Justification, Benefits, and
Risks ........... .........                        33
III.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM MNDATIONS .37
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
the Central African Republic in March 1988. The mission comprised Messrs. B.M.
Thiam (mission leader), H. Bliat (petroleum geologist), D. Butcher
(environmental scientist), M. Heitner (energy economist), and R. Skelton (power
engineer/financial anelyst). Ms. L. Leach (operations assistant) and C. de
Freitas provided analysis assistance. Secretarial assistance was provided by F.
Fabian.
This document has a restricted distkibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS - cont'd.
List of Annexes
1.1         Consumption of Petroleum Products
1.2         Current Electricity Tariffs
1.3         Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
1.4         Power and Energy Balance
1.5         TOR Ten-Year Power Master Plan Study for CAR
1.6         Enerca Organization Chart
1.7         Financial Projections
1.8         Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
1.9         TOR - Supply and Distribution Study of Petroleum Products
1.10        Operational and Financial Performance Indicators
2.1         Project Description
2.2         Project Cost Estimates
2.3         Project Financing Plan
2.4         Project Implementation Schedule
2.5         Procurement Arrangements
2.6         Estimated Credit Disbursements
2.7         Environment and Resettlement
2.8         Economic Analysis
2.9         Petroleum Exploration Componont
2.10        Documents Contained in the Project File
MAP:  IBRD NO.20694 - Central African Republic -
First Energy Project



- iii-
CENThAL APRICAN REPUBLIC
EN8RGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Government of the Central African Republic
Beneficiaries:
- Ministere de l'Energie des Mines, de la Geologie et de l'Hydraulique (MEM)
- Energie Centrafricaine (Enerca)
Amount: SDR 13.5 million (US$ 18.0 million)
Terms: Standard IDA, 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:
The Government will onlend most of the Credit (US$ 15.1 million) to Enerca at
the interest rate of 7Z (fixed rate) for 20 years including 5 years of grace
on repayment of - 'incipal. Enerca will assume the foreign exchange risk on
that amount of tee Credit.
Colenders:
A consortium of cofinanciers would provide about US$ 68.3 million equivalent
toward project costs.
Project Description:
In accordance with its objectives, the Project is comprised of five main
components:
(a)   construction of a stor&ge dam on the M'Bali river, including civil works,
resettlement of area population, as well as implementation of an environmental
protection program;
(b)   expansion of diesel generation capacity in Bangui and rehabilitation of
Enerca's main power system facilities;
(c)   institutional strengthening of Enerca and MEM, and training of Enerca
administrative and technical staff, both in CAR and abroad;
(d)   a petroleum exploration action plan; and
(e)   studies i.e. a tariff study, a petroleum pricing/distribution study including
a financial audit of Petroca's accounts, and the preparation of a power
generation/transmission development plan.
Project Benefits:
Benefits of the Project include improvements in the availability and quality
of service, as well as increased efficiency and productivity in both the power
and petroleum sectors. These benefits will result from both new policy



- iv -
actions to be taken under the Project and from direct investments which will:
(a)   commercialize the electric utility Enerca;
(b)   relieve current constraints on power generation in a least cost fashion and at
acceptable environmental impacts;
tc)   achieve cost reductions via substitution of costly fuel imports;
(d)   strengthen the electric utility Enerca through technical assistance and an
improved regulatory environment facilitated by the use of a performance
contract;
(e)   assist the Government in the rationalization of the petroleum sector -both
retail distribution and petroleum exploration.
For electric users in general, and the public at large, the improvement in the
quality and quantity of service received will be reflected in the gradual
elimination of self generation, and through expanded public use. Industrial
and commercial users will benefit from reduced production losses which have
often accompanied the prolonged service curtailments. For the Government,
benefits will accrue in the context of its ongoing structural adjustment
program which is aimed, inter alia, at revitalizing and restructuring the
public enterprise sector and reducing its current heavy financial burden on
the national budget.
Proiect Riskst
Risks associated with the Project relate not only to physical construction
activities,but also to project execution and financing. Special measures
either have already been taken and/or will be undertaken during project
implementation to minimize these risks; the risks are manageable, and do not
materially affect project justification. The Project's principal risks are:
(a)   M'Bali dam civil works. Risks of cost overruns and schedule delays are being
minimized by: (i) an early construction start to take advantage of seasonal
weather variations (ii) the advantages of one turn-key contract for the main
civil works portion of the project; and (iii) the establishment of a special
project implementation unit-Mission M'Bali- within Enerca.
(b)   Environmental/health risks. The creation of the M'Bali reservoir brings with
it the risk of bilharzia (schistosomiasis) for people living nearby or to
those frequently carrying out activities around the shore line of the lake.
This risk is being minimized by specific measures to be undertaken under a
comprehensive Environmental Action Plan.
(c)   Risk of dam failure. This risk is being minimized by keeping professional
responsibility for dam safety with one firm and submitting engineering work to
independent review by a panel of experts. Furthermore, project covenants
provide for the periodic inspection of the dam.
(d)   Risk of improper execution by Enerca. Risks concerning the capdbility of
Enerca to implement a project of this size in a timely, coordinated manner and
to achieve performance targets with respect to its own operations are being
addressed b7: (i) use of a special project unit to manage the physical aspects
of the project so as to permit Enerca management more time to



concentrate on institutional strengthening aspects of the project; and (ii)
fielding a team of full-time technicai assistants to fill key posts, including
line positions where deemed necessary.
A. ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Foreign      Total
US$ Million Equiv.             as Z of       as Z of
Item                            Local   Foreign   Total       Total      Base Costs
Power Sector
Generation:
M'Bali                      5.0       27.3    32.3       84.5         55.2
Other                       0.2        7.7     7.9       98.1         13.5
Transmission rehabilitation    0.4         0.6      1.0      60.0          1.7
Distribution rehabilitation    0.7         6.7      7.4      90.2         12.6
Institutional Strengthening:
Technical assistance &      0.5        4.4     4.9       89.8          8.4
training
Studies                     0.1        0.7     0.8       87.5          1.4
Vehicles/office equipment    0         1.7     1.7      100.0          2.9
Petroleum Sector
Technical assistance            0.2        1.9      2.1      90.5          3.6
Studies                         0.0        0.4     0.4      100.0          0.7
Total Base Cost                    7.1      51.4      58.5                 100.0
Contingencies:  Physical         0.6       4.3      4.9
Price          0.3        5.9     6.2
Refinancing of PPA                -        0.8      0.8
Total Project Cost                 8.0      62.4    70.4
Interest during construction   5.3          -      5.3
Total financing required          13.3      62.4    75.7
1/ Columns may not foot due to rounding.
2/ Exchange rate of CFCA 305/1$US
Financing Plan:
(in million US$)
- IDA                              18.0
- African Development Fund         14.6
- Kuwait Fund                        6.9
- CCCE                             13.3
- FAC (French Aid)                   4.8
- ABEDAIOPEC Fund                   8.0
- Others                            2.7
- Government/Enerca                  7.4
Total          75.7



-vi-
Estimated Disbursements
(in million US$)
IDA FY     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
Annual      1.3       4.8       3.6      4.5       2.4      1.4
Cumulative  1.3       6.1       9.7     14.2      16.6     18.0
Rates of Returns
For the hydroelectric storage dam, an equalizing discount rate (EDR) of
20.2Z was :alculated, compared to the thermal alternative. For the
entire rroject, an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 14.6X was
estimated, using tariffs as a proxy for future benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 7485-CAR
Map: IBRD No. 20694 - Central African Republic - First Energy Project.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
I. THS ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
A. The Economy
1.01 The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country in the heart
of Africa with a population of some 2.6 million. With a per capita income of
only US$290 (1986), it belongs to the group of least developed countries.
Agriculture, including forestry, is the mainstay of the economy and is
estimated to employ four fifths of the population. The main cash crops, coffee
and cotton, are produced mostly by smallholders using rudimentary cultivation
methods. On the other hand, despite the large potential, timber production is
declining due to inadequate incentives and a present unfavorable exchange rate
resulting in limited investments. Mining for diamonds and gold are important
activities - production is dominated by artisans digging alluvial fields. The
manufacturing sector is at an embryonic stage and comprises agricultural
processing industries, textile, food and beverages, and other light industries.
CAR's large area (about 620,000 km2), its low population density, and its
remoteness from the sea make transportation difficult and costly; this
represents a considerable impediment to CAR's exports. Furthermore, import
substitution activities have had modest results given the small size of the
domestic market for most goods, and the fact that protecting infant industries
from unrecorded imports has proven difficult.
1.02 Following years of poor economic management characterized by uncontrolled
growth in the public expenditures, unsound investments, and a large expansion
of irefficient public enterprises, the Government initiated in the 1980's a
bold adjustment program supported by the DMF, the World Bank and major
bilateral donors. Important features of the program have been the promotion of
exports and the reduction of public deficits. The results of these efforts have
been mixed, and were further affected by the drop over the past two years in
the prices of CAR's major export commadities (expressed in US$ terms, further
exacerbated by the decline of the US$ in relation to the CFAF). With the
support of the first Structural Adjustment Credit in 1986,1 the Government took
courageous trade and price liberalization decisions, and embarked on a program
to reduce the size of the public sector and state enterprises. A second
Structural Adjustment Credit has recently been approved and will enable the
Government to continue its growth oriented policies. An important objective of
the program is the rehabilitation of state enterprises with potential, the
liquidation of others, and the privatization of those where the private sector
could display interest and contribute to the efficiency of the enterprise. The
proposed Energy Project is consistent with the objectives of the adjustment
program, having as important goals the technical and financial rehabilitation
of the power utility Enerca, and the introduction of greater economic
efficiency in the petroleum sector.
1   Cr. A023-CA of USS 30 million.



-2-
B. Energy Resources and Consumption
1.03 Resources. Data on energy resources in CAR are hard to get as no
systematic effort has been madp to date to take stock of the country's energy
potential. A proposed Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment is expected to address this
question in depth. In this respect, the petroleum exploration promotion
component of the proposed Project will help establish CAR's petroleum
potential.
1.04 The Central African Republic is well endowed in forest resources. A
distinction is usually made between the areas covered with trees, those covered
with sparse trees and vegetation ("wooded savannas") and the dense humid
forests in the South West of the country which cover 4 million ha., or 6Z of
the total land area. The latter area is the only one which is under commercial
exploitation. 'While some degradation has taken place in the past 30 years,
CAR's forestry resources are among the richest in Africa, and timber is one of
the main exports.
1.05 No inventory of CAR's hydroelectric resources has ever been made, but
they are estimated in the hundreds of HW essentially in the Oubangui river
basin covering the southern half of the country. The main impediment to the
development of these resources is the lack of markets, outside Bangui, which
can be supplied economically from hydroelectric sites. The installed
hydroelectric capacity is run-of-the-river and amounts to 18.65 HW, of which
only 3.6 MW is presently considered firm capacity on account of lack of :torage
for regulation, a constraint which will be remedied under the proposed Project.
1.06 It has been recognized since the mid-1950's that the area covering
southern Chad and northern CAR has interesting hydrocarbon prospects.
Geophysical work started in the 1960's and in 1973 when a consortium of oil
companies concluded an exploration agreement for an area of 150,000 km2 over a
five-year period. The agreement was extended twice for five-years - in 1978
and 1983.2 Following an aeromagnetic survey and several seismic surveys, one
well was drilled in 1986 which had indications of hydrocarbons, but was not
commercial. The consortium, in accordance with the agreement, has now
relinquished all its areas. Considering that: (i) all three wells drilled in
Southern Chad in essentially the same geological environment were discoveries;
(ii) the large size of the area considered to have potential and (iii) the
scope of exploration done to date, the hydrocarbon potential of CAR remains to
be established. Since even a relatively small discovery could make a
considerable difference for CAR if suitably located in relation to the market,
promotion of acreage to the international oil industry remains an important
priority for the energy sector. Thus, a resumption of petroleum exploration is
2     The consortium was initiated by Conoco (US), as operator, and Shell
(U.K./Netherlands); Chevron and Esso (U.S.) joined in shortly
thereafter. Following the last extension of the exploration agreement
(1983), only Esso and Shell remained, the former being the operator.



- 3 -
of high priority to the Government, and this issue will be addressed under the
Project through an effort encompassing &n examination of past exploration data,
the introduction of modern petroleum legislation, and the promotion of acreage
to the international oil industry.
1.07 There are indications of good potential for solar and wind energy in
certain areas of CAR but these renewable sources are unlikely to have
significant economic impact in the short term. These resources will be
reviewed by the proposed Energy Assessment (para 1.03).
1.08 Consumption. The main source of energy for as much as 952 of CAR's
population is wood and to a smaller extent, charcoaL. Wood collection,
conversion, and transport are activities run largely by the informal sector.
Detailed studies on consumption patterns, combustion efficiency, improvements
of stove designs etc. have not been carried out systematically on a national
scale; feasibility studies aimed at using sawmill wastes have been made, but
have not resulted in new ventures. On the assumption that the average
consumption of wood is 1 kg/capita/day, the national annual consumption can be
estimated at 310,000 toe (tons of oil equivalent), which compares to an
economically sustainable rate estimated at 6,500,000 toe. Thus, CAR, at least
at the national level, is not sffected by a deforestation problem, although
concerns have been expressed about the long term consequences of excessive
cutting around Bangui.
1.09 CAR's consumption of petroleum products has increased from 53.2 thousand
tons in 1983 to 66.9 thousand tons in 1986. Annex 1.1 shows consumption trends
in recent years. The most important product is diesel oil which accounts for
about 35-402 of the national consumption of petroleum products. It is mostly
used for transportation,3 but also by small industries and public power
generation (about 152 of total diesel oil consumption is for this purpose). The
next most important product is jet fuel (15-202 of the market), largely for
civil aviation, but also for the French air force based in CAR. Next comes
gasoline (about 202 of the market) for transport. Kerosene (about 12Z of the
market) is used mostly in Bangui for cooking and lighting. The consumption of
fuel oil is small reflecting the small size of the modern industrial base (two
breweries and a textile mill). Liquified petroleum gas (LPG) is used in very
small quantities mostly by the upper-bracket households and restaurants. In
all, consumption of oil products is largely in Bangui, and mostly by the upper
income groups and a few industries.
1.10 The power market is particularly small, even when compared to other
African countries. Enerca, the national power utility, serves some 7,200
connections in Banagui, and another 800 in 12 provincial centers. Bangui
accounts for more than 99Z of Enerca's energy sales. A distinction is made
between low voltage and medium voltage customers; the low voltage market (abouL
half of energy sales in Bangui) comprises households, small commercial
establishments, government offices and public lighting. Access to electricity
3    The barges carrying diesel oil to Bangui account for some 202 of
the national consumption of the product.



- 4 -
is largely confined to upper in:ome households.4  The present cost of
electricity in CAR, together with low income levels, are major constraints in
expanding access to electricity outside of Bangui and/or to geographical areas
not supplied with low cost hydropower.
1.11 Medium voltage sales represent about 1? of the number of connections hut
nearly 50Z of kWh sales. One finds in this category the breweries, the textile
mill, the water utility (Soci6te Nationale des Eaux - S!E) and hotels. In view
of the shortage of firm generating capacity in the dry season, and the
consequent load sLedding program, the use of captive generating plants has
increased in recent years, particularly by commercial and industrial consumers.
The overall extent of such use is presently unknown and is under investigation
by Enerca.
C.   Energy Sector Organization
1.12 The Ministry of Energy, Mines, Geology and Hydrology (MEM) is in charge
of formulating national energy policies, and supervising their implementation.
MEM is essentially set up in two Departments, one for energy, and one for
mines. Each of the two activities is handled by a director who reports to the
Secretary General. The Secretary General, in turn, reports to the Chief of
Staff ("Chef de Cabinet") who, in turn, reports to the Minister. The Ministry
is critically short of competent staff to assume ita functions effectively,
particularly considering the range of expertise required to deal with complex
technical matters, institutional development and financial problems.
1.13 Petroca, the national petroleum distribution company, is 752 owned by the
Government and 25Z by bix foreign oil companies. In 1980, the Government
entered into a contract with TOTAL (France) which, for all practical purposes,
entrusted it with the management of Petroca.5 The agreement furthermore
provides that Petroca will be in charge of all imports and distribution of
petroleum products in CAR. Petroca has been managed by a CAR national since
October 1987, who is assisted by three expatriates (deputy General Manager,
Directors for Finance and Operations). Petroca's staff numbers 460, which is
high considering the relatively small scope of operations.
1.14 Power generation, transmission and distribution come under the
responsibility of Enerca, the national power utility, and the main beneficiary
of the proposed Project. Enerca's activities are reviewed in section G below.
4  The number of low income households (i         ose consuming less than 100
kWh/month) is below 3,000. They account ror less thian 5Z of Enerca's low
voltage energy sales in Bangui.
5  Until  1986,  Petroca was  named TOCAGES  (TOTAL  Centrafricaine  de
Gestion).



- 5 -
1.15 Responsibility for traditional energy resources and their development is
divided between the Ministries of Agriculture, of Forestry, and Rural
Development.
D.    Energy Policy and Pricin
1.16 The political events of the 1970's in CAR caused considerable damage to
the petroleum and power sectors. The main institutions, Petroca's predecessor
and Enerca, were poorly managed, did not keep adequate financial records, and
lacked technical expertise. Ever since the early 1980's, an effort has been
initiated to rehabilitate the institutions, transfer skills to nationals, and
implement policies more responsive to the needs. However, the lack of expertise
has proven to be a major handicap, so that much remains to be done to
understand fully the problems of the sector and articulate appropriate policies
in the energy field.
1.17 Oil produ'ct prices are established by the Government on the basis of a
posted c.i.f. Matadi (Zaire) price6 to which fixed margins are added for
handling and river transport to Bangui, storage and distribution, and taxes.
Presant prices for the main products are as follows:
Table 1.1: PRICES OF OII. PRODUCTS (US$IBBL)
Gasoline    Jet Fuel    Kerosene   Diesel
c.i.f. Matadi                 24.78        23.44        23.44    22.94
Handling and Trans.           18.88        19.67        19.66    20.45
Distrib. Margin               37.24        27.83        31.30    29.73
Taxes                        117.85        51.15         5.09    85.88
Total                   198.75       122.09       79.50   159.00
Table 1.1 calls for a number of commentst (i) oil products, except for
kerosene, are heavily taxed; (ii) the price of kerosene is maintained at
relatively low levels on social grounds (it is used by low income households
for cooking and lighting, mostly in Bangui); (iii) handling and transportation
costs from Matadi to Bangui result in a 752-90Z increase over and above the
African coast prices; and (iv) distribution margins are particularly high
(USc66-90/gallon).
1.18 The landlocked position of the country explains only partly the high cost
of petroleum products in CAR. Procurement of oil products is handled by the
national oil company Petroca, which usually relies on its foreign partners to
secure products. Once they reach the port of Matadi (Zaire), products are
handled by a chain of subcontractors (storage, transport etc.), each exercising
a de facto monopoly over the service provided. A study carried out in 1983 by
an outside consultant concluded that the non-competitive procurement system
resulted in CAR having to pay a premium for its oil imports, so that one can
6 The difference between the actual price and the pre-established price
accrues to the Stabilization Fund. Presently the pre-established price
is about double the c.i.f. price so that the Stabilization Fund is a net
revenue earner for the Treasury.



- 6 -
anticipate that a more competitive environment will result in lower prices.7
This issue will be addressed under the proposed Project through a study aimed
at analyzing the present procurement and distribution procedures, identifying
alternatives, and recommending more efficient arrangements.
1.19 Little data are available about wood and charcoal prices which most of
the time are not traded as such. These will be reviewed in the proposed Energy
Assessment (para 1.03).
1.20 Regarding the electricity tariff, Enerca maintains separate rates in
Bangui, and the 12 provincial centers; the rates, last increased in May 1986,
appear in Annex 1.2. In Bangui, for low voltage customers, three declining
block rates are in effect (lighting, electric motors and mixed) based on
subscribed demand (the minimum is 3 kW) and hours of use. Special rates are in
effect for public lighting and water heating at night. For medium voltage
customers, there is a demand charge and an energy charge. The low voltage rate
was perhaps appropriate when there was a surplus of hydroelectricity and,
therefore, the short term marginal cost of a kWh was virtually nil.0 At
present, during the dry season (January-June), some 40Z of the generation is
thermal-based (as opposed to less than 52 in the rainy season), due to a
shortage in generating capacity, a severe load shedding program is thus in
effect during this period. As a result, the short term marginal cost is
cor"tderably higher than any of the rates in effect. Furthermore, there is no
special surcharge for thermal generation in the dry season9 to reflect the
considerable difference in the cost of supply. In the provincial towns, a flat
rate is in effect which is also below the marginal cost of power generation.
As a first corrective measure (phase I), it was agreed under the proposed
Project to abolish the declining block rates, and to introduce a fuel surcharge
during the dry season. Submission of an overall tariff adjustment proposal
based on these principles was a condition of negotiations. Implementation of
such a tariff adjustment acceptable to the Association is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
1.21 The fundamental weaknesses of the electricity tariff, both in terms of
levels and structure, are to be addressed in a detailed (phase II) tariff study
(scheduled for early 1989) proposed under the Project which will, inter-alia,
establish the long run marginal cost of supply in Bangui and the isolated
systems. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the results of the
study will be submitted to the Association for its review, by June 30, 1989 and
the recommendations agreed upon will be implemented promptly.
7 Cement imports were deregulated recently with the immediate result of a
25Z drop in its price.
8 Another promotional activity of Enerca, abandoned only recently, was to
rent  to  its  clientele  electrical  appliances,   particularly   air
conditioners.
9 In all likelihood, this has resulted in distortions in energy use and
particularly the utilization of electricity instead of wood and charcoal for
water heating and for baking. The subject should be studied further within
the framework of the planned Energy Assessment.



E. Existing Electricity Supply Facilities and Quality of Service
1.22 The city of Bangui and its suburbs are supplied by two hydro stations:
Boali 1 and Boali 2, with a total installed capacity of 18.65 MW, located about
80 km from the city. In addition, there is a diesel generating station, with
an installed capacity of 11.84 MW, located within the city. The
characteristics of the generating units of these plants are shown in Annex 1.3.
1.23 Both hydro stations are run-of-the-river facilities that utilize the
resources of the M'Bali river. Hydro output has been reduced to 3.6 MW in
recent years due to a prolonged period of drought. Enerca has had to
supplement supplies through costly diesel generation. One of the five 1.75 MW
generating units of Boali 1 is at present out of service due to foundation
problems. Also the high pressure penstocks of Boali 2 leak and require repair.
Rehabilitation/repair of the hydro facilities are underway with financing from
CCCE . The diesel generating units are all of high or medium speed, and some
are more than 10 years old. The diesel station is in a relatively good working
condition; it has been reasonably maintained.
1.24 The power generated by the hydro plants is transmitted to Bangui by two
single circuit lines - one built and operated at 63 KV and the other built for
110 KV but operated at 63 KV. The first has been seriously damaged and remains
out of service. Both lines require important rehabilitation which is proposed
to be financed under the Pro4ect. The characteristics of these lines are shown
in Annex 1.3.
1.25 Primary distribution in Bangui is at 15 KV. Circuit length totals 140 km
of which 58X is underground. Primary distribution lines feed the low voltage
system (380/220v.) through about 180 distribution transformers, totalling about
45 MVA, of which half belong to Enerca and the other half to consumers.
Abnormal voltage drops and energy losses are experienced (about 20-25X losses)
due to bottlenecks and saturation of the distribution system. A study to
rehabilitate this system has been completed under financing from the African
Development Bank, and a rehabilitation plan has been formulated; the initial
stage of its implementation will be to be financed under the Project.
1.26 In addition to electrical services provided in Bangui, Enerca is
responsible for the operation of 12 isolated provincial centers involving small
diesel generating units totaling about 5 MW. These rural installations are not
reliable, not financially self-supporting, and result in a continuing cash
drain (see discussion in para 1.58 below).
F. Power Sector Development and Investment Program
1.27 Generation. Electricity demand projections developed by consultants in a
20 year power development plan, were reviewed and updated by IDA in agreement
with Enerca's management. During the near term, restrictions in supply are
expected, in spite of planned interim expansion of diesel generating capacity.
For the period 1988-90, a growth rate of 2.5X was therefore assumed. After the
commissioning of the M'Bali dam in late 1990 and the rehabilitation of Bangui's
distribution system, restrictions of power supply should be substantially
eliminated. The average annual growth rate is then expected to follow GNP
growth. Based on an annual GNP growth of 3.5?, au average yearly electricity
consumption growth of 4.51 is judged to be reasonable. Annex 1.4 shows the



power supply and energy balance for the period 1987-1997. This forecast
appears realistic but will be further reviewed within the framework of the
proposed Ten Year Power Generation and Transmission Development Plan (see para
1.30 below).
1.28 Due to the relatively small size of Enerca's power system compared to
power requirements of potential large consumers (cement plant or other
industries), the actual evolution of power demand may deviate significantly
from the above forecast. Given this circumstance, the power expansion program
for CAR should allow for economical adaptation to large changes of power
requirements. This could be achieved with the plased development of the hydro
potential of the H'Bali river subsequent to completion of the M'Bali dam and
reservoir. Four potentiall.y attractive generation expansion options, with
relatively short construction periods, include: (i) expansion of the existing
Boali hydro plants (project numbers Bl and B2); (ii) foot of the M'Bali dam
power plant (project B3); (iii) new station to utilize the difference between
regulated river flow (50 m3/sec) and the flow utilized by the existing Boali
station 2 units (project B4).
1.29 Preliminary economic studies of alternative generation expansion programs
were made by confultants for several combinations and sequences in the
construction of the above-mentioned projects. It appears that project B3 as
the first stage of construction presents certain advantages: (i) a relatively
short construction time and (ii) an improvement in power system reliability.
1.30  While construction of project B3 for operation no later than 1994 has
clear advantages, the decision on subsequent additions, i.e. expansion of the
Boali 2 station or the construction of a new station (project B4), requires
more study. Draft terms of reference for the preparation of a Ten-Year Power
Generation and Transmission Development Plan for CAR is shown in Annex 1-5 and
provides for the above-mentioned study. The proposed study will be financed
under the Project and would optimize the construction sequencing of future
hydro plants.
1.31 After 1994, hydro generation will be predominant in the electric system
of Bangui; relatively low cost electricity in this area could make extension of
Enerca's transmission system economically viable to serve some isolated
centers, p;esently supplied by diesels. The feasibility of such extensions
will also be studied in the development plan noted above.
1.32 Pending results of the study, a preliminary investment program to year
1997 was formulated to meet the load forecast and is summarized under Table 1.2



- 9 -
below. This program includes the power house at the foot of the M'Bali dam by
the end of 1993 (B3 project), followed by the expansion of Boali 2 (project B2)
in 1997 (see para 1.28).
1.33 Transmission. The carrying capacity of the existing power transmission
lines from the Boali hydro sites to Bangui would be adequate to transmit
forecasted system demand up to year 2005. Transmission losses would be
acceptable, provided that necessary reactive capacity is installed and thorough
rehabilitation is carried out. This is foreseen under the Project.
1.34 Distribution. A comprehensive study of the rehabilitation and expansion
requirements of the low and medium voltage distribution system serving the
Bangui area was prepared under financing from the African Development Bank (see
para 1.26). The preliminary conclusions of this study were reviewed and
discussed with Enerca's management, and subsequently a preliminary program
compatible with Enerca's financial and manpower resources was established for
implementation under the proposed Project. Investment requirements for
expansion of the distribution system based on the forecasted medium-term load
projection is shown under table 1.2 below.
Table 1.2: INVESTMENT PROGRAM (1991-1997)
(Estimate in Billions FCFA)
MW     Commissioning      Cost 10
Date
Generation
Power Plant H'Bali Dam (Project B3)  +10             1993             4.0
Replacement of thermal units            +5           1996             1.2
Boali 2 hydro station expansion        +10           1997             4.0
Distribution
Medium and low voltage lines         + 1.7 /yr.       NJA             2.6
distribution transformers,
protection and metering
equipment
Total                                           11.8
G. Enerca - The Implementing Agency
1.35   Background.  With an installed capacity of approximately 36 MW,
connections numbering below 8,000, and annual sales below US$9 million, Enerca
is a very small power utility, even by African standards. The interconnected
system serving the Bangui area accounts for more than 99Z of national
electricity sales. Like the rest of CAR's economy, Enerca has been affected by
10 At 1987 prices



- 10 -
the political turbulence of the 1970's; it is only in recent years that efforts
have been initiated to rehabilitate the utility, but much remains to be done in
virtually all areas of management and operations.
1.36 Legal Framework. Enerca was created in 1962, initially to take over the
facilities of the then-"concessionaire" ir. Bangui. It acquired progressively
the power facilities of other concessionaires, and was entrusted statutorily
with public power supply in the whole Republic through decree 68/048 of January
12, 1968; that decree also specifies that Enerca is a moral agency and enjoys
financial autonomy. While Enerca's statutes are still in effect, a number of
subsequent decrees, mostly related to the general operation of public
enterprises in CAR, have largely reduced its alttonomy, including in particular
the powers of its Board.
1.37 Currently, Board members are appointed by decree. Three members are
appointed on a personal basis: the Secretary of the President's Office (who is
also the Board's Chairman); the head of the National Debt Agency, CAADE; and, a
prominent bantcr. Ex-officio members of the Board include the chairman of the
Presidential Commission in charge of the Development and Organization of State
and Mixed Enterprises (referred to as HCPCD); the General Secretary of MFEP;
the General Secretary of the Ministry of Energy, Mines, Geology and Hydraulics
(MEM); the mayor of Bangui; and, a representative of the armed forces. The
General Manager acts as Board Secretary without voting powers. In addition, the
State Comptroller and the Financial Controller (a staff of the Ministry of
Finance, Economy and Planning who supervises the finances of Enerca on a full
time basis) both attend Board meetings as observers.
1.38 The Board of Directors meets about three times a year. It has restricted
powers as, for example, decisions related to accounts, budgets, and investments
are contingent on ratification (within two weeks) by the Minister of Energy
who, in turn, may refer certain decisions to the Cabinet (for instance tariff
revisions). The Board is only marginally involved in key personnel matters such
as staff appointments, salaries and promotions, as explained below. In
addition, contract awards come under the National Tender Invitation and Tender
Award boards1l whose chairman has Ministerial rank. Thus, the effective powers
of the Board have been gradually diluted by the creation of additional b;odies
whose main role is to monitor, supervise and in some cases decide on behalf of
public enterprises.
1.39 Like other parastatals in CAR, appointment cf the General Manager and his
deputy are by presidential decree. Senior staff are appointed by the Board upon
advice from HCPCD.12 While the Statates provide for a broad delegation of
authority to the General Manager in running Enerca's day-to-day affairs, his
real powers are severely curtailed in several ways: (i) personnel management is
11 Their compositions is fixed by decrees 87/020 and 87/142 both of May 25,
1987. The composition of the two boards is not identical.
12 Decree no. 87/203 of July 30 1987 spells out the procedures for the
appointments of senior staff of public enterprises.



- 11 -
outside his control for all practical purposes;13 (ii) the Financial Controller
who is an observer at the Board (para. 1.37) has to vet every expenditure
irrespective of size (although they are nornmally within the approved budget)
and his duties extend to non-financial matters, for instance to recruitment
policips; (iii) HCPCD monitors regularly, inter-alia, the financial performance
and requires occasional clarifications (HCPCD's role is defined as technical
supervision); and (iv) MEM is entrusted with policy matters and as a result
lays down guidelines. Under these circumstances, it is perhaps not surprising
that Enerca has had five General Managers in the past five years.
1.40 Based on a careful evaluation of the institutional framework in place,
the conclusion must be drawn that Enerca's performance is unquestionably
impeded by the complex framework laid down for the management of public
enterprises in CAR. The large number of decrees entrusting powers to various
bodies has resulted in legal entanglements which de not foster coordination and
efficiency. Moreover, political interference in Enerca's affairs has weakened
its management. Under the circumstances, the adoption of a new operating
framework for Enerca which will on the one hand give an adequate level of
autonomy to its management, and on the other hand cause its management to
become accountable to the State on the basis of performance, 'is considered
essential to rehabilitate the utility, restore staff morale and maximize the
use of scarce financial and human resources. Areas which are considered
essential include: (i) staff recruitment, salaries and benefits, and sanctions;
(ii) contract awards and management; and (iii) financial autonomy (within
agreed guidelines). The adoption of a performance contract ("Contrat- Plan")
appears to be, at least in the short run, the best policy to provide an
appropriate operating framework for Enerca. The submission of a draft
performance contract is a condition of credit effectiveness, and implementation
of such a contract, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
should take place by June 30, 1989.
1.41 Organization, Management, Staffing and Training. Enerca's organization
chart appears as Annex 1.6; the utility operates through four departments, each
headed by a Director, dealing with generation and transmission, distribution
and studies, customer relations, and finance and accounts. The four Directors
report to the Deputy General Manager who, in addition, controls directly the
personnel and legal functions. Considering its size and scope of activities,
this organizational framework appears adequate for Enerca except that the
planning function has been neglected. Therefore, a new planning department
supported by technical assistance is to be provided under the Project. This
Department will be responsible, with the support of consultants, for the
preparation of the Ten-Year Power Generation and Transmission Development Plan
(para. 1.30).
13 Relationships between employers and staff are regulated by a national
agreement, which except for minor amendments, goes back to December 17,
1959. Recruitment is carried out through the National Labor Board ("Office
National du Travail"). Promotions for middle-level staff are through a
Committee including representatives of MEM, the Civil Service, the Office
of Labor, the Financial Controller (para. 1.37 above), a staff
representative, together with the General Manager, his deputy and the head
of personnel.



- 12 -
1.42 The current General Manager and three Department Directors (out of four)
were appointed in mid-1987; they are assisted by seven professional
expatriates, mostly from Electricite de France, supporting the commercial,
financial, technical and training functions.14 In addition, two young
volunteers, sponsored by the French Government, are in charge of a training
school which was set up recently under FAC financing. It is premature to assess
the performance of the new managerial team; enusidering, however, their
motivation, and dedication to tackle the ser  Ls problems of the utility, there
are good grounds for optimism. In order to ensure that competent professionals
remain in charge and that turnover is not too frequent, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would make efforts to foster
stability and limit turnover in the senior management of Enerca.
1.43 Out of a total staff of 557 at end-1987, about 45 are professionals and
the balance, technicians and laborers. Enerca is over-staffed when compared to
other utilities15 in the region. This is due mostly to the liberal personnel
policies adopted in the 1970's, and possibly the small size of the utility.
Since 1981, however, Enerca's staff level has remained constant a result of the
Government's adjustment program. Enerca's policy is not to replace low-skill
laborers, as they leave or retire from the utility, but instead to recruit more
qualified technical staff.
1.44 Enerca is critically short of qualified local personnel in the middle
management levels, be they in operations, accounts or general management. A
comprehensive training program targeted to this group is considered essential
to upgrade the performance of the utility; this is to be addressed through on-
the-job training with the support of the expatriate staff, through the
technical training school (para. 1.42 above) which was recently set up, and
through scholarships to be provided under the Project to study electrical
engineering at the regional Inter-African Electricity College (ESIE) in
Abidjan. In order to ensure that Enerca's management continues to give this
issue adequate emphasis, at negotiations assurances were obtained that Enerca
will submit for the Association's review, not later than April 1 of each year,
an assessment of the results of the previous year's training program, together
with the program proposed for the current year, and that it will take into
account the Association's view prior to proceeding with its implementation.
These plans must provide for the phasing out of technical assistance in the
longer term.
1.45 Salary scales in the public sector of CAR have been effectively frozen
since 1981, when the country's stabilization program was initiated. As a
result of this policy, Enerca has not been able to attract enough local
qualified personnel; furthermore, staff in place cannot be motivated as
promotions have no financial consequence.16 Enerca is in the process of
appointing consultants, under CCCE financing, to review its manpower policies,
14 They are financed by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC).
15 For instance, only 18 connections per staff, compared to 90 in Ivory
Coast, 70 in Senegal and 35 in both Benin and Togo.
16 The present policies have lead to other anomalies - for instance staff
with 6 years experience are paid the same as beginners.



- 13 -
its career development plans and its training programs, as well as the
structure of salaries. The conclusions of the study, which will be available in
early 1989, will be reviewed in the context of government's general approach
towards parastatal personnel and salary policy, to be determined as part of
CAR's structural adjustment program.
1.46 Financial Aspects. Until 1969, Enerca obtained technical assistance from
the former foreign concessionaire, so that books were properly kept. During
1969-75, no accounts were produced. During 1979-82, accounts were produced but
not approved by the Board on account of alleged irregularities. In 1982, with
the support of CCCE, consulting firms assisted the utility: (i) to restructure
the accounting systems, set up the assets register and provide a valuation of
assets and stocks; (ii) to improve billing and collection, and set up data
processing systems; and (iii) to set up computer programs consistent with the
procedures articulated under (i) and (ii). While the overall results appear to
have been satisfactory, and annual accounts, in an acceptable form, have been
produced since 1984, problems remain mostly in connection with customer
accounts, and the inter-face of data processing with the accounting systems.
With the support of its technical advisers, Enerca has been able to achieve
some progress in the areas of cost accounting and budgetary control, but much
work remains to be done in those areas. Equipment and technical assistance to
strengthen Enerca's operations, particularly the billing function, are provided
for under the Project.
1.47 Accounts and Audits. Enerca's accounts are kept in accordance with the
Organisation de la Communaute Africaine et Malgache (uCAM) accounting code. Af
Enerca's accounts have never been audited, the reliability of the accounting
data remains to be ascertained. One acknowledged issue is that the Boali 2
power plant 17 is not included in Enerca's books so that revenues are
overstated in relation to the asset base, and the power plant is not
depreciated. As a result, the plant is Government-owned, with its debt service
met from the Government budget.  As there is no a priori justification for
these indirect subsidies to the power sector,18 the Association has requested
the actual transfer of Boali 2 from Government to Enerca as a condition of
credit effectiveness of the proposed Project; terms and conditions under which
this is to be made effective are further discussed below (see para 1.60).
1.48 Enerca does not have fully operational cost accounting and budgetary
control systems. However, a general balance is produced monthly, and cash is
controlled daily. Micro computers have been recer.tly introduced to Enerca and
the staff, with the help of the expatriates, is now designing and implementing
a system responsive to the requirements. Progress in this area will be
monitored during project implement"tion.
1.49 Until recently, Enerca did not revalue its fixed assets (the valuation
carried out in 1983 (para. 1.46) used historical cost data to restore the asset
17 The Boali 2 hydroelectric complex commissioned in 1976 is the largest
power plant in the country (10 MW).
18 For instance the plant does not produce economic benefits other than power
generation and only a small fraction of CAR's population has access to
electric power.



- 14 -
accounts). However, the utility has recently completed such a revaluation
applying industrial inflation indices to the 1983 assets base, with appropriate
adjustments for major assets commissioned after 1970. This is considered
satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Enerca would
revalue its assets periodically on a basis satisfactory to the Association.
1.50 Enerca does not have an internal auditor at present. However, as
explained above (paraa. 1.35 - 1.37), the accounting function, if anything, is
afflicted with an excessive number of controls, particularly those performed by
the Financial Controller appointed by the Minister of Finance. As a result,
introducing an additional control mechanism in the form of an internal auditor
might well be counterproductive at this stage. This issue will be re-examined
when the internal control systems to be implemented under the "contrat plan"
are submitted to the Association for review (para. 1.40). The objective is to
replace the present a-priori control systems - which are blocking the normal
operation of Enerca - with an a-posteriori control system based on approved
annual budgets and timely management reporting systems.
1.51 As already mentioned, Enerca's accounts have never been audited
externally.19 It has been asked to appoint auditors to audit the 1987
accounts, and sabmission of such audited accounts was a condition of
negotiations. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Enerca will
have its accounts audited annually by auditors satisfactory to the Association,
and that the audited accounts will be furnished to the Association not later
than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year. Financing for the audiL of the
1987 accounts was provided under the PPF, and for subsequent years, will be
provided under the proposed Project.
1.52 Insurance. Enerca carries a normal third party risk insurance for its
staff, vehicles and installations. In addition, its staff has insurance
coverage for accidents. Fixed assets are insured against fire and electrical
hazards, but for an amount which is considerably below replacement cost. The
utility is aware of the deficiencies in its present insurance coverage, and has
decided to commission a specialized risk management firm to examine its present
policies and make recommendations as appropriate. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the study will be submitted to the Association
not later than Tune 30, 1989, that the views of the Association will be taken
into account prior to implementing new insurance practices, and that the new
insurance policies will be implemented not later than October 1, 1989.
1.53   Recent Financial Performance.  Developing a meaningful assessment of
Enerca's financial performance in recent years is difficult given the financial
reporting deficiencies noted under paragraphs 1.46 and 1.47 above. As a result,
the comparative data noted under Table 1.3 below should be considered
tentative. Due emphasis will be given under the Project to rehabilitate Enerca
from a financial standpoint, and it is therefore anticipated that, during
project implementation, quality and reliability of data will improve.
19 Two "Commissaires aux Comptes" are appointed by the authorities to certify
Enerca's accounts, but the scope of their investigations is not nearly
comparable to a commercial audit.



- 15 -
1.54   Enerca's annual income statements for the period 1984-87 are summarized
in table 1.3 below:
Table 1.3: COMPARATIVE INCOiE STATEENTS
(US$ Millions}
1984     1985      1986  1987
GWh Sold                             57       59        62    66
Generation (GWh)
Hydro                              70       61        77    73
Thermal                             4       17        12    18
Total Revenues                      5.4      6.1       8.5    11.0
Operating Expenses
Fuel and Lube Oil                 0.9      3.4       3.2     4.5
Personnel                         1.4      1.3       1.6     1.9
Other                             1.3      1.4       1.6     1.5
Depreciation                      1.2      1.2       1.3     1.5
Total                          4.7       7.2       7.7     9.4
Other Charges                       0.6      0.3       1.8     1.7
Net Income                          0.1     (1.4)    (1.0)  (0.1)
M4id-year Exchange Rate             448      429       350    295
(FCFA/US Dollar)
Losses in the past three years reflect primarily poor hydro conditions. The
limited availability of hydroelectric power coupled with a tariff that does not
permit cost recovery of thermal-based energy, more than any other factors have
resulted in negative financial performance. Losses were also compounded by
lack of cost recovery in the 12 provincial centers.



- 16 -
1.55  Enerca's December 31, 1986 balance sheet is summarized bel        - under Table
1.4.
Table 1.4:  ENERCA DALANCE SHEET SU14MRY AT YEAR-END 1986
Million
CFAF    US$ a/  Percent
Current Assets
cash                               297      0.9         7
Accounts Receivable              3,086      9.6        73
Other                              460      1.4        11
Subtotal                     3,843      11.9        91
Less: Current Liabilities
State                           1,835       5.7        43
Other                           1,896       5.9        45
Subtotal                     3,731      11.6       88
Net Current Assets                    113      0.3         3
Net Fixed Assets                    4,131     12.8        97
Total Assets                    4,243      13.1       100
Represented by:
Long Term Debt                  2,967       9.2        70
Equity                          1,276       4.0        30
Total Equity and L.T. Debt      4,243      13.1       100
a/ At exchange rate of US100 - CFAF 322
Enerca's balance cheet above is not fully representative of its financial
position and is distorted for the following reasons:
(a)   Net fixed assets are considerably understated, since Enerca
does not revalue its assets and since the Boali 2 power
station is not reflected (para. 1.47).
(b)   Accounts receivable were equivalent to nearly 14 months of
sales as of end-1986. The main delinquent customers were t'ae
State, State Enterprises such as the water utility (SNE)
(about CFAF 1 billion at end 1986), the postal service (OCPT)
(about CFAF 250 million) and 130 large domestic and
commercial customers (about CFAF 0.5 billion all together).
1.56 As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has in
recent years gradually increased budgetary provisions for the payment of its
electricity bills. Yet these are still insufficient since, as of December
1987, government delinquencies represented more than one year of consumption.
Regarding State Enterprises, these arrears were of the order of 2 years as of
the same date. In view of the severe problems of the economy at this juncture,
a quick financial settlement cannot be anticipated realistically. At most, one
may expect some rescheduling and payment of present electricity use. Therefore,



- 17 -
the submission of a plan, satisfactory to the Association, to clear the arrears
of the State and State Enterprises as well as ensuring payment of their current
bills when due was made a condition of negotiations.   During negotiations
assurances were given that Enerca: (i) will be authorized unequivocally to
interrupt service to a customer - public or private - whose arrears exceed 3
months of consumption and be permitted to recover interest on overdue amouaits
before reconnecting such customers; and iii) will provide within one month of
the end of each quarter, starting with the quarter ending September 30, 1989, a
statement indicating arrears by each category of consumer, as well as a
description of measures taken during the quarter to reduce arrears.
1.57 Financial Outlook. 1inancial projections for the period FY 1988-1991
appear at Annex 1.7. Supporting assumptions appear at Annex 1.8. Enerca's
financial performance in the coming years will depend critically on the
utility's ability to reduce arrears to agreed targets. This will be a
particularly difficult task despite the remedial actions envisaged under the
proposed Project. That is why the financial projections assume - and the
recommended tariff adjustments are predicated on - a relatively modest
improvement in the control of accounts receivable, i.e. reducing the average
age of accounts outstanding of 484 days at year-end 1987 to an average age of
150 days by 1992. Such an assumption appears realistic under the
circumstances.
1.58 Enerca's rural centers represent a considerable financial loss to the
utility. Tariffs (which are already higher by some 3002 over those for the
Bangui grid) do not yield revenues enough to cover even the cost of fuel, let
alone support fixed costs of capital. While the Government has been financing
the initial capital requirement of these undertakings, its actual payments -
through compensation against taxes due - have often been made years after
Enerca incurred the corresponding outlays. Enerca plans to add a new rural
center and rehabilitate une in alternate years, although their economic
justification is by no means certain and will need to be established.  In case
such investments are made on social (as opposed to economic) grounds,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will: i)
continue to provide grants to Enerca to cover the capital costs of new .ural
centers and compensate Enerca when outlays are incurred; and (ii) from January
1, 1989 onwards, provide Enerca with an annual financial compensation
equivalent to their operating losses (before depreciation) including
rehabilitation/upgrading costs.
1.59 A major factor affecting Enerca's financial performance is the
availability of hydro generation. As the cost of alternative diesel energy is
high, despite a partial tax exemption, (US$3.70/gallon), any increase in
thermal output has adverse financial implications. A fuel surcharge during the
dry season (para. 1.20) would address this problem to some extent. Another
measure to improve financial performance would be to reduce unaccounted-for
losses of electricity. In recent years these have been of the order of 25-30%.
This issue is being addressed in part under the investment program (para.
1.33), which provides for capacitors in Bangui (to reduce transmission and
distribution losses), and Enerca's plan to improve the management of its
billing systems (para. 1.46). The financial 'orecast assumes a reduction of
unaccounted-for electricity losses to approximately 20X by 1991 which is
realistic and achievable.



- 18 -
1.60 In Enerca's financial ouclook, a distinction is made between the 1988-91
and 1992-93 periods. The first period is characterized by power shortages and
continued use of high cost thermal-generated power. As this period coincides
with the construction period of the M'Bali dam, a higher level of revenues will
be required to finance local costs. Pt the second period, the cost of thermal
generation decreases considerably - although this is offset partially by
increases in interest charges and depreciation provisions. Taking as an
objective a self-financing ratio of 15-202, which is modest but adequate taking
into account the size of the investment program and that of the utility, Enerca
would have to earn 8% on its net revalued assets during 1988-1991. Therefore,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Enerca's rates will be such that
they will enable the utility to earn at least 8 on its net revalued assets
from FY 1991 onwards. This in turn implies that an average increase in rates
of 312 would be required over the period 1988-1991, i.e., 45 FCPA/kWh in 1988
to 59 FCFA/kWh in 1991. To minimize consumer rate ahock caused by a single
increase in rates of this magnitude - and taking note that increasing rates
when the quality of service is poor may be counter productive - it has been
proposed that separate smaller annual increases be made, i.e., 1OZ in each of
1989 and 1990, followed by an 8? increase in 1991. Financial objectives of
internal cash generation could be achieved with such annual rate increases.
However, it would require that Enerca be permitted to defer mak5ng principal
and interest payments for the Boali 2 project until 1991 when cost reduction
benefits from M'Bali dam are available. Introduction of a tariff increase
contributing to realizing these financial objectives is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
1.61 In view of the already high indebtedness on the basis of the utility,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that Enerca will not incur new
long term debt if, as a result, its projected debt service coverage ratio drops
below 1.5.
1.62 Based on the above assumptions and tariff ueasures, and further assuming
that the government's debt service obligation for Boali 2 are transferred to
the utility with cash payments for these beginning in 1991, Enerca's 1988-91
financing plan can be summarized as shown in table 1.5 below:



- 19 -
Table 1.5: FINANCING PLAN 1988-1991
FCFA billion  US$ million    Percent
Source
Operating Income            1.0             3.2           3.9
Depreciation                6.9            22.6          27.2
Internal Sources            7.9            25.8          31.1
Less:
Debt Service                  2.9             9.5          11.4
Increase in W/C              (1.3)           (4.2)         (5.1)
Other                         1.6             5.1           6.2
Subtotal                    3.2            10.4          12.5
Internal Cash Generation           4.7           15.4          18.6
Uses
Investment Program               25.3            83.0         100.0
Financing Gap                    20.6            67.6          81.4
Financed by:
Borrowing                      18.5            60.7          73.1
Contributions                   2.1             6.9           8.3
Total                        20.6            67.6          81.4
As indicated in the above table 1.5, the tariff adjustments would enable Enerca
to finance from internal sources some $15.4 million or 18.6Z of its $83 million
investment program which is reasonable under the circumstances. Borrowing,
including the on-lending by Government of the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit, would cover 73.1Z of its investments, the balance of 8.3Z being
financed by government contributions and deposits made for new service
applications.
1.63 Under the above described assumptions the financial performance is
projected as shown in table 1.6 below:



- 20 -
Table 1.6: FORECAST FINANCIAL PERFIRWANCE
(FCFA Million)
Actual          Pro e
FY Ending December 81                   TI- 1 1      8IFT    i9L0 199UA 1992 -993
Operating revenues          826  8894 4B058 404 e2so9  iO  7433
Operating expenses                       2727 8896 8975 4492 8982 4086 4942
Operating income                          626 (601)  82  112 1287 1914 2491
Not Income                               226 (1022) (608) (777)  61 (384)  83
Not Internal funds generated              814  38  1401 1101 1828  993 1116
Rate of return (U)                         2 (4.6) 0.7  1.0  7.4  8.4 11.6
Not Internal cash generation (X invest prog)    1s    9   22   15   32   26   41
Operating ratio (X)                       84  116   98   98   76   71  6e
Current ratlo (times)                     1.7  1.9  1.6  1.1  1.0  0.9  1.1
Debt service coverage ratio (ttims)      4.1  2.9  8.6  8.1  2.8  1.4  1.6
D-bt/D*bt+EquIty (M)                       48   67   70   76   76   73   89
Receivables (days)                       484  46b  827  259  208  164  137
Average rovenues billed (FCFA/kwh)        46   46   60  65   69   66   70
Fuel * O&M cost produced (FCFA/kwh)       25   26   25   28   18   15   1S
H. Bank Role in the Energy Sector
1.64 The Bank has made no loan/credit to CAR's energy sector, and the proposed
Project is IDA's/Bank first operation in the sector. The Energy Assessment
under UNDP/IBRD auspices planned for FY 90 is expected to contribute greatly to
overall sector knowledge as well as provide a basis for the identification of
national energy priorities.
1.65 Rationale for IDA Involvement. At the Government's request, IDA has
played a leading role in formulating and coordinating co-financing for this
broad-based energy project, which was initially conceived as a more limited
project confined to constructing the H'Bali dam. Following IDA's initial
review of the energy sector, the institutions therein, and sector regulation,
it concluded that far reaching reforms were required for proper development of
the sector and to ensure that: (i) only highest priority energy investments are
being implemented and (ii) energy sector policies and institutions are being
reformed in conjunction with physical investments, and (iii) that the hydro-
electric scheme should only proceed after its ecological and resettlement
implications had been thoroughly examined and an appropriate environmental
action program had been defined. Government concurred and asked IDA to assist
it in formulating appropriate sector policies. In this first energy project IDA
has helped define and design specific action plans for institutional and
management improvement along with an improved regulatory framework through, for
example, the proposed performance contract between Government and Enerca. IDA
has been involved in the adjustment program of CAR since 1986. This program
calls for, inter alia, improvement in the performance of the parastatal sector
as well as, more generally, greater efficiency in the use of the country's
resources. The proposed Project provides an appropriate opportunity for IDA to
support an extension and deepening of this adjustment process focussed on the
energy sector and its parastatal agencies, in particular Enerca.
1.66 The key objectives of IDA's support to the adjustment of CAR's energy
sector ares (a) to assist the Government in defining a comprehensive energy
sector development strategy for the long term; (b) to plan for the rational
development of national energy resources including hydroelectricity and



- 21 -
hydrocarbons; (c) to assist Enerca and Petroca in developing investment
programs that meet energy demands at lowest costs to the economy and at
acceptable levels of quality of service; (d) to ensure that these enterprises
reduce their financial burden on public resources by contributing reasonable
portions to the financing requirements of their investment programs; and (e) to
remove energy price distortions by setting pricing structures based on marginal
costs and thereby improve the allocation efficiency in the economy.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
2.01 The project constitutes a first step towards a full restructuring of
CAR's energy sector which will take a number of years to accomplish. As such,
the project supports the introduction of a number of immediate reforms as well
as preparatory work for reforms to be implemented in the future. The immediate
objectives of the project are: (a) to reduce CAR's dependence on costly oil
imports by harnessing the full hydroelectric potential of the M'Bali river; (b)
to make the power sector financially sound by introducing appropriate tariff
adjustments, eliminating subsidies and adopting more stringent action on
receivables; and (c) to strengthen Enerca's management by providing it with an
adequate level of autonomy, training its staff, and creating a Planning
Department. The project's longer term objectives, for which preparatory work
will be started in the next 6-12 months, are: (d) to rationalize the energy
sector's overall pricing policy covering both levels and structure of power
tariffs as well as petroleum wholesale and retail prices; (e) to improve the
efficiency of petroleum procurement and distribution in the country; and, (f)
to establish an appropriate environment for promoting private investment in
petroleum exploration in CAR. In addition, the project will lay the groundwork
for the Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment to be undertaken in FY 1990. Policy action
emanating from this Assessment would be supported under a subsequent operation.
B. Project Description
2.02 In accordance with its objectives, the project is comprised of seven main
components: (i) construction of a storage dam on the M'Bali river, including
civil works, resettlement of area population, as xiell as implementation of an
environmental protection program; (ii) an expansion of diesel generation in
Bangui and the rehabilitation of Enerca's main power system facilities
including hydro generation, transmission and the distribution network in
Bangui; (iii) institutional strengthening of Enerca including investments in
its general facilities, (creation of a Planning Department, supply of tools,
office equipment, vehicles, laboratory equipment) and improvements in its
financial management, including audits of accounts; (iv) technical assistance
to Enerca and MEM; (v) training of Enerca administrative and technical staff,
both in CAR and abroad; (vi) a petroleum exploration action plan; and (vii)
studies i.e. a tariff study, a petroleum pricing/distribution study (see study
TOR in Annex 1.9) including a financial audit of Petroca's accounts, and the
preparation of a power generation/transmission development plan. A more



- 22 -
detailed description of the principal components of the project is at Annex 2.1
and illustrated in Hap IBRD 20694; the environmental protection and
resettlement programs are further described at Annex 2.7, and the petroleum
exploration component in Annex 2.9.
C. Project Cost
2.03 As indicated in table 2.1 below, the estimated total cost of the project,
including provisions for physical and price contingencies as well as interest
during construction, is CFAF 23.1 billion (US$ 75.7 million). Its foreign
exchange component excluding IDC amounts to US$ 62.4 million. Full details of
the cost of the project are given in Annex 2.2.
2.04 The local cost component of the project (excluding IDC, amounts to
USS 8.0 million) which is unusually low for a project of this nature due to
the fact that in CAR a high proportion of goods and services must be imported.
In particular, the major component of the project, the M'Bali dam requires
heavy construction equipment which comes from abroad and is operated mainly by
expatriates.
2.05     The cost estimate for construction of the H'bali dam is based on the
civil works contract. Other project costs reflect estimated e%rly 1988 prices
based on Enerca's experience with ongoing contracts and those signed for goods
under previous projects, with adjustments taking into account the actual trend
in international prices for equipment and in local prices for works in the CAR.
The project costs include 102 physical contingencies for civil works and
equipment. While this provision may appear low, it is nonetheless realistic
based on the extensive field investigation carried out. Foreign price
contingencies are based on estimated annual foreign cost increases of 14% from
1988 to 1990 and 72 thereafter. Local price contingencies reflect an estimated
annual increase in local costs of 52 in 1988-90 and of 4Z. thereafter. The
consulting services financed under the project amount to about 280 men-months
at an estimated average cost of US$12,000. Of these consulting services, 752
pertain to the petroleum sector component of the project and 252 to the power
sector component. The Project is exempt from payment of custom duties on
imported goods on the basis of the provisions of the Investment Code.



- 23 -
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY 1/
Foreign      Total
US$ Million Equiv.      2/  as 2 of       as 2 *f
Item                            Local   Foreign   Total       Total      Base Costs
Power Sector
Generation:
M'Bali                      5.0       27.3    32.3       84.5         55.2
Other                       0.2        7.7     7.9       98.1         13.5
Transmission rehabilitation    0.4         0.6      1.0      60.0          1.7
Distribution rehabilitation    0.7         6.7      7.4      90.2         12.6
Institutional Strengthening:
Technical assistance &      0.5        4.4     4.9       89.8          8.4
training
Studies                     0.1        0.7     0.8       87.5          1.4
Vehicles/office equipment    0         1.7     1.7      100.0          2.9
Petroleum Sector
Technical assistance            0.2        1.9      2.1      90.5          3.6
Studies                         0.0        0.4      0.4     100.0          0.7
Total Base Cost                    7.1      51.4      58.5                 100.0
Contingencies:  Physical         0.6       4.3      4.9
Price          0.3        5.9      6.2
Refinancing of PPA                -        0.8      0.8
Total Project Cost                 8.0      62.4    70.4
Interest during construction   5.3          -       5.3
Total financing required          13.3      62.4    75.7
1/ Columns may not foot due to rounding.
2/ Exchange rate of FCFA 305/1 USS.
D. Project Financing Plan
2.06     The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 18.0 million (see the financing plan in
table 2.2), representing 26Z of the total project cost, would help finance the
M'Bali dam including related environmental and resettlement aspects, the
financial audits of Enerca, consulting services for the petroleum distribution
studies as well as technical assistance for the petroleum exploration
component. All of the IDA Credit amount, with the exception of US$ 2.9 million
for the petroleum sector component of the project, would be on-lent by the
Government to Enerca for 20 years at the prevailing IBRD rate, including 5
years of grace. Enerca would bear the foreign exchange risk on its share of the
Credit i.e. US$ 15.1 million. The execution of a satisfactory subsidiary
financing agreement between the CAR Government and Enerca is a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Enerca would generate sufficient internal funds to
finance a major share (US$ 7.4 million) of local costs, including interest
during construction, related to the power sector component of the project. The
Government and Enerca would assume responsibility for any cost overruns.
2.07 At the request of the Government, IDA has taken the lead in identifying



- 24 -
and coordinating the cofinancing of the proposed project. At a co-financiers
meeting in late August 1988, a fi.nancing plan was agreed upon. In addition to
IDA, financing for the construction of the M'Bali dam has been secured from the
ADF, the ABEDA, the OPEC Fund and the Kuwait Fund, while CCCE has agreed to
finance the services of the consulting engineer supervising the construction of
the dam. The diesel units, which are required to substantially reduce load
shedding during the dry season before commissioning of the M'Bali dam, will
also be financed by CCCE as will the rehabilitation of the existing hydro
plants and the rehabilitation of the transmission system. The financing of the
rehabilitation of the Bangui distribuition system has been secured from the
ABEDA and the OPEC Fund. Finally, FAC has agreed to continue its financing of
technical assistance to Enerca. Firm cofinancing arrangements for a total of
about US$ 50 million, are a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
Credit.
Table 2.2: PROJECT FThAKINO PLAN
(US Million)
Financing Requirements         I Million Equivalent     Main Project Components
Local    Foreign    Tota l
Project Cost                 8.0    e2.4        70.4
Interest during Construction J 5.8    -          6.3
Total            13.3    62.4         75.7
Einina  Soure
IDA                       2.8    16.2         18.0   Dam, EAP, Institutional
Strengthening, Petroloum
Sector
ADF                      0.8    13.8         14.6   Dam
CCCE (existing loans)    0.2      3.7         8.9   Goneration rehabilitation; studies
(now loans)         0.4      9.0         9.4    Diesel; engineering supervision
Kuwait Fund              0.4      6.G         6.9   Dam
ABEDA/OPEC                -       8.0         8.0   Distribution rehabilitation
FAC                               4.8         4.8   TA
EOF b/ (possibility               1.4         2.7    Environmental (highway diversion)
being explored)
Enerca/Government         7.4      -         7.4
Total    1i7I    62.4        _797r
==e
a/ Interest during construction on M'Bali project component, capitalized at onlonding rate of
7 .0%
b/ EDF Is envisioning financing petroleum Imports Into CAR of which the counterpart funds would
be nade available for project financing.
E.  Project Implementation
2.08 Status of Project Preparation and Execution. Project preparation has
advanced satisfactorily under a CCCE-financed hydro development, generation and
transmission rehabilitation study and an AfDB-financed power distribution
system rehabilitation/expansion study. In addition, an initial PPF of
US$300,000 helped finance preparation of the environment and resettlement
action plans, vr.ious financial studies and the availability of a panel of
experts for ':.e review of the design of the dam. The PPF amount was
subsequently increased to US$450,000 to finance the audit of Enerca's 1987
accounts as well as additional costs related to the preparation of the



- 25 -
environment and resettlement action plans. A third increase of the PPF has
been requested by the Government for a total of US$ 750,000 to finance
consulting services for the preparation of the petroleum exploration component
of the project and to continue preparation of the EAP. Project implementation
started in November 1988 with the mobilization of the contractor selected for
the construction of the dam main civil works. Reservoir filling is expected to
start on November 1, 1990 according to contractual arrangements, and completion
of the civil works contract is expected by June 30, 1991. An implementation
schedule for all project components is at Annex 2.4.
2.09    Responsibility for the implementation of the various project components
rests with the ultimate beneficiaries, i.e., the petroleum component will be
managed by MEM; the M'Bali dam and other power components will be with Enerca
management. For the responsibility for the M'Bali dam and other power
components, an appropriately staffed and equipped project unit "Mission M'Bali"
has been formed within Enerca. Key project implementation agreements reached
includes
(a)   the project unit reports directly to the Director General of
Enerca, and is physically located at the corporate
headquarters site;
(b    the project unit is headed by an experienced power (hydraulic)
engineer having over 10 years of professional experience including
some at project management level; no changes in the management of this
project unit are to be made without prior consultation with the
Association;
(c)   staffing of the project unit is to be built up using existing
Enerca staff assigned on a full time basis in accordance with
project implementation progress. Staffing will include, in
addition to the project manager, three assistant managers:
one resp'nsible for environmental aspects; one for civil
works; one for managing project costs including processing
invoices, arranging for loan withdrawals, managing revolving
funds,etc. Agreement was also reached on skill and
experience profiles for these assistant managers;
(d)   allocation of office space, acquisition of office equipment and
supplies, and the setting up of an adequately funded operating budget
for the project unit;
(e)   given the engineering complexities associated with the
relatively large scale hydraulic works, an independent panel
of experts will be used for oversight and quality control
over engineering and construction of the M'Bali dam. An
internationally recognized expert has been retained by the
Government for the purpose of coordinating this panel's
activities. Specific functional experts will be retained on
as-needed basis;
(f)   as for contracting arrangements, one turn-key contract is to be let
for the entire M'Bali dam civil works. A consulting engineer has been
selected to supervise field works and to represent the owner. Force-



- 26 -
account work using a government agerncy (the Department of National
Forests) may be used for wood extraction from the reservoir area.
Quotations for wood extraction work have been obtained and appear
reasonable compared to internationally competitive bids;
(g)   an inter-agency task force was set up for the co-ordination,
implementation, and monitoring of the Environmental and
Resettlement Action Plan (EAP); it consists of the various
affected Government ministries and/or agencies and is under
the chairmanship of the MEM.
The above agreements and related arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
For the petroleum exploration promotion component of the project, the work
program w'll be managed by a unit set up within the Secretariat General of MEM
reporting directly to the Secretaire General.
2.10 Monitoring and Reporting Requirements. MEM and Enerca are to keep
separate accounts for the project components for which they are responsible.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that these project accounts as well
as Enerca's financial statements will be audited annually. All audits are to be
conducted according to auditing standards satisfactory to and by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and the auditors' reports are
to be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of Enerca's fiscal
year. In addition, during negotlations, assurances were obtained that
Government and Enerca will submit to IDA and to the co-financiers: (i) semi-
annual progress reports on the components of the project executed by each; (ii)
quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the Environmental and
Resettlement program; (iii) copies of all consultants reports or studies
financed under the proposed credit; and (iv) a project completion report within
six montbs of completion of all project components.
2.11 The standard financial covenants of the Credit will include an obligation
on the part of Enerca to submit to IDA reasonably detailed forecasts of
financial performance covering a three-year horizon. These forecasts are to
indicate the specific actions taken or to be taken to meet the financial
objectives. Failure either to submit the forecasts by September 30 of each
fiscal year or to take the agreed actions will be tree' d by IDA as possible
default or non-compliance. In addition to the forecasts, Enerca must submit on
a timely basis actual versus budget financial and operational reports to IDA,
preferably those reports used by management. Such reports may be based on
agreed estimates, where necessary -- for example, revalued assets to determine
depreciation provisions -- and should be provided within six weeks of the close
of a quarter and of a fiscal year. Monitoring will cover selected indicators
relating to technical, operational and financial performance, customer
connections, service quality, and staffing - all of which are to be included in
the proposed performance contract (Ocontrat plan") referred to in para 1.40
above. Relevant indicators for reporting were agreed during negotiations
(Annex 1.10). Enerca will be required to report progress against physical
indicators as well as billing and collection targets in quarterly progress
reports to be submitted within one month of the end of the quarter; and against
financial indicators in the annual financial statements. The quality and
comprehensiveness of the reporting is expected to improve over time due to the
strengthening of Enerca's management information system supported by the
Project.



- 27 -
2.12 Agreement was reached during negotiations that Enerca will have
inspected, according to a specific schedule and by experts hired, all
hydroelectric generating dams under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
2.13    Procuremient.  A detailed description of thI  goods and services to be
procured under the proposed project is summarized in table 2.3 below. Although
all project components will not be financed by IDA, they do constitute an
integral part of the Project and are critical to project implementation and its
overall performance. Hence, procurement, financing and implementation of all
project components should be closely coordinated.  Civil works for the M'Bali
dam have been procured in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines and ICB
requirements with bids restricted to pre-qualified contractors and one contract
for these works is being let. Works and goods for wood extraction and
reforestation ($1.2 million) may be procured under contract awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Materials and supplies for the resettlement
program and the health protection program may be procured by direct shopping
after comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three reputable
suppliers. The CCCE-financed components of the project and, in particular, the
diesel plant component would be procured following French procurement
procedures; in order to foster healthy competition, bids for both medium and
high speed diesels will be sought. The distribution component would be procured
under either ABEDA andfor OPEP Fund procedures. Direct contracting (DC) would
be used for procuring a portion of the spare parts for rehabilitating the
existing hydro units, payments of fellowships and other training related
expenses. Some of the installation work associated with the distribution
component would be financed by Enerca and would be carried out by competent
local contractors, following LCB procedures. Consultants and technical
assistance personnel to be financed by IDA will be appointed in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. All contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000
would be subject to prior review by the Association.



- 28 -
Table 2.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(US$ Million)
_-Procurement M Ithod /
Project Component              ICe   L18  LCB   DC   FA  Other  Tots 1Cost
Environment/resettl  ment                  0.8   1.2 0.6   4.0    8.6
(0.5)           (1.7)   (2.2)
W'WaIi dam                     29.3               2.6       0.1   31.9
(9.7)                       (0.1)    (9. 8)
Generation - dlels                                         6.8     6.8
- hydro rehabilitation                                3.6    8.6
Transmission rehebilitation                                 1.2    1.2
Distribution rehabilitation/Ext'n   8.8                             8.8
Institutional strengthernng                      4.8        4.4    9.2
(2.6)   (2.6)
Petroloum sector                                            2.7     2.7
(2.7)   (2.7)
PPF                                                         0.8    0.8
_ ~ ~~~~~~ _  _          0.8)   [0-  8)
Total Project Cost           38.1  (-)   0.8   8.6 0.6  28J    70 4
(9.7) (-)   (0.5)  (-) (-)  (7.8)  (18.0)
3333  =   3    =               n= e
F gures In bracketa represent proposed IDA financing; Includes provision for contingencies.
JI ICB : Internatlonal Competitive Bidding
LIB : Limited International Bidding
LCB : Local Competitive Bidding
DC  : Direct Contracting
FA  : Force account work through Enerca or government manpower/or resource
Other: Consulting services procured through IDA, direct shopping,local or Internal
shopping with a minimum 6f three bids, or bilateral (tied) procurement.
2.14 In order to avoid delays in the construction of the M'Bali dam, the
Government - with no commitment of and no objection from the cofinanciers
including IDA,- signed a letter of intent on September 8, 1988 for the main
civil works contract with pre-financing from the lowest evaluated bidder.
2.15 Disbursements. The project would be completed by December 1993 and the
proposed Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1994 in accordance
with the estimated schedule at Annex 2.6. This corresponds to the Africa
Region Standard Energy Disbursement Profile adjusted forward by one semester to
take account of the advance procurement indicated in para 2.14 above. The
proposed IDA Credit would be allocated and disbursed as shown in table 2.4
below. Out of the proposed credit, US$1.3 million (or 7.2Z) would be used for
advance procurement and retroactive financing related to the early construction
of the M'Bali dam. This advance procurement is necessary to allow contractor's
mobilization before the end of the 1988 rainy season; otherwise completion of
the main civil works contract for the M'Bali dam would be substantially delayed
(up to a year) resulting in significant economic losses from continued power
load shedding and/or high cost fuel imports for thermal generation. All
retroactive financing will be within the maximum period of twelve months prior
to the expected date of credit signing.



- 29 -
Table 2.4: ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
2 of Expenditures to be
Category                            Amount            Financed by IDA Credit
(US Million)
Environment/Resettlement             2.0              702 of local costs excluding
compensation to displaced
population and deviation of
RN1
100I of CIF foreign costs
H'Bali dam civil works contract    6.8                27Z of all costs
Institutional strengthening          2.1              1002 of all costs excluding
TA, computer hardware, and
certain rate, human resource
studies
Petroleum Sector                     2.5              1002 of all costs
Refinancing PPA                      0.8              1002 of all costs
Unallocated a/                       3.8
$18.0
a/ Represents provision for price and physical contingencies.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts below US$20,000
equivalent which would be disbursed against statement of expenditures. The
supporting documentation would be held by Enerca/MEM and made available to the
IDA supervision missions and auditors. In order to facilitate disbursements,
two revolving funds would be established, one of US$0.75 million by Enerca
(representing about four months of expenditures) would be established in a
Special Account to be opened at a commercial bank and used for categories of
expenditures and another special account of $200,000 to be established by the
Government for expenditures related to the petroleum component. Each Special
Account would be replenished by IDA on a monthly basis or when it would be
reduced by one third, whichever comes first. The borrower would be required to
have annual audits for the project accounts, and withdrawals based on
statements of expenditures. Also in order to secure timely availability of
counterpart funding, assurances will be obtained as a condition of credit
effectiveness that Enerca will open and maintain a Project account to be used
exclusively to finance expenditures related to the Project. An initial deposit
of FCFA 130 million would be made prior to credit effectiveness and the account
would be replenished regularly to maintain continuous availability of no less
than FCFA 50 million.



- 30 -
F. Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
2.16  The Project Area.  Construction of the 30-m high dam on the M'Bali River,
4 km upstream of the weir at Boali 2 hydropower plant, will create a reservoir
of about 31 km2 and 30 km in length. Annex 2.7 provides a detailed description
of the associated environmental and resettlement aspects.
2.17 The M'Bali River flows into the M'Poko River several kilometers below the
proposed dam; the M'Poko, in ti-n, flows into the Oubangui River, which forms
the frontier between the CAR a-d Zaire. The Borrower, in accordance with IDA's
request, informed the Governments of Zaire and Congo of its intention to con-
struct the dam on the M'Bali River. A statement of no objection to the project
was obtained from these riparians.
2.18 The M'Bali dam and reservoir lie in a plateau area with 1600 mm rainfall
a year. The valleys of the M'Bali and its tributaries contain gallery forests,
and the higher ground is covered with wooded savannah. There are a number of
wild animals living in the reservoir area, some of which belong to protected
species, but which are not unique to the area, and are found in many parts of
the country. Hunting is widespread in the project area.
2.19 A study made by the Department of Forest estimates that the reservoir
will inundate about 150,000 m3 of timber which has an estimated value of over
CFAF 331 million (US $1.2 million). A component of the project will be aimed
at clearing the reservoir area, while realizing the commercial value of the
timber. Submission of an acceptable wood extraction plan is a condition for
credit effectiveness. Although the flooding of the trees in the reservoir area
constitutes a loss, this must be seen in relation to the CAR's estimated annual
timber production of 35 millior. m3. The project includes provision to replant
a 100 m belt of forest around the lake perimeter. This will replace the timber
inundated to a large extent; improve the quality of the lake water, and hence
the fishery potential, and will enhance the area scenically as well as offer
some protection to the lake shore.
2.20 The Route Nationale No.1 (RN1) from Bangui to the Cameroon Republic runs
about 5 km parallel to the reservoir for 25 km. It is estimated that the
highway will be cut in a number of places, requiring bridging, and/or road
diversions. There is a need to verify the elevations of the various baselines
used for topographical surveys in respect of RN1, the dam and the reservoir.
2.21 Along the RNI lie twelve villages populated by about 1,400 people, most
of whom will be affected by the reservoir through the loss of farms. Two of
the villages, Boyali and Bogbayele will also have houses inundated. The exact
extent of crop losses and houses flooded will only be known after the maximum
reservoir level has been marked on the ground.
2.22 As all the land used by the villages is state land, no cash compensation
will be paid for land. Instead, replacement farm land is being sought on the
opposite side of RN1. The borrower is however, has formulated policies on
compensation for disturbance, loss of fixed property, crops flooded and persons
required to move their homes to their new farm land.



- 31 -
2.23 Environmental and Resettlement Action Plans. At the time of appraisal,
there was no Environmental or Resettlement Action Plan. The Bank requested
that the Action Plan be submitted for review prior to project negotiations and,
this was done. This plan was reviewed and modified to bring it to Bank
standards. A copy is attached to Annex 2.7 as attachment No. 2.
2.24 The project will cover the costs of resettlement and steps to mitigate
the effects of the project on the environment. The extraction of as much wood
as possible is necessary to improve the water quality of the reservoir, and
hence the potential for fishery. It is estimated that fish catches will
stabilize at over 200 tons per annum five to six years after formation of the
lake. This would provide work for 60 to 80 fishing units of two or three men
using canoes, gill-nets and hooks. It is envisaged that the fish would be
dried or smoked and sold in Bangui, Boali Croisement and Bossembele.
2.25 The Borrower has formed a committee composed of relevant ministries, to
coordinate the environmental and resettlement aspects. The first task of the
committee was to make recommendations to the government on such matters as
resettlement policy and objectives, compensation policy, and to assist in the
drawing up and in the implementation of the Action Plans.
2.26 A socio-economic survey of the people to be affected by the reservoir is
currently being carried out, and a soil survey is in progress to identify
alternative land for the people whose fields will be inundated. The people are
at present enjoying the benefits of an International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) funded agricultural project, and will continue to benefit
from this project after resettlement. There is no danger of lake-side farming
polluting the water as chemical farm inputs are neither supplied nor advocated
by the IFAD project.
2.27 The Ministry of Health is committed to make proposals for minimizing the
spread of bilharzia after reservoir formation, and will also assist with public
health matters during evacuation and after resettlement.
2.28 It is expected that the relatively few houses that will be reconstructed
(approximately 80), will be built by the people themselves with some assistance
under a site and services approach. Wells are to be provided to supply
drinking water, and the people will be encouraged to dig latrines in accordance
with national policy.
2.29  Two gravel roads will be conutructed linking the M'Bali River with RN1.
These roads will facilitate the removal of timber from the reservoir area, and
will provide access to the lake for fishermen, fish traders and tourists.
2.30 The Forestry Department will either conserve existing trees, or plant new
ones in a lOOm wide belt around the lake. This component will include two
small areas of touristic forest for visitors, and local people will be
encouraged to manage the forest strip and plant oil palm in those areas where
conditions are suitable.



- 32 -
2.31 Downstream Effects. Four kilometers below the dam site are the M'Bali
Falls, a local tourist attraction. Under existing conditions, the falls are
dry throughout most of the dry season as most of the water Is diverted to pass
through the M'Bali I hydropower plant situated downstream. After construction
of the new dam, water flow will be stabilized at about 50 cu.m/sec, which will
provide over 30 cu.m/sec over the falls year round. However, the lake is
considered to have a local tourist potential at least equal to the existing
falls and facilities.
2.32 The river flow downstream at present has considerable seasonal
fluctuation varying from an average low of 20 cu.m/sec in the dry season to
about five times this rate in the rainy season. The past 12 months have been
particularly dry; during the appraisal mission visit there was only sufficient
water to produce 2 MW out of an installed capacity of 18.65 MW.
2.33 The M'Bali river flows into the M'Poko River which has about three times
the flow of the M'Bali. The M'Poko flows into the Oubangui, which has perhaps
twenty times the flow of the M'Poko. The Oubangui River forms the border
between CAR and Congo and Zaire. Thus, the effect of regulating the flow of
the M'Bali river on those two countries will be minimal, if detectable at all.
2.34 There are no downstream agricultural systems dependent on annual flooding
from the M'Bali river.
2.35 The overall costs of resettlement including the deviation of RN#l under
the project are estimated at CFAF 1982 million (US$6.5 million); the costs of
environmental protection and infrastructure replacement at CFAF 419 million
(US$1.4 million) ; with administrative overhead costs totalling CFAF 172
million (US$0.6 million). Details are shown in Annex 2.7 attachment No. 1.
G.    Project Justification and Risks
Justification
2.36 Least cost analysis. A least cost system development and expansion plan
for the Bangui interconnected system covering a 20-year horizon was prepared by
a reputable firm of consultants (see para 1.28-1.29). The load forecast used
in this analysis has been reviewed extensively and agreed upon with the
consulting engineer and the management of Enerca (see para 1.27). The forecast
is realistic. The least cost system expansion plan calls for power system
rehabilitation along with life extension project components as a priority for
cost minimization. For example, transmission line life extension can be
achieved at modest cost compared to replacement; and in the case of
distribution facilities, rehabilitation of the local network is the most
effective way to meet growth of demand, improve reliability and reduce system
losses.
2.37 An equalizing discount rate ( EDM) was computed for the hydroelectric
component of the project versus the next best alternative to meet system pcwer
requirements. The comparison involves two alternative generation expansion
programs that would serve power requirements under similar reliability



- 33 -
conditions.20 The hydro generation program is described above in the Power
Sector Development and Investment Program at paragraphs 1.27 to 1.32. The
alternative diesel generation program would consist of installation in Bangui
of a sequence of diesel generating units at time intervals matching system
demand requirements and retirements of older units. Details of this study are
shown in Annex 2.8. The results show that the cost of the comparative diesel
generation program is approximately 110, 80, 60Z higher than the hydro program
using discount rates of 8, 10 and 12Z respectively. The equalizing discount
rate is 20.22, clearly favoring a hydro-based expansion program.
2.38 The choice of the project as the least cost option remains valid over a
range of values for economic parameters and load growth. This is not
surprising as the next best or competing technology to meet growth in demand
would involve use of medium or low speed diesels costing up to US$ 2000 per
kilowatt of installed capacity. As such, diesel units would use high cost
imported fuel (table 1.1 above and the marginal cost of the diesel alternative
is almost double that of the hydro plan selected. Further, a significant sunk
investment exists in the run-of-the-river Boali stations which are only
partially effective in dry seasons-an item which the project is designed to
capitalize on. And, with respect to uncertainties in load growth, the project
is equally insensitive to this factor. The current power supply situation is
generation constrained. Load shedding and rolling blackouts have occurred on a
wide-spread basis over the past three dry seasons. Generation additions- hydrc
or thermal- have been long overdue just to meet existing revenue producing
loads. Further, sensitivity to variations in hydrology is judged to be low.
Reservoir sizing was conservatively chosen with respect to the hydrology of the
drainage basin. Mean river flow in all but the very driest years- 3 years out
of past 35 year history- exceeds the 50 cubic meter/sec average annual design
flow used to size the reservoir.
2.39 Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR). The IERR for the project was
conservatively estimated at 14.6Z which is considered acceptable. The IERR was
computed on the entire investment program and covers the period 1991-2005; cost
inputs were adjusted to reflect economic values21, and economic benefits were
computed using electricity tariffs for 1991 (59 FCFA/kWh) as a proxy.
Assumptions and detailed calculations appear in Annex 2.8. Benefits as
measured above are conservative and give a minimum IERR value for a number of
reasons:
(i)   without the project, continuing deterioration of the existing
power system facilities would lead to a progressive loss of
supply- leading to a virtual system collapse in the near
future with enormous economic damage to the country;
20 A 15 year period ending in year 2005 has been considered adequate as data
reliability beyond that date become uncertain and have little effect on
the present value of the program cost.
21 As an example, the cost of diesel fuel supply was adjusted to reflect the
border price of $50/bbl instead of the current financial cost paid of US$
150/bbl.



- 34 -
(ii) self generation is wide-spread on Enerca's system--
reflecting poor system reliability, poor service quality,
along with seasonal blackouts due to generation constraints.
Large customers and others able to so afford have installed
their own auto-generators at extremely high cost. The costs
of such self generation facilities would be largely avoided
as a result of the project yet this economic benefit was not
reflected in the computation of the IERR;
(iii) proposed rates for 1991 were used as a proxy to determine
benefits of the project instead of the higher rates (65-70
FCFA/kWh) ultimately needed for full financial rehabilitation
of the utility. However, even with use of these higher
rates, the IERR computation would still not fully reflect the
economic value to consumers of the benefits to be derived
from the Project. For example diesel power - the principal
means of alternative supply for consumers - would cost the
equivalent of about US 30 cents/kWh, some 30? more than these
higher rates. Had the higher rates been used then the
benefits of the increased sales would correspondingly have
increased the IERR.
Benefits
2.40 A sensitivity analysis was done to measure impacts on the IERR of: higher
costs (investment and operating); one-year delay in commissioning the M'Bali
dam, and; use of existing rate to measure benefits (45 FCFA/kWh) rather than
projected rates at end of project completion in 1991 (59 FCFA/kWh). The
reRulting IERR for the above changes are 13.7?, 13.6?, and 11.6Z i.e, the IERR
decreases by 0.9X, 1.0X or 3.0? respectively- see Annex 2.8 pagEs 8 and 9 for a
graphical presentation of results. The lower values for the IERR remain
acceptable.
2.41 Benefits produced by the Project include improvements in the availability
and quality of service, as well as increased efficiency and productivity in the
power sector. These benefits will reach most other sectors of the economy and
will be felt throughout business and government, including for the first time,
the potential for modest energy exporcs to a neighboring country, Zaire.
Benefits result from both new policy actions to be taken under the Project and
from direct investments which will:
(i)   commercialize the electric utility via use of cost-based
rates, improved billing, revenue collections, and reduced
unaccounted-for energy losses;
(ii) relieve the generation supply under-capacity situation in a
least cost fashion and at acceptable environmental impacts;
(iii) achieve cost reductions via substitution of costly fuel
imports by use of a renewable natural resource- hydro power;
(iv) remove hidden subsidies to the sector via a financial
restructuration which among other measures requires electric



- 35 -
rate payers rather than tax payers to pay for the foreign
debt service associated with the 3.4 billion FCFA Boali 2
power plant;
(iv) strengthen the institution for the longer term via use of
technical assistance and an improved regulatory environment
facilitated by the use for the first time of a performance
contract;
(v)   assist the Government to tackle in a coherent, programmatic
way the rationalization of the petroleum sector -both retail
distribution and petroleum exploration- via the funding of
diagnostic studies and specialized technical assistance.
2.42 For electricity users in general, and the public at large, the
improvement in the quality and quantity of service received will be reflected
in the gradual elimination of self generation, and through expanded public
use. Less directly it will also be reflected in reduced cost of damages to
electrical equipment and appliances which result from the existing erratic
quality of service. Industrial and commercial users will benefit from reduced
production losses which have often accompanied the prolonged service
curtailments.
2.43 For the Government, benefits will not only accrue in the context of its
overall policy of revitalizing and restructuring the public enterprise sector.
It will also directly benefit as both an electric user (see discussion para
2.42 above) as well as in its role as owner of the utility. The flow of funds
should reverse away from Enerca and to the Government, permitting it to reduce
the burden on the national budget.
Risks
2.44 Principal risks associated with the Project relate to both physical
construction activities, as well as project execution and financing, as
outlined below. Special measures either have already been taken and/or will be
undertaken during project execution to minimize these risks. The risks are
manageable, and do not materially affect project justificaLion.
(a)   M'Bali dam civil works. Risks of cost overruns and schedule
delays are being minimized by: (i) an early construction
start to take advantage of seasonal weather variations (ii)
having one turn-key contract for the main civil works portion
of the project. Construction cost estimates used are of good
quality in as much as they are based on firm contractors'
proposals rather than on engineering planning estimates;
(iii) construction contract provides for penalties for delays
with the value of the penalty being proportionate to economic
losses caused by a potential delay; (iv) the project
providing for the acquisition of a 4- 5 MW peaking diesel
generation capacity to meet system peaking power demands in
the period prior to project completion; (v) the retention of
a panel of experts (funded under the PPF) to assist in the
oversight of construction execution as well as to provide an
independent assessment of the engineering and field



- 36 -
geological work done; and (vi) establishment of a special
project unit -Mission M'Bali- >'thin the implementing agency
to manage the execution of the project (para 2.09).
(b)   EnviroTmental/health risks. The creation of the M'Bali
reservoir brings with it the risk of bilharzia
(schistosomiasis) for people living nearby or to those
frequently carrying out activities around the shore line of
the lake . This risk is being minimized by specific mreasures
to be undertaken under the Environmental Action Plan. Proper
development of this Plan was a condition of negotiations and
its subsequent proper execution is a covenant of the Credit.
In addition, the project unit will be staffed by a full-time
manager dedicated to environmental/resettlement matters. This
activity will be further reinforced by an inter-ministerial
task force headed by the Secretary General of the MEM. The
task force established to follow the implementation of the
Plan, includes, inter alia, representatives from the
ministries of health and forestry.
(c)   Risk of dam failure. This risk is being minimized by keeping
professional responsibility for dam safety with one firm so
as to avoid any potential conflict or ambiguity with respect
to this critically important factor. The services of the
same professional consulting engineering firm have thus been
retained for all key phases of the project i.e., design as
well as construction management. In addition, overall quality
of engineering work is subject to independent review by a
panel of experts (see para 2.45(a) above). Furthermore,
project covenants provide for the periodic inspection of the
dam in accordance with international safety standards (para
2.12).
(d)   Financing risk. A risk that a financing gap for the project
will occur has been minimized through negotiations, with
potential cofinancie,s. Several meetings of cofinanciers have
already been held to assure that sufficient financing will be
available (see para 2.14). Further, IDA credit effectiveness
will be conditioned on the effectiveness of cofinancing.
(e)   Risk of improper execution by Ener^a and Government. Risks
concerning the capability of Enerca to implement a project of
this size in a timely, coordinated manner and to achieve
performance targets with respect to its own operations are
being addressed by: (i) use of a special project unit to
manage the physical aspects of the project so as to permit
management more executive time to concentrate on
institutional strengthening aspects of the project; (ii)
fielding a team of full-time technical assistants to fill key
posts, including line positions where deemed necessary,
within the utility (team already in place); (iii) use of a



- 37 -
performance contract between the utility and Government to
define mutual obligations ( para 1.40); and (iv) quarterly
performance reporting (para 2.11) to be made a covenant of
the Credit.
(f)   Risk of improper execution of petroleum project component by
MEM. To minimize this risk, an exploration consultant will be
contracted under PPF financing early in the project cycle.
Also while the risk is deemed small, a possible
implementation complication could occur from an unwillingness
of oil companies to expeditiously provide information
acquired during their years of activity in CAR (para 1.06).
This possible complication would be dealt with in an
appropriate forum in the unlikely event that it becomes
necessary. Should such action not resolve the issue, then
this project component would be cancelled and the Credit
agreement adjusted accordingly.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01 The following assurances and agreements were confirmed during
negotiations:
(a)   the results of the long-term tariff study would be submitted
to the Association for its approval by September 30, 1989 and
the recommendation agreed upon would be implemented promptly
(para. 1.21);
(b)   conclusion of a performance contract between the Governtment and Enerca
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association by June 30,
1989 (para.l.40).
(c)   Government will foster stability and limit turnover in Enerca
top management (para. 1.42);
(d)   Enerca will submit to the Association not later than April 1
of each year an assessment of the results of the previous
year's training program, together with the program proposed
for the current year, and promptly implement it as agreed
with the Association. Names/qualification of candidates
selected for fellowships and for those to be maintained in a
fellowship program are to be submitted to IDA for its
approval (para. 1.44);
(e)   Enerca will revalue its assets periodically on a basis
satisfactory to IDA (para. 1.49);
(f)   Enerca will have its accounts audited annually by auditors
satisfactory to the Association, and will furnish the audited
accounts to the Association not later than 6 months after the
end of the fiscal year (para. 1.51).



- 38 -
(g)   Enerca will stubmit by June 30, 1989 the report of the risk-
insurance study, will consult with IDA and will take out the
new insurance policies satisfactory to the Association by
October 1, 1989 (para. 1.52).
(h)   Enerca will be unequivocally authorized to interrupt the
service to private and public customers whose arrears exceed
3 months of consumption equivalent and will charge
appropriate interest and other penalties before reconnecting
such customers (para. 1.56);
(i)   Enerca will provide to the Association within one month of
the end of each quarter starting the quarter ending September
30 1989, a statement indicating arrears by category of
consumers and a description of all the measures taken in the
quarter to reduce arrears (para. 1.56);
(j)   the Government will provide Enerca with the funds required to
cover the capital costs of electricity supplies to new rural
areas and compensate Enerca when such outlays are incurred;
and from January 1, 1989 onwards, provide Enerca with an
annual financial compensation equivalent to the operating
losses (before depreciation) including
rehabilitation/upgrading costs of rural centers (para. 1.58);
(k)   Enerca will increase tariffs to earn a rate of return on net
revalued assets in operation of 8Z from FY 1991 onwards
(para. 1.60);
(1)   Enerca will not incur new long term debt if as a result, its
debt service coverage ratio will be less than 1.5 (para
1.61);
(m)   the Government and Enerca will submit to IDA: (i) annually
audited project accounts; (ii) semi-annual progress reports on
the project components executed by each; (iii) quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the Environment and
Resettlement program; (iv) copies of consultant's reports and
(v) a project completion report (para 2.10);
(n)   monitoring and reporting requirements on performance will be
in accordance with an agreed list of indicators throughout
the life of the project and for five years thereafter (para
2.11). The proposed performance contract (para 1.40) shall
provide for such reporting and for the establishment of
annual performance targets;
(o)   Enerca will have dams inspected according to a specific
schedule and by experts hired under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 2.12).
3.02  Conditions for credit effectiveness will be:
(a)   electricity tariffs have been adjusted in a manner



- 39 -
satisfactory to IDA (paras. 1.20, 1.60);
(b)   the Government will submit a draft performance contract to the
Association to streamline the relationship between the
Government and Enerca to increase the autonomy and
accountability of the latter (para. 1.40);
(c)   full ownership of the hydroelectric plant at Boali 2 and the related
debt have been transferred to Enerca after deduction of the arrears
due by the Borrower and public enterprises to Enerca (paras. 1.47 and
1.60);
(d)   a satisfactory loan agreement has been concluded between the
Government and Enerca
(e)   all co-financing agreements have become effective (para
2.07);
(f)   Enerca will have opened a Project Account for local expenditures with
an initial deposit of CFAF 130 million (para. 2.15);
(g)   a plan for the removal of wood from the reservoir area, satisfactory
to the Association has been submitted to the Association (para. 2.19);
3.03     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the proposed
project would be suitable for a credit of SDR 13.5 million to the Central
African Republic on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Washington, D.C.
December 5, 1988



ANNEX 1.1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
IMPORTS OF PETROLEUIM PRODUCTS
(tons)
Average Growth 2
1983         1984       1985      1986            1983 - 86
LPG                             203        233       215             2.9Z
Avgas              544          579        694        493           -3.22
Gasoline       14,997        13,934    14,777    14,463             -1.2Z
Jet Fuel       10,486        11,090    15,460    17,322             18.2Z
Kerosene        5,904         7,446      8,241     8,022             10.82
Diesel Oil      19,953       21,355    28,348    23,892              6.?Z
Fuel Oil         1,321        1.691      2.455     2.675            26.j%
Total        53,204        56,094    69,974    66,867              7.92
Source: Petroca



ANNEX 1.2
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
ENERCA
CURRENT ELECTRICITY TARIFFS-a/
A. SALE OF ELECTRIC ENERGY
VOLTAGE
Tariff (tax included)
1. Low Voltage Service                              FCFA per kWh consumed
a). Lighting
First 50 hrs. of use per kW contract demand       66.27
Next 51 to 100 hrs. of use                        55.51
All over 100 hrs. of use                          52.05
Reactive power                                    48.40
b). Electric Motors
First 65 hrs. of use per kW contract demand       55.91
Next 66 to 195 hrs. of use                        46.75
All over 195 hrs. of use                          42.47
Reactive power in excess of 195 hrs.              48.40
c). Mixed Service
First 65 hrs. of use per kW contract demand       65.38
Next 66 to 130 hrs. of use                        51.24
All over 130 hrs. of use                          44.22
Reactive power in excess of 130 hrs.              48.40
d). Off-Peak Tariff
(From 9:30 PM to 5:30 AM)
Hot water heating                                 33.16
e). Public Lighting                                   50.43
2. Medium Voltage Service
a). Normal Tariff
Monthly fixed charge per kW contract demand   1983.15
Day energy per kWh consumed                       30.51
Night energy per kWh consumed                     23.91
Lighting                                          24.16
Reactive power per KVAR                           21.69
Penalty per kW consumed in of contract demand   15.09
b). Secondary Centers
Per kWh consumed, low voltage tariff             116.55
a/ Rates effective July 8, 1986, per Decree No. 004 MAACHE.CAB.SG



ANNEX 1.2
Page 2 of 2
B. CHARGES FOR EQUIPMENT RENTAL, CONNECTION MAINTENANCE, AND MINOR SERVICE CALLS
1. RENTAL CHARGES AND METER MAINTENANCE
a', Monthly fixed charge                     Tariff (tax included)
-  2-wire meters                                  620
-  4-wire meters                                1,382
- Air conditioners                              9,200
b). Monthly maintenance charges
-  2-wire meters                                  313
-  4-wire meters                                  660
2. FIXED CHARGES FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE CALLS
a). Meter installation and repair                     4,430
b). Meter test by customer request:
- meter found to be incorrect                  no charge
- meter found to be correct                    11,500
c). Service cut-off for nonpayment                    8,050
3. CHARGES FOR OPENING ACCOUNTS OR ESTIMATES FOR EXTENSION OF SERVICE
a). All requests for an estimate for power
hook up or extension will be subject
to an advance deposit in the amount of           4,025
4. EQUIPMENT RENTAL IN SECONDARY CENTERS:                      932
C. GENERAL
Two (2) francs per kWh billed are retained for purposes of public lighting.
Penalties for fraudulent use of electricity:
-  Power supply without meter and service           30,000 per kW
contract                                         installed
-  Re-establishment of service after cut-off        30,000 per kW
subscribed
- Unsealing of equipment (meter, circuit-
breaker)                                         20,000
- Tampering with adjustments of circuit-
breakers or meters                               30,000
-  Resale of power to third parties                 20,000 per kW



ANNEX 1. 3
ENERCA - BANGUI AREA
Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
1.      Generating Facilities
Station   Type      Fuel       No. of   Unit       rpm    Commis-   Available
units    size kW           sioning  capacity kW
(Nameplate)          cate    Wet season  Dry season a/
Bangui  - diesel   gas oil       2       1280       1500    1970         2000
2      2640        750    1983         5000
*                   I "  1  4200      1050    1976          3000
Sub Total, diesel                                                       10000       10000
Boali 1   hydro                  6       1760       750    1982-72       7000       2100
Boali 2   hydro                  2      4960        600    1976          9900        1600
Total                                                           26900
2.      Transmission Lines
Length (KM)      Voltage (KV)   Conductor (m2 &
Boali 1 -       Substation B        81                83           Alsr  82
(Bangui)
Boall 2 -       Substation B        83                110          Alsr 140 operated at 60 KV
(Bangui)
Substation A - Substation B          7                83           Alsr  60
3.      Substations
Location               Transformers                          Unit
(No. of units)  Voltage (KV)    Capacity (MVA)
Boali 1 station             I              6.6/80             11
Boall 2 station             I              5.5/60             11
Substation A                2              16/B0               5
Substation B                I             80/1S               10
Note:
i7'    Dry season capability reflects recent sub-saharian drought capacitv.  "Guaranteed"
capacity over the dry season which is based on long term hydrological data not
available.



CNO      WRICA EPIIC
Power ad Energy Balace Fwecrst - 8ngui bm
A tja1                                                                           --Frecast                   -       _ _        
1983       1984      l4CtuA      196        1997         1989  ~ 19899        ~ ~~  1990  1991       I!       falwStS3_t   1994      I195        1996       1997       1998
Sales (9Ml Restricted             59.000     56.900     SB.200     61.600     65.400       68.275     74.963     77.836     92.800
bl irestkicted                                                     79.500       82.000     03.000                           94.93.     99.200    110.854    115.9      121.055     MP         132195
beual 9utdh Rate (2)                                                                        2.500      4.000      4.000      3.4       14.477      4.323      4.500      4.500      4.500      4.         4.50
Losses J% of gewation                        26.295     24.631     30.643     28.093       26.763     22.6b9     22.806     20.614     20.536     20.513     1500       15.000     15.000     15.000      15.M00
kEweratian (Ol 11                            77.200     77.220     99.916     90.951       93.225     96.954    100.932    104.300    119.400    124.900    130.416    136.285    142.418    148.96    155.524
Load Factor (1)                              71.071     65.297     67.592     64.B91       65.692     61.488     63.245     62.012     60.045     57.913     59000      59.000     5.-000     59.000      8.000
Peak bDO   (25)                   11.500     12.400     13.50      I5.000     16.000       16.200     18.000     18.200     19.200     22.700     24.600     25.669     26.923     29.031      29.m       30.610
Required Re e (NM) 21                                                                       5.000      5.000      5 000      6.920      7.270      7.460      7.567      7.692      7.903      7.929       8.061
Rmeparwd Capacity 4IN)                                                                     21.200     23.000     23.200     26.120     29.970     32.060     33.23M     34.506     35.934      37.221     39.671
rapacity Srplus (deticit) (U)                                                               3.340      6.540      6.340      3.420      4.570      2.480      1.305      5.034      3.706      7.319       5.96s
Cawity  aice-ry Seusm  ON)
Rtire.ts/Additims:
Iherm  unit                                                                                                                          -5.=0                                                  -5.000
Inrewntal B1,82
Bs idro
92 Eapusio
ReplKcesnt Tlul                                                                                      5.000                            10.000                            5.000                10.000
Total Aailable Capacity {125)                                                 24.540       24.540     29.540     29.540       29.540   34.5N0     34.540     34.540      39.50      39.540     4.540      44.540
Of lich: Riftro garrntd)                                                     12.700       12.700     12.700     12.700     12.700      12.700     12.700     12.700     12.700     12.70      12.700     12.700
bersUl                                                              11.840       11.840     16.840     16.840     16.40      21.840     21.90      21.940     26.840     26.940      31.840     31.M40
MrWy Mace IRA)
RequiredEnergy                                                                             50.312     52.329     54.373     56.271     65.242     67.330      70.375     73.542     76.952     9D.310     93.924
WIt  bwatim  Available 3/                                                     29.266       52.945     52.845     52.945     52.845     52.945      52.845     12.945     52.945     52.W       52.845     52.85
tvdr SmIertim  Added
i al 6enerati                                                                               3.M33      3.42       3614       3.427     12.3       14.485     17.531     20.698     24.007      27.460     31.079        
lbiac                                                                                   6.365      3.998      2.005      0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000        _
iredEneryy                                                                             42.913     44.625     46.459      48.029     54.159     57.470     60.041     62.742     65.566     68.516     71.599
9i Beieratia Aailable                                                                      55.626     55.62      55.626     55.626     55.626     55.626      55.626     5.626      7.626      55.626     55.626
*   Beneratim Added
I seratim                                                                             1.533      2.321      2.409      2.947       4.390      5.212      4.415      7.116      .940      12.890     15.973
Balm                                                                                    14.246     13.322     11.576     10.444      5.848      3.368       o.00      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000
i/ 10 Ad added in 1992 for sale, to 2.p.
21 107 at 0t3.O0Nthm fros1959takaat lOt of e deg &d plus lest unit (15N.
31 Sr yar capability i.e. 35-year hydrogical histor; capacity Id eoual or mewd rated capacity during at least 32 years.
cweq*l



Central African Republic
Capacity vs. Peak MW Demand
M Meg awatts
6 0                                                        + 83
5   C                      ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4 3  .. . . . . . . . . . .  ........-(-    )+- ------   
actua              +-D +(EB1/b
30)  .......................    .... ...  ...   ...         ......... ......
2 0]   ....................... ......    .................... ...........  ...
10.....
0
1984      1986      1988       1990      1992       1994      1996       1998
Year
Annual Peak       +    Installed Capacity                                 O



ANNEX 1.5
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
DRAFT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TEN-YEAR POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION MASTER PLAN
1. Introduction:
Electricity in CAR is presently produced by Enerca by means of (a) a
centralized generation system serving the city of Bangui and adjoining areas
(the Bangui system), and (b) 12 small isolated centers spread around the
country.
The Bangui System
With the construction of the M'Bali dam and reservoir, the existing
hydro-electric generation statio.s8' firm capacity (Boali 1 and Boali 2) will be
increased to approach their installed capacity of 18.7 MW. According to
current demand forecasts (see Annex 1.4), this capacity would be sufficient to
satisfy load requirements to 1993, with minimal use of thermal (diesel)
generation. The M'Bali dam project, now under preparation , includes intakes
and foundation for a "foot-of-the-dam" power house. The completion of such a
project (B 3) appears to be in a least-cost expansion program. The intake
capacity for B3 has been designed for 50 m3/sec (corresponding to mean river
flow over the past 40-year hydrological cycle). These flow levels would make
possible an installed capacity for B3 of approximately 10 MW.
Several alternatives have been considered for power generation expansions
beyond the date at which the existing hydro generating system will reach full
utilization. The purpose of the "10-year Power Generation and Transmission
Master Plan" is to build upon and evaluate the information of the data base
already developed and to establish the least cost expansion program to satisfy
power generation requirements of the Bangui system from 1991 up to 2001.
Isolated Centers
The power supply for 12 provincial villages is prcvided from gas-oil
operated diesel engines. To reduce generation costs, two solutions are
envisaged: (a) extension of the medium-voltage Bangui power system, where
economic and practical and (b) where not possible, use of mini-hydro projects.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 2 of 3
2. Scope of the Work
Bangui System. The consultant shall:
(a)   update current load forecasts under various economic
development outlooks;
(b)   perform - at the feasibility level of analysis - a cost
evaluation of hydro generation alternatives including,
but not limited to:
(i)   construction of a power house at the foot
of M'Bali dam's (project B3);
(ii)  rehabilitation and expansion of the Boali
2 station, to full capacity of existing
civil works;
(iii) rehabilitation and expansion of Boali 1
station with, if justified, replacement
of existing units;
(iv) a new power development (B4 project) that
would both utilize the excess flow from
the B3 station over flows presently
utilized by B1 and B2 plants, and which
would also utilize the total head
available between the B3 and Bl stations;
(v)   other practical solutions that the
consultant considers viable for the
purpose mentioned above. This could, for
example, include the construction of a
reservoir between the outlet of B3 and
the intake of B2.
(c) evaluate alternative generation expansion programs,
with combinations of the hydro generating projects
indicated in (b) with thermal generating units and
necessary transmission system expansions to serve the
demand established in the demand projections, under
equivalent supply reliability conditions;
(d)   perform sensitivity analyses for variations in
investment, fuel cost and demand projections;
(e)   recommend an optimal 10-year expansion program,
indicating cost and construction schedules.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 3 of 3
Isolated Centers. The consultant shall:
(f)   identify within the country all villages or populated
areas, with or without electricity service, where
hydro-generation could economically provide service or
substitute existing thermal generation;
(g)   prepare a 10-year load projection for each center;
(h)   identify the least cost power generation solution to
service the load centers indicated in (f), which
considers: (i) extensions of the Bangui power system
where practical and economic or (ii) mini-hydro
stations;
(i)   establish the cost of each of the solutions indicated
in (h) and recommend for each economically viable
center the 10-year optimal program indicating its cost
and construction schedules.
3. Integrated 10-year Power Generation Program
The consultant should integrate the optimal programs resulting from the
recommendations made for the Bangui system and the isolated centers. These are
to be reviewed and discussed with IDA before finalization of the 10-year
generation/transmission master plan. This plan is intended to be reviewed at
least annually and updated at five year intervals.



Central African Republic
L'Energie Centraficaine (ENERCA)
fte         n b wd.lbmmJo
1 , s, I , 2
o~~. ossi umwm.rO*L moftwo
Annex 1.6



Central African 1Ekblic
istorical and borecat Ebems
ACTUAL               PR?M.                       FORICAST
1984     1985     1986     1987      9ti.    1989      1990     1991     1992     1993
Sales (M)
Low Voltage                                              28,218   29,212   31,583   32,515   34,396   37,765   39,213   41,714   47,799   49,976
Media Voltage                                            28,703   280963   30,009   32,863   33,879   37,198   38,624   41,086   47,01   49,724
Bangul Total                                           56,921   58,175   61,592   65,378   68,275  '14,9i63  77,836   82,800   94,880   99,200
Small TOns (L.?.)                                           412      728      439      632      632       658      668      678      688      710
Total Sales                                            57,333   58,903   62,031   66,010   68,907   75,621   78,504   83,478   95,568   99,910
levie. (FCIA million)
Low Voltage                                               1,298    1,373    1,516    1,643    1,738    2,099    2,398    2,754    3,472    3,920
Medium Voltage                                              809      941    1,006    1,249    1,288    1,555    1,776    2,041    2,572    2,904
Bagi Total                                              i,i06    2,31i4   2,52    2,892    3,026    3,654    4,17i4  4,95    6,044    6,825
Sull Tons (L.T.)                                             35       37       43       84        84       96      107      118      131       147
Total Sales                                             2,142    2,351    2,565    2,976    3,110    3,750    4,281    4,913    6,176    6,971
Revenue per kWh (MUA)
LowVoltage                                                   46       47       48       51       51        58       61       66       73       78
Meius Voltage                                                28       33       34       38       38        42       4        50       55       59
Bapi Average                                               37       40       41       44       44        49       54       58       64       69
Sull Town  (L.V.)                                            86       51       98      133       133      1f       161      174      191      206
Owerall Average                                            37       40       41       45        45       50       55       59       65       70
28-Nlov-88
>c



ANNEX 1. 7
Page 2 of 7
Central Africi Republic
'IIIRCA
listorical ad forecat Generation
ACTUAL                PR07.                        FOR2CAST
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      1993
Generation  AIb)
Hydro                                                                                          74,000   80,000   80,000   99,800  114,900  120,300
kill 1                                                 32.025   21,682   34,167   32,183
BoalI 11                                               37,990   39,197   43,141   41,719
Theml                                                     3,103   16,341   11,508   17,049   19,225   16,954   20,832    4,500    4,500    4,500
Total                                                  73,118   77,220   88,816   90,951   93,225   96,954  100,832  104,300  119,400  124,800
SSull Tomns (theral)                                          927    1,114       726    1,109    1,113    1,158    1,176    1,194    1,211    1,250
Total Generation                                         74,045   78,334   89,542   92,060   94,337   98,112  102,008  105,494  120,611  126,050
Interal use
Intercomected Systes                                      658      788       824      879       961      848    1,042       800       800       800
Lomsd (S)
., 8
'ITsl                                                        211      241       30S       27S      26S       221      221       201      201       201
Sual I0X8 T561                                                         351      401       431      431       431      431       431      431       431
Average                                                    221      241       301       281      261       221      221       201      201       201
Diesel Oil Chn"ption    (tw)
.......... ............... .    .... .
Bangui                           ... 1,158    4,006    2,883    4,215    4,1761    4,199    5,159    1,114    1,114    1,114
W I Toan                                                      317       381      242       385      379       395      401       407      413       426
Total Conumtion                                           1,475    4,387    3,125    4,600    5,140    4,593    5,560    1,521    1,527    1,540
Diesel Oil Cost (FCFA million)
.......  ....     ... ----------
Bangui                                                        287    1,302       969    1,153    1,302    1,:71    1,483         333      346       360
Sull Tons                                                      72        86      101       108       106      113      118       125       132      141
total Cost                                                  359    1,388    1,070    1,261    1,343    1,285    1,601          458      478       502
Specific Consmption (gWMN)
bui                               ... 373                               245      251       247      248       248      24        248      248       28
Sull Tog"s                                                     ... 342  342      333       347      341       341      341       341      341       341
Overall Average                                           366      251       255       253      253       254      253       267      267       268
Average Cost per ton (CFA thousand)
hunt                                                         ... 24     325      336       274      274       279      287       299      311       323
WI Towns                                                      227       226      418       281      281       286      295       307      319       332
Average                                                   243      316       342       274      261       280      288       301      313       326
28-lov-88



BeRqbliqne Centrafricaine
ICA
&.,Moe Stateents
(CIU billion)
ICTUAL               PO.                         FORICAST
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993
- - --  - - --    - - --   - - --   - - --    - - --   ----     ---       ---
Revenues
glectricity Sales                                          2,142    2,351    2,565    2,976    3,110    3,750    4,281    4,913    6,176    6,971
Other operating Revenues                                     110      129       135      156      164       184      196      217       258      281
Etensions                                                    171      143       263      120      120       122      126      139       166      180
Total Revenues                                           2,423    2,623    2,963    3,252    3,394    4,056    4,604    5,269    6,600    7,433
Exapenses
Diesel Oil                                                   359    1,388    1,70    1,261    1,343    1,285    1,601        458       478      502
Lubricants                                                    33       54        52       53       52        64       80       23        24       25
Otber uterials                                               410      402       379      247      311       317      327      361       430      468
Transport                                                      9       12         8        4        8         8        8        9        11       12
salaries and Benefits                                        620      561       559      555      555       566      583      656       683      710
Liscellaneous charges                                        162      138       120      120      134       137      141      14        152      158
Direct Taxes                                                  56       48        55       59       65        66       65       77        s0       83
Depreciation                                                 516      500       164      428    1,427    1,532    1,683    2,251    2,828    2,984
2,166    3,102    2,708    2,727    3,895    3,975    4,492    3,982    4,686    4,942
Operatig Income                                                257     (479)      255      525      (501)      82      112    1,287    1,914    2,491
Ibo  Operatig Ircone                                           (16)     285       253        0
&quisition B i II                                                                          187
Provision for bad debt                                          91      304       726      325      339       406      460      527       660      743
Interest  lpene                                                 67       92       112      125      143       240      379      652    1,567    1,585
Incowe Tax                                                      28       30        34       37       39        43       49       56        71       80
ket Income (Loss)                                             55     (620)    (365)      225   (1,022)    (608)    (M)         51      (384)      83
Operating Ratio                                                 89       1182      912      842      1152      982      952      762       712      662
ate of Retn (S)                                                  22       -42       22       22    -4.62      0.72     1. 02    7.42      8.42    11.62
Inflation                                                                                           0.0       2.02     3.02     4. 0      4.02     4.0               M  M
Tariff Increase (S)                                                                                  0.50   10.02    10.02       8.02    10.02     8.02
0O



Central African lepablic                hae 4 of?7
Debt Schedule
(ClAU illion)
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993
---   ----  ----       ---     .....      ......
CCC 1,400
pe ning Balanice                                           1,342    1,225    1,109       992       875      759
Principal                                                    117      117       117      117       117      117
Cloin  Balance                                             1,225    1,109       992      875       759      642
lnterest                                  3.5X                45       41        37       33       29        25
CCC8 1,000
Opening Balance                                            1,000    1,000       917      833       750      667
PrIncipal                                                      0        83       83       83        83       83
Closing Balance                                            1,000      917       833      750       667      584
interest                                  5.02                50       48        44       40       35        31
mcC 500
Onting Balance                                               485      485       485      485         5      485
Principal
Closin  Blance                                               485      485       45       485       18       485
Icterest                                  1.5                  7        7         7        7                  7
M;K 140
OPering Balance                                              139       139      139      139       132      118
Principal                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 14   14
ClosingBalan                                                 139      139       139      132       118      104
Interest                                  5.0X                 7        7        7         7        6         6
1   1,150
Opning Balance                                               229      784    1,150    1,150    1,150    1,035
Dbrsement                                                    555      366
Principal                                                                                          115      115
Closing Balance                                              784    1,150    1,150    1,150    1,035        920
Interest                                  5.02                25       48        58       58       55       4a



Cemtral Urican lepublic                 Ane  1.?
thiCk                   ~~~~~Page 5of 7
BID no.                                                                                 (CVA   illion)
Opelig blance                                                 12         0        0        0         0        3
Principal                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~12
Closing Balance                                                0         0        0        0         0        0
Intereslt                                 6.05                 0        0         0        0        0         0
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1kV
0alngBRIeM                                                    75        25        0        0         0        0
principal                                                     50       25
closini  Balc                                                 25         0        0        0         0        0
Interet                                  11.5S                 6        1         0        0        0         0
Ubdi loa
omw  ingBlac                                                   0    1,343    5,983    9,758   11,60?   10,897
8         =kf t                                            1,343    4,640   3S  75    1,89       160        610
Closi   Balane                                             1,343    5,983    9,758   11,607   10,897   10,387
Interest                                  7.0Q                47      256       551      748      791       748
other 1M
ceimBgm                                                          32    2,418    4,0o6    651       8,419
Dis fimt                                                      32    2,435    1,551    2,743    2,339        891
incipal                                                        0        0         3      247        2       676
Closing Balnce                                                32    2,468    4,016    6,512    8,49    8,663
Inerest                                   7.0Q                 2       87       227      368      52        599
Ibli II
~ning Balance                                              3,360    3,360    3,360    3,360    2,940    2,520
Principal                                                      0        0         0      420      420       420
Closing Balance                                            3,360    3,360    3,360    2,940    2,520    2,100
Interest                                                       0        0         0      140      120       120        0
Total
Opening Blae                                               6,641    8,393   15,610   20,733   2,451   25,029
Dislmient                                                  1,930    7,44     5,326    4,592    2,339        891
Principal                                                    178      225       203      874    1,761    2,035
Closiog Balance                                            8,393   15,610   20,733   24,451   25,029   23,885
Interest                                                     190      497      930    1,400    1,587    1,585



ANNEX 1 .7
Central African Republic                   Page  6  of  7
P 1 1 R C A
Balance Seets
(CiA! Billion)
ACT^AL                      PPRO.                        IOREICAST
1983               1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      1993
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     438                473       205      297      (138)    (120)       61     (178)      765    1,163    2.101
Accounts Receivable                                                                   4,150    4,150    3,528    3,175    2,857    2,714    2,714
Government                             202                509       702    1.045
State Knterrie                         372                505      611       675
Dosest1; and Other                                        7        .~ 13                          9        4         1        4         4        4
Prepayen&                                5125               1      " 5    "'0             39       39        40       41        U3       44        4
Prepanten    tc                           57                 16       23         9        14       14        14       14        14        14       14
lveatories                               355                404      389       421      323       323       329      339       353      367       382
Subtotal                             1,980              2,718    2,998    3,843    4,388    4,406    3,972    3,391    4,032    4,302    5,257
Gross Vized Assets                       5,479              6,016    6,714    7,757   21,119   21,681   24,271   26,231   41,309   43.522   45,991
Acc. Depreciation                        2,668              3,136    3,62e    4,074    9,756   11,183   12,938   15,010   17,861   21,403   25,243
Net Fixed Assets                       2,811              2,880    3,094    3,683   11,363   10,498   11,333   11,221   23,447   22,119   20,74
Work in Progress                                              231       650      138       338    2,415    9,706   15,616    7,666   11,089   11,817
Other Assets
Boali 11 Prepayent                       591                591       591      591         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Investments                               33                 30       30        30       30        30        30       30        30       30        30
Deposits                                   1                            1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1         1
State                                    179                167       112       90      360         0         0        0         0        0         0
SubtoWl                                804                789       133      711      391        31        31       31        31       31        31
Total ASSES                            5,595              6,617    T,475    8,376   16,479   17,349   25,042   30,259   35,176   37,541   37,853
LIABILITIES AND  QUIT
Current LiJil1itips
Suppliers                                568                544      839       689      692       722      809       865      956    1,138    1,238
Other Debtors                            323                326      489       793    1,347    1,099    1,099    1,099    1,099    1,099    1,099
State                                    792              1,097    1,448    1,835       327       327      327       327      327       327      327
Curreat portion of LTD                    51                 54       51       107       178      225      203       874    1,761    2,035    2,035
Subtotal                             1,734             2,021    2,828    3,425    2,544    2,373    2,437    3,164    4,143    4,599    4,698
Long Tem Debt                            1,414              1,820    2,572    3,075    6,629    8,393   15,610   20,733   24,451   25,029   23,885
Less: Curren. Portion                       51                 54       51       107      178       225      203       874    1,761    2,035    2,035
Net Long Term Debt                     1,363              1,766    2,521    2,967    6,450    8,168   15,407   19,859   22,690   22,994   21,850
Customer Deposits                          188                226      272       306      340       355      398       425       470      560       609
Customer Contribotions                                         70       199      402      831    1,162    1,907    2,354    2,916    3,877    4,217
Equityi
Paid in Capital                        2 705              2705    2,705    2,705    2,705    2705    2,705    2,705    2,705    2,705    2,705
Retained iarnings                       (485)              1459)  (1,079)  (1,443)      160      (862)  (1,470)  (2.246)  (2,195)  (1,579)  (2,496)
Reserves                                  91                289       30        14       14        14       14        14       14        14        14
Revaluation Surplus                                                                   3,434    3,434    3,644    3,984    4,432    5,370    6.255
Subtotal                             2,311              2,535    1,656    1,276    6,313    5,291    4,893    4456    4,957    5,511    6,478
Total LIAP. b !9I7Y                    5,59              fiR617    717.5   8,376   16,479   17,349   25,042   30,259   35,176   37,541   37,853
AUcounts   tabI e iyI                         3L                2         3        4         484      463       327      25        203      154       137
Acounts Peceivab e (ay61                                        290       348      417       181      463       327      259       203       151      131



Cntral Africa Re1pblic
Smums and pplications of luods
ICFlrlllllioa)
ACTUAL               PROV.                       FORECAST
1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993
Sources
Operating Incone                                             257     (479)     255       525     (501)       82      112    1,287    1,914    2,491
Depreciation                                                 516      500      464       428    1,l21    1,532    1,683    2,251    2,828    2,984
Internal Sources                                          773        21      719      953       926    1,613    1,795    3,538    4,742    5,475
Lss:
necrea  in  /C other tha  Cas                                420     (262)     213    1,931       218     (701)    (398)    (394)      309)    '(83)
Taxes                                                         28       30        34       37       39        43       49       56       11        80
uisc.                                                        (16)     J55)     122)    (321)    (360)         0        0        0         0        0
Provisions                                                    91      304 926            325      339      406       460      527      660       743
Subtotal                                                   626      133    1,087    2,205       558      212       694    1,716    3,749    4,360
Add: NonOperating Income                                       (11)     285      253    1,378         0         0        0        0         0        0
Boali II                                                                              187
Internal Casb Generation                                       131      174     (115)      314      368    1,401    1,101    1,823       993    1,115
Ivesbtment Pror                                                767    1,117      531    4,874    2,638    9,448    7,142    6,079    3,984    1,456
financing Gap                                                  636      943       646    4,560    2,270    8,048    6,040    4,256    2,991        341
financed by:
Borrowigs                                                    441      776      526    3,661    1,942    7,442    5,326    4,592    2,339         891
Come r Contributions                                          70      128      203       430      331      744       448      562       91       30
Cosmer Deposits                                               39       46       34        34       15        42       28       45        90       49
Increase (decrease) in cash                                    (86)       7       117     (435)      18       182     (239)     943       398      938
Usgilming Cas                                                  438      473       205      297     (138)    (120)       61     (178)      765    1,163
Ending Cash                                                    473      20d      297      (138)    (120)       61     (178)     765    1,163    2,101
Debt Service Coverage batio                                    7.6      0.2       5.3      4.1      2.9       3.5      3.1      2.3       1.4      1.5                     0  .
Self financing Ratio (current)                                  17S      163      -22S      6S       14        1S       15       30S       25S      77S
Self financing Ratio (moving Ave.))                             1U       22S       -5S      12S       92       222      15S      322       26S      41U



Central African Bepablic                      Iag  1.7
1 p I 8 c I                   h~~~~Pge 7(a) of 7
Investient Progm
IFA! lillion)                      Total 1988-93
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    ICRA  Doliars
Generation
Rehabilitation Boali 1                                    62      207       82                                351      1.2
Rehabilitation Boali 1                                   136      465      177                                780     2.6
buali Du                                               1,468   4,878    4,128    1,253                     11,727    38.4
Interets daring constraction                              47      256      551     74                       1,602     5.3
Ibali Power Station (284.5 K)                                                    2,679    2,862             5,50      18.2
Banui - Diesel Generators                                170   1,599                                        1,769     5.8
0       0        0        0        0       0        0      0.0
Rura llectrification Pro                                     0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
lisca00m
1,83    7,407    4,938   4,679    2,862        0  21,769    71.4
Tranaiuion
Rehbiliation                                               9      116      244                                369      1.2
Dictribation
Cdesators                                                 55                                                   55      0.2
Bapi Grid
Rehabilitation                                                  820   1,249      666        0        0   2,735      9.0
Extension                                                0        0        0       0        0   1,000   1,0oo       3.3
Rurl Electrification Progra                                 96      476      142     213      562      330   1,819      6.0
Total Distribution                                       I5   1,296    1,391       879      562    1,330   5,609      18.4
General Studies                                           1,       42       93      25       28       15      291      1.0
kildings                                                  '4      125       71      33       37       20      34      1.1
Vehicales                                                105       85       39      59       34       20      342      1.1
Autmotive 8bies                                            0        0        0       0        0       20       20     0.1
Lab.8 ip ent                                              10       34       7        7        9        5       72     0.2
barteT0018                                                 8       12       8        8       10        6       53     0.2
Data Processiog                                           70       34       13       0        0        0      117     0.4
0       0        0        0        0       5        5      0.0
!urnltupore,OffcEipnt.                                    25       29       33      38       U        25       25     0.6
trainiDB Support Equ nt235                                        269      306     349      399       10       25     5.1
Totl Nieoellaneos                                        595      629      569     520      560      126   3,000      9.8
Total Investunt Pro                                    2,638   9,448   7,142   6,079    3,984    1,456  30,747    100.8



ANNEX 1.8
Page 1 of 5
ENERCA
ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR PERIOD 1988-93
I.   Preamble
1.    These notes outline the assumptions used to prepare financial projections
for Enerca for the period 1988-93 (1988 is based to a large extent on the
Enerca budget). The projections reflect that the Boali 2 power plant would be
acquired by Enerca on December 31, 1987. and that in return Enerca will fully
assume the debt service obligations currently borne by CAADS, however first
cash payments for this debt service would start in 1991, after the
commissioning of the M'Bali dam. The hypotheses adopted for inflation and
increases in tariffs appear under the operating accounts.
II. Operating accounts
2.    Historical and Forecast Revenues (Annex 1.7, page 1 of 7) were
established based on a constrained production supply as follows: (i) for the
years 1988-90, by increasing total 1987 production for the Bangui area by 2.5%
in 1988, then by 4X (cumulative) in 1989-90, then by subtracting the network's
losses (See Historical and Forecast Generation) (Annex 1.7, page 2 of 7); (ii)
for the years 1991-93, eubsequent to the commissioning of the M'Bali dam, sales
were based on demand projections (in MWh) without constraints at production
level. The quantities of energy were multiplied by average revenues by rate
class (CFAF/kWh) in order to establish overall revenues. Unit revenues used in
1988 reflect the tariff increases (see income statements Annex 1.7, page 3 of
7).
3.    Other operating revenue mainly represent meter rentals and maintenance of
connections billed to users. It has been assumed that these would increase in
subsequent years proportionately with sales and inflation.
4.    Revenues for extensions mainly comprise fees for connections and
extensions billed to third parties.   To reflect the projected power supply
constraints in the period 1988-90, revenues derived from this source were
increased to take account of only inflation until 1990, then to take account of
both inflation and increased sales (kWh).
5.    The cost of diesel oil has been derived from production projections (in
MWh), using specific consumption figures (in grams of diesel oil per kWh) and
from diesel oil prices. The production projections take account of
the sales projections referred in item 3 above, production capacities available
for each year (assuming average annual hydro availabilities) and a gradual
reduction in network losses. These calculations appear in Annex 1.7, page 2
of 7.
1     she relatively high amount for 1986 is attributable mainly to one
line constructed for a foreign customer.



ANNEX 1.8
Page 2 of 5
6.    The cost of lubricants has been estimated at 5% of the cost of gas oil.
7.          Other materials mainly comprise gasoline and oil for vehicles,
supplies and materials used in operations, and for maintenance of structures.
In order to take account of projected production hydro supply constraints, it
has been assumed that this expense category will increase at the rate of
inflation until 1990, and then at the rate of inflation coupled with sales
(kWh) Increases thereafter.
8.    As regards transportation costs, these have been increased, as in item 7
above by inflation until 1990 and then by inflation and sales (kWh) thereafter.
9.    Salaries and benefits were assumed to increase at the rate of inflation
until 1990, reflecting Enerca's policy of not increasing staffing level.s in the
years to come. For 1991, a special provision of CFAF 50 million was made to
take account of staff to be hired to operate the M'Bali dam. For years 1992
and beyond salaries and benefits were assumed to increase solely by inflation.
10.      Miscellaneous charges (mainly insurance premiums, and retroactive
adjustments from previous years) have been increased at the rate of inflati3n.
11.   Direct taxes consist largely of employers' contributions related to
wages. It has thus been assumed that these will increase in proportion to the
wage bill.
12.   Depreciation was estimated on the basis of the previous fiscal years and
reflect that average life of fixed investments is, for accounting
purposes, taken as 15 years. Depreciation accrued will thus be equivalent to
one fifteenth of the average gross value of the fixed assets in operation
(after revaluation) during the fiscal year.
13.   Non-operating income (expendituresj was assumed to be zero in the
projections.
14.   A book gain of FCFA 187 million for Enerca was assumed to result in 1987
from its acquisition of the Boali 2 hydro stations. Details follow below.
This reflects the assumption that, for book proposes, the effective date of the
transfer would be year-end 1987, and that Enerca would acquire the facilities
at a price equal to the unamortized debt balance as it appears on CAADE books.



ANNEX 1.8
Page 3 of 5
Reconciliation Of Cost of Transfer of Boali 2 to Enerca
(Millions of CFA fran.s) a/
Gross fixed investment                        6,348
Cumulative depreciation                       2.210
Net fixed investment b/              4,138
New Enerca debt                               3,360
Boali 2 advance payments per Enerca Books       591
Balance                                     187
a/        According to CAADE 1986 Balance Sheet records.
b/        Revalued
15.   As regards provisions for bad debts, the policy adopted by Enerca in
recent years has been to make a 100% provision for debts outstanding for more
than four years, 75% for 3-year debts, 50% for 2-year debts, and 25% for 1-year
debts. Additional provisions have been introduced in recent years for debts
deemed irrecoverable. For the projections, it has been estimated that
provisions for bad debts will represent 10% of billings in any fiscal period,
16.   Calculations for interest appear in Annex 1.7, page 4 and 5.  The
assumption made was that Enerca would obtain external financing for 802 of its
investment program, and that during the time when the dam is being constructed,
interest on the corresponding loans will be capitalized (interest during
construction); the average interest rate has been estimated at 7Z.
17.   Income taxes were calculated based on the existing rate of 1.15% of
energy sales. (As such they constitute essentially a revenue tax rather than
an income tax.)
III. Balance sheets - (Annex 1.7, page 6 of 7)
18.   Cash at year-end (bills receivable, checks, banknotes, etc.) was
determined by a cash flow analysis, see Sources and Applications of Funds at
Annex 1.7, page 7 of 7.
19.   The level of accounts receivable were maintained at the December 1987
level for 1988, then reduced (15% in 1989, 10% in 199' and 1992, and 52 in
1992) to reflect gradual improvements resulting from the new collections
program. The equivalent in days of receipts appears at the foot of the balance
sheets, Annex 1.7, page 6 of 7. Average age of accounts receivables would
reach approximately 150 days by 1992.
20.   The level of prepayments (or downpayments to suppliers, to personnel) at
year-end was increased each year by the rate of inflation.



ANNEX 1.8
Page 4 of 5
21.   Miscellaneous prepayments mainly consist of adjustment items, and these
were maintained constant.
22.   Inventories were increaned by the rate of inflation.
23.   For gross fixed assets, a special provisions was made on 12/31/87:  (i)
to take account of the revaluation of fixed assets in service at 12/31/86,
amounting to CFAF 6,478 million; and (ii) for the acquisition of the Boali 2
power station at December 31, 1987, in an amount of CFAF 6,348 million
(paragraph 15 above). In subsequent years, gross fixed investments were
revalued to take account of inflation. It was estimated that the annual
increase in fixed assets would be equivalent to 50% of new investments made
each year (except for the M'Bali dam). The investment program appears in Annex
1.7, page 7 (a) . Lastly, it was assumed that the M'Bali dam will become
operational at end 1991.
24.   Accumulated depreciation was increased annually to include accruals made
each year (paragraph 13 above). Special adjustments were made for 1987: (i)
for the revaluation of accumulated depreciation at December 31, 1986, an amount
of CFAF 3,044 million was added, and (ii) for the Boali 2 power plant, CFAF
2,210 million (paragraph 15 above) was also added.
25.   Gross fixed assets  were increased annually to include total investment
for the M'Bali dam (until 1990) and by half of other new investments.
26.   The advance for Boali 2 which appears at end-1986 was eliminated, since
the power plant appears in gross fixed assets as from 1987 (para. 2).
27.   Other assets including2 deposits and customer advances have been
maintained constant.
28.   Amounts due from the State for miscellaneous investments made by Enerca
were assumed to be settled by end 1988.
29.   Accounts payable to suppliers were increased to take account of inflation
and sales in kWh.
30.   Miscellaneous debitors mainly comprise of contributions for street
lighting, contributions for social security and social funds, and such sums
subject to adjustment. They were maintained constant.
It has been assumed that Enerca will be able to find financing for its
entire investment program (Joans, equity capital, self-financing, government
grants) although important questions remain to be resolvcd regarding the
schedule of investments for the M'Bali power plant, the size of the future
generation additions including the additiional 5MW diesel scheduled for 1989
for Bangui, and the rural electrification program.
2Certain customer contributions should be posted to the profit and lors
statement as the corresponding investments have not been reflected in
Enerca's balance sheet.



ANNEX 1.8
Page 5 of 5
31.   Enerca balances for its Government accounts payable were settled in 1986,
so that the 1987 balance sheet is expected to reflect mainly current taxes
(ICAI). In subsequent years this balance sheet amount was therefore increased
only for turnover.
32.   Current portion of long-term debt due was calculated from the debt
schedule (Annex 1.7, pages 4 and 5).
33.   Long-term debt was calculated in the debt schedule (Annex 1.7, pages 4
and 5). It has been assumed that the new loans (M'Bali and others) will
represent 80% of the Enerca investment program (and the whole of interest on
the construction of the M'Bali dam).  An exception is made for the investment
program for isolated secondary centers, which would be financed in entirety by
the State, in the form of equity capital. New loans were projected assuming a
maturity of 20 years, with a 4-year grace period on repayment of principal and
a 7% interest rate.
34.   Customer Deposits were increased to take account of inflation and
increases in energy sales.
35.   Customer Contribution were increased annually to include the program of
investments in isolated population centers.
36.   Paid in Capital was maintained constant.
37.   Retained earnings have been adjusted annually to reflect results for the
fiscal year.
38.   The revaluation surplus for 1988 has been estimated at CFAF 3,434
million, and increased in the following years to take account of inflation, on
the basis of the revaluations of gross fixed investment and cumulative
depreciation (paragraphs 24-25).
39.   Reserves were maintained constant.



ANNE& 1.9
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
PROPOSED DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDY OF
SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION OF PETROLEU. PRODUCTS
I. Introduction
1.    Imports of oil products to Central African Republic, whose volume
approaches 70,000 tones as well as representing around 12% of import costs and
23% of export receipts, constitute a substantial burden for the national
economy. The main objective of the proposed study is to seek effective ways to
reduce these costs by, for example, introducing new policies for supplies,
price setting and institutional channels for importation and distribution.
2.    At present, orne State enterprise, Petroca, has a de facto monopoly in the
petroleum sector of the economy. As it lacks qualified national staff to
manage its activities, Petroca relies on a foreign oil company to manage its
day-to-day affairs. The ministry having regulatory oversight over petroleum
use (the Ministry of Energy and Mines) lacks officials specialized in this
sector and is thus obliged to discharge its responsibilities with the limited
means at its disposal as regards both equipment and staff. Consequently, any
reform of this activity will have to take account of the constraints as regards
qualified personnel.
3.    Lastly, the supply chain comprising acquisition * storage 4 river
transportation 4 storage 4 distribution is characterized by the constraint of
the dry season, lasting around six months. During this season the Oubangui
River is not navigable and to all intents and purposes it is impossible to
replenish oil stocks. A cut-off in stocks during the dry season would have
disastrous consequences for the CAR economy. Consequently, any restructuring
of the petroleum sector must take account of this seasonal constraint, and
ensure that supply is guaranteed throughout the year.
II. The Current Situation
4.    Oil products imported into C.A.R. are generally transported from European
ports to Matadi, Zaire; they are then brought by pipeline to Kinshasa. Then
they are transported to Bangui by river barge. The cost of the operation is
high on account of a number of factors, including: (i) limited competition in
product procurement; (ii) vertically integrated subcontractors for
transportation, storage and distribution; and (iii) financing costs and
distribution margins that are higher than elsewhere.
5.    Petroca is the oil company responsible for the sector. It is 75% owned by
the state, and 25% by a consortium of six foreign companies. Petroca is
responsible for the supply, storage and distribution of oil products on a
country wide basis. A 1980 agreement between Petroca and Total Afrique, makes
the latter responsible for supplies, and for providing the technical assistance
necessary for operations.



ANNEX 1.9
Page 2 of 4
6.    The Central African oil product market is largely concentrated in Bangui,
and is characterized by the substantial share of diesel oil (36%), jet fuel
(26%) and gasoline (22%). Present annual consumption is in the order of 70,000
tonnes and has increased by nearly 8% annually in recent years. The level of
consumption is strongly influenced by the seasonal availability of hydro
generation (diesel fuel used for production of electricity during the dry
season) and by the political situation in Chad (jet fuel for the French Air
Force).
7.    Prices of oil products are fixed with reference to an official scale
reflecting the Government's fiscal and other priorities. The difference
between this reference price and actual cost is credited (debited) to an
equalization fund under the control of the Treasury.
8.    The existing petroleum supply system was examined in detail in a study
prepared by Arthur D. Little in 1983. This study concluded that the c.i.f.
prices and margins reflected in the retail price structure were too high in
relktion to comparative prices prevailing at the time, and that it was
desirable that new mechanisms be introduced. The main object of the present
study is, after an updating of the previous study, to analyze and then develop
an implementation plan which introduces mechanisms to ensure more efficient
supply of oil products to CAR, while taking account of existing constraints.
III. Methodology of the Study
9.    The proposed study will consist of two main phases:  (i) design and
preparation of a plan of action to restructure the sector; and (ii) development
of an implementation plan for the new structures, once the authorities have
agreed to this.
a.Design and Preparation of Restructuring Program- Phase I
10.   This phase of the study will consist of a detailed evaluation of the
strengths and weaknesses of the existing structures and mechanisms for
petroleum acquisition and distribution, including:
(a)  the role and functioning of the various agencies concerned,
including the Supervisory Ministry, the Ministry of Finance,
Petroca, the Commission d'Achat de Produits, the Caisse de
Stabilisation, etc. (including legal and operational aspects of the
question);
(b)  the mechanisms in force for purchasing and financing the purchase of
oil products, and for transporting them to C.A.R. (including
contractual aspects as regards storage and transportation
enterprises outside CAR);
(c)  detailed comparison of c.i.f. prices and cost components (for sea
transportation, storage, river transportation, distribution,
financing, etc.) with international norms, and, as far as possible,
with those of comparable African countries;



ANNEX 1.9
Page 3 of 4
(d) retail price setting mechanism for each product, including
calculation of the recognized margins by product, the role of the
various agencies affected by the setting of margins, current policy
on exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on fuels, and
reconciliation for the last two years of theoretical and actual
revenue by the Central African State;
(e) physical state of the facilities for storage, transportation and
distribution of oil products as presently used in CAR and, insofar
as is possible, in Zaire, and the quality of the service provided to
users;
(f) a preliminary study of alternative supply channels (including supply
through Congo and Cameroon), including their operational
consequences (where possible, visits by officials to the countries
and to facilities for loading/unloading of products); and
(g) an examination of availability of qualified Central African
personnel (managerial staff, engineers, technicians, etc.).
At the end of this phase of the study, a detailed report should be submitted
which includes inter alia the following: (i) a technical, organizational,
financial and economic diagnosis of the sector; (ii) recommendatiuns aimed at
improving the efficiency of the various components in the supply-delivery chain
(organizational, technical and financial aspects), alternative methods to
rationalize the price fixing mechanism; and (iii) a program to restructure the
entire petroleum distribution sector (including the role of Petroca as a joint
venture company which might operate in competition with private companies).
11.   The restructuring program will cover all the above points and must take
account of the specific constraints of the CAR (particularly its geographical
situation and lack of qualified personnel). For these reasons the plan will
need to be reasonably detailed, and will have to provide for needs in
equipment, technical assistance, training, etc., for each stage. The
restructuring program will be the subject of discussion with the Central
African authorities. Subsequently, the consultant may assist in the
introduction of the new structure for the sector.
b.     Introduction of New Structures - Phase II
12.   It is anticipated that the principal agent for execution of any new
structures will be the Ministry of Energy and Mines. Insofar as the
conclusions of the study recommend an opening of the markets to competition,
the Ministry will execute this new policy through Petroca (exercising
regulatory oversight) and by arms-length monitoring of any companies that may
choose to penetrate the market. It will thus be necessary to maintain a
sufficient level of autonomy to ensure competition on equitable bases for all
the parties concerned.



ANNEX 1.9
Page 4 of 4
13.   Consequently, it will not be possible to appraise the extent cf the
technical assistance required (intended to introduce reforms and also to train
CAR officials), the training program, needs in equipment, etc.,
until the conclusions and recommendations arising from the first phase of this
study have been approved by the authorities.



ANNX 1.10
Pap 1 of 3
CCN3AL AniUCAm 2ZpUDLIC
imicns Da ?nmLoui
INDICES
TRIHSTR                      ZCAXT
Actual          Budget        Budget   Actuel
En     Annie  En       Ande
Courn  Pas 6e  Cours  Pases.  Hontant I Kontant 2
t. INDICES-?TIANCL IT COMMhRCIAL
MARGE BRUTE D AUTO-PINANCEHENT
1.1 Cntr6e do fonds d'operatlon
notte (avant intir&to)
1.2 Doculsvement-ptogram_
d' Iastluesnnt
1.3 Pourcantapo d auto-flnnc _ant
(1.3 - 1.1 x 100)
14
POSITION OX LIQU1DITS
1.4 Aceif a court torne
1.5 Pasuf & court terms
1.6 Ratio de liquldit6 gdn&rale
(1.6 * 1.4 15)
COIMPTUS - CLIZNTS
1.7 Valoure A recevoir (Impa y6)
1.8 Zacturatlon
1.9 Ago des b*ay*o on journ
(1.9 a 1.7 z nombra de jour.
1.0   du trilnstre)



ANWRK 1.10
Page 2 of S
INDICES                                                 ,'-
Actuel          Pudiet        Sudget    Actuel
En     Aan4e   En     Ana6e
Cours  Paus*e  Court  Paso6e  M.ntant 2 Montunt I
33N3nC3  D'tXPLOITATION
1.10  I6nifice not (12 dernier mole)
1.11  Invest$sseecat *n Iinobilla-
tio   n service uoyen (12
deriiers mole)
1.12 Rentabilit& de llnvestisse nt
(2)   (1.12  1.10 * 100)
1.11
AUTRES IClICOS
1. PERTs COHRCIALE 3t TECS     QUE
1.13 Energie produlte (HYB)
i1..1 Themmique
1.13.2 Hydraulique
1.14 Etergie facturde (KWH)
1.15 Partes (1.13 - 1.14) (KFH)
1.16 Pourcentaep d* pertes, 2
(1.16 - 1.15 S 100)
1.13
11. PRODUCTION-DISPONI8ILITIE ET COUT
D'OPERATION
2.1 Poinut de ebarge. KW
2.2  Capacit6 dioponible. MV
2.3 R4uerve (2.6 - 2.1)
2.4 Pourcentage de r6serve
(2.3 x 100)2
2.1
2.5 Pulssance lnstallie
2.6 Pourcentage de disponibilitie (2)
(2.6 - 2.2 z 100)
2.5



A= 1.10
Pap 3 of 3
INDICZS
TRISTUS                      ECA*T
Actuel           Ludc t       Budget    Actuel
Za     Ann&&   In      AaQh
Cours  Paest#   Cours  Pass"  Hontant I M-ontant __
2.7 Cott do combustible. VCFA (millilrs)
2.8 Coat aoyon de combustible
(nFGA/kWh thbomique)
2.7
1.13.1 (production therdique)
2.9 Consomation spdclfique
(Grammesu/X8 DiAsel)
I11PIRSONNEL 3T CLIENT DZSSERVI
3.1 Nombre de clients
3.2 Personnel *ffectif & la XNERCA
3.2.1 Permanent
3.2.2 TSmporire
3.2.3 total
3.3  Itat de ple FCFA
3.4 Etat de pale soyen FCFAI*eploye
(3.4 - 3.3
.2. 3
3.3 5 ombre de clients par employd
(3.5 - 3.1 , 3.2.3)
3.6  Nombre de clients our le systle
ENKICA Bangui
3.7  Nombre do clients mesurds
3.8  Nombre de clients systbues
secondaires
IV. DISTRIBUTION
4.1  Nombr* de branchewnts r0slis*s
4.2  Nombre de compteurs install&s
4.3  Nombr, de demandes de branchasnt
4.4  Kilomtrag5  des lines en service
4.4.1    M.T.
4.4.2    3.T.
4.5 Capacitd des postes KTIbS (WVA)



ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN R=EPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a)   The M'Bali Dam.   The M'Bali dam is a structure 780-m long and 30-m
high at its highest point. It includes a 90-m long concrete structure
at the center, with earth and rock fill-embankments on both sides.
The concrete portion of the dam contains an overflow spillway, split
in two portions, separated by power house intakes and a bottom level
reservoir outl-t. The spillway crest has a maximum evacuating
capacity of 1,000 m3/sec. On the downstream side of the concrete
portion, there is provision for a future 'foot of the dam' power
station (Boali 3).   The dam will create a reservoir of about 250,000
m3 capacity that would permit to regulate a flow of 25m3/sec, which is
half of the long-term average flow of the river (of 35 years
statistical hydrological records). This capacity was established on
the basis of the power requirements, result of a long-term power
demand projection. Due to the uncertainties involved in this type of
projections which unexpectedly could change such demand, arrangements
have been made to permit the raising of the spillway crest (by means
of gates) in the future, to make possible full regulation of the river
flow, i.e., 50m3/sec. At present spillway elevation, the reservoir-
inundated area would be around 31 sq.km. The total cost of the dam
including resettlement, environment actions and contingencies is
11,727 million CFAF (US$38.5 million).
(b)   Diesel Generation.  From the present up to the commissioning date of
the M'Bali dam (1991), ENERCA requires additional thermal (diesel)
capacity to minimize supply restrictions (estimated at about 6 GWh
during 1987). The project includes the procurement of 4 to 5 MW of
medium speed diesel capacity that can be quickly installed i.e., in
service by end 1988. The estimated cost of this capacity is CFAF
1,775 million (US$5.8 million).
(c)   Hydro Station Rehabilitation. This component covers the rehabilitation
of the Boali 1 and 2 generation stations. At Boali 1 work includes
foundation repairs for unite 4 and 5; major overhauls of electrical
and mechanical equipment for units 3, 4 and 5; and, repairs to the
powerhouse itself. At Boali 2 work includes repairs to the intake
canal;penstock; and major overhauls of the two 5MW hydro units
including runners, alternators, and, auxiliary plant. The estimated
cost of this component is 1,054 CFAF (US$3.5 million).
(d)    Transmission Rehabilitation.  The 81 km, 63 KV line from Boali 1 to
substation B in Bangui was built in 1955 and is presently out of
service. It requires comprehensive rehabilitation of supporting



ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 4
structures, re-insulation, partial re-conductoring, some
changes in routing and the provision of a service road for
the maintenance of rights-of-way. The cost of the
rehabilitation of the line is estimated at CFAF 368
million (US$1.2 million).
(e)      Distribution Rehabilitation.  This component consists of the
rehabilitation of 12 feeders and the strengthening/expansion
requirements for the Bangui 15KV distribution system for the period
1988 through 1992. It includes: replacement, reinforcement and
extension of distribution circuits including street lighting;
rehabilitation of 20 distribution substations including a lOOOkva
increase in transformation capacity; the provision of improved
metering; installation of approximately 4MVAR of reactive capacity.
Total cost is estimated at CFAF 3,000 million (US$9.8 million).
(f)      Vehicles, Heavy Tools, Other Equipment for ENERCA Operations.
This component includes one (1) electric utility b:cket truck;
one (1) five-ton mobile crane for distribution maintenance; air
compressors; rehabilitation/replacement vehicles and spare parts
for the existing fleet; general office equipment including PC's
(10), business systems using mini-computers (2) and related
hardware and meters for consumer billing; laboratory equipment
for meter repair and testing. The total cost is estimated at
CFAF 578 million (US$1.9 million).
(g)      Manpower Development, Training, Technical Assistance to Enerca.
This consists of technical assistance to improve all aspects of
Enerca's operations including:(i) developing the personnel
management/human resource function at Enerca; (ii) electric
tariff studies; (iii) scholarships to ESIE for training Enerca's
personnel in several areas, for the period 1988 through 1991
(total estimated cost of CFAF 1,692 million or (US$5.5 million);
and (iv) six man months of technical assistance will be provided
to the Mission M'Bali, mainly to set up procedures and systems
for monitoring the impact of the environmental and resettlement
components, but also to provide technical advice on
implementation.
(h)      Energy Sector Studies and Technical Assistance.  This component
covers the provision of consulting services to : (i) conduct a
diagnostic study of the acquisition, transport, and



ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 4
of oil products and then develop recommendations to impro'te the
cost performance of this energy sub-sector -(see annex 1.9 for
terms of reference for study); (ii) develop a ten-year power system
expansion program for the country as a whole (see annex 1.5 for
terms of reference); (iii) design new electricity tariffs; and (iv)
assist in the development of a program to promote the exploration
for hydrocarbons.
(i)   Program to Promote the Exploration of Hydrocarbons.  As the contract with
the Consortium of oil companies has now expired, CAR's basin is totally
free of any exploration activities, yet still remains partially
unexplored. The promotion preparation work program will includes
Contractor's services:
i)   the reinterpretation of aero-magnetometric data in the light of
seismic results;
ii)  reprocessing seismic logs on about 300 km of kilometer-lines and
subsequent seismic stratigraphy study;
iii) structural reinterpretation of seismic data;
iv)  reinterpretation of the Aoukale 1 well data, to the point of view of
geochemistry, petrophysics and hydrocarbon shows;
Consultant's services:
v)   retrieving all basic petroleum information, including magnetic
tapes. from oil companies;
vi)  the integration of previously existing and newly acquired data into
a geological dossier focussed on the definition of refined
conceptual plays;
vii) revision of the petroleum legislation and fiscal terms and
preparation of a model contract;
viii) presentation to oil companies, in Europe and North America, during
private sessions, of both the promotional package and the revised
petroleum legislation and model contract;
ix) assisting the Government in negotiating with oil companies.
In order to implement the above mentioned work-program,
the project will also include:
i)    assist the MEM in promoting the CAR's basin
and organizing petroleum exploration data
base (21 manmonths);



ANNEX 2.1
Page 4 of 4
ii)   contracting a part-time resident consultant in
petroleum legislation and contract negotiation (21
manmonths);
Otherst
x)   strengthening of technical capabilities of MEM staff; and
xi)   procurement of office and storage equipment, and vehicles.



1                                                     ProJect CcithtIuto                                                         AMea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iu 2-2
Ill"       IN9                  im~~~2)1           2191                 1992                TOTA         1orohs  Toal~
1. me  am    (MCI)                                --- TO-U-1                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io--,F0re ia -- T'otal ioca-l P'o'e itp ..To'ta'l -Local.. for?elga    otal Totif
8                                  80  11170  ~~~~~~I'll  013   251,2200    50 70   T0                                  0      0      0    ,?  1.51    1,515     000 9 0]  :1)
0                                                    ~          ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~13  50  r0  0  0  0  0                                                        050 181
4. Eekablhtatimloaliuis                    114                                         32 I21  0            05   02       0     o      0    52    6           l 845 0.61  3611
33   botln Dihe Sojeu tle                             1      35       2 1  ,81 n,616        0 19        2 0            0     0      0      0     0    412,552,401 1.        00.20  iS 2%1
~    oallitatlcolOGklna I13                          5              0     6                    so 0 12  0           0      0     0      0      0    125     .5         5    .00 60.6 l1,
30   .8a111tatlehod  l2i                         6    11       10      10    3 1 )1         007 13    130,00    50 40   50           0      0              2,810  2,20         5'0 1 1.3   oil
Sub totealctherCauscImt31 05050                                       2 L0001,1   1000 Q0000  0  02                                              50   2352,0?U  15
51  3,bteuima                        ~ ~~ ~~~0 50    50      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      V   5 0   10 0         .
55  goTtl n.             )0   50  50   10630oo100 1)1901,00    50450  500  00    0  A1290502,2100)1.2126)l
I Dl               ute                           0       0      0       1 20   21            3    60    63       0      0      0     0      0      0     4      00      0409605)
J= llaaa1lK ut hildta)                                     1             14    28        '      '~                  6    21      6     1     2
lIA-flarca                                       11 ~~~~~t15                        &I  0I  24                   6  0i    A   123293 916 0I'm51In
Temeles/otillaq trods               I      225       024                                                                                                            III0    2
cles/12t111  tocko           9  ~     ~ ~~~~1                      0                   0                           80                 4       4100lOOP 1
twhi  t   ~   ~       ~ ~ ~ 0                    0            51      0            5~0 41 ~,0100.01 .!
MIa/oa                                0         10  0o                              01 t111           0     0      0      0      0     0      0 114  14          too.0.1
= 1r 5qopEmt                                    0      to     10       0     16                          6      0      6     6      0      1     1      0      ll 611006  0.0
50 ~~~~~~~~~~I  1I                                              iI0 II   iS                                                   0 130 1                           N  R
25      0      25                   213        0         2      3      0     3       3           3     14             1        .1    .,
1011  ii~~~~~~'   ~~~                 0      10      10      0     1  11   1201                       0      2      2     0     13     1             5       58   o 02 0.303'
1'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~..    ..    ..    ---------...------------...   ..   ..   --                                                                        --    i- --              -
it     SobTta                                  20    511    540       32   440   415       31   402 0 43       536 846 02          238635    404   11i2 2,01)412,251    92.4  12T)j
U .T Potroluu lloratie                          0      0       5       4    4      40      22          22 ~50  16 17 17            10110I 1204 U              40     535  91.G 36 0
64    1trlm 01Abdiol,St*d                       0      0       0       0    9      52                    0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0107         107   10060  0fol~
Total                        ~~~~~~~0  0  0                                                   15011                                  1010  11006.
68  So  0ro  0ero101116   33211 4 50101111211021022
a  ub O Iu                                  0    0    0   145315427    3   2 51 01652404427 117 140 110 1207042,00414 9.0  I.
U      oa l mmntWrgml MM                        168   15011 5           10,)2,266 60 630 .1    1506 4,15 ,561, 221 30    4    0 174190    145   515  32 3,1 115,57171    U0110.01)
10  1137 cTOTLeke 0T                        1   2,2    240         100069.1           ,0 5,511e  6,10    262 2,208  42,4        55   623   615242o18042122 900 a
103
104 Ill 0113 am1  19002U
I          [-,N- -t M-                 1~~~ 711       !      4    4       05      I10         11!   155  1,M   2.50    13  1.53  2,1fi   tU         4 1:1  I55
to 5. lldWao                                       15303850 2100161   14 43516 18301720326660100   265
169---   - ----- -----                                                           ------ --      ------------------------  --  --  --  ..
I10 TOTAL 0113 Oa (FM06D BT 016)                   22    116    13?       61   4486  524       26 148   112   122 2,062 2,104   140  2,274 2,411   302  5,045   5,426
126 TOTL mICA jiqiwo FMEA   RAH MM                220  2,163  2,463    611  1.331 0,029  1,07114,661 5,132    345 3,600  4,151    196  2,141  2,143  2,530  20,130  23,251
Lacalt" jM    bto8                         D1      001                                  )      )           -       1           4)    IS
actors      1.00   1               Le   LOP 61           051.               L     1.1 23        1.14.31
lowet  oxCoutmwt1u                       41             41    258           216    Hi            551140              148      0            0 1,6026          2,602
~             S:~   1!  :5511~  515511  511,1 111  5313 Al  1 ~3Al 1:5 1~5 Ii
tUv~U



OS-Dee-88
CUtRAL  IIIICll  RIMLIC                                                               AIM    2.3
linmy PIOJICT
SMIBI   - FIIAICIIG PLO
---------------------------------------- Fincing  P             5   illi)--------------------------------------------
-------------0$ lillio         lo-----------    ---------IDA----------   UDB           CCCI        luwaiti Id.       ADIO           FAC                        Itl5CA         GOT.           TOTAL
Local        FDreign        Total  a/   (Cred.)          (PPI)                                                                               OPtC told                       IID
PROJICT COUPOEKIT
A.  l'Bali Du.                       5.65         32.81          38.45         11.95          0.00         14.60           2.52           6.90           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           2.48         38.45
IntereSt Duriag Coast.        5.30           0.00          5.iO          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.           0.00          0.00          0.00           5.30          0.00          5.30
8.  Diesel Capacitjl  )                                           0.00
Rehab. Generation )              0.18          9.33          9.51          0.00           0.00          C.00          9.31            0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00          0.20          0.00           9.51
C.  Rehab.  traBsiBssion             0.46          0.74           1.20          0.00          0.00          0.00           1.20           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00          1.20
0.  Behab. Distr.                    0.83          8.31           9.15          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00          4.00           0.00          4.00           1.15          0.00          9.1S
1.  Instit. Strengthening            0.60          7.77           8.37          2.37          0.00          0.00           0.26           0.00           0.00          4.80          0.00          0.94           0.00          8.37
F.  Petroleu  Sector                 0.24          2.69           2.93          2.93          0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.D0          0.00           0.00          2.93
G.  Befinancing of PPI               0.00          0.75           0.75          0.00          0.75           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.75
TO7AL linancin,  Reqgd          13.26         62.40         75.66          17.25          0.75         14.60          13.29           6.90          4.00          4.80           4.00          7.59          2.48          75.66
. .... ... .  -- - - -   - - -  -      -  - - -       - - - -       - - - -       - -  - -      -  - -- -       - - -  -      - -  - -       - - - -       - - - -       - -  - -       - - - -
IIUAICIIC AGIrY
IDI     3                 3.97         14.03         18.00
IDA PPI )
LSDB                      0.00         14.60          14.60
CCCI                      0.46         12.84          13.30
luuaitl  uand             0.00          6.90           6.90
ABDID                     0.00          4.00           4.00
FAC                       0.00          4.80           4.80
OPIC Fund                 0.00          4.00           4.00
lIIRCA                    7.59          0.00          7.59
Other/MD                  1.24          1.24           2.48
TOTAL                  13.26         62.41         75.67
al Includes eontingencies



CENTRAL AFRICAN  REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
PROJECT  I3IPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIVITY             1988       1989      1990      991       1992      1993
Production
- M'Ebali Dcm        *a  "
- New DieIs(s)
- Rehab Ebali 1&l I   r
5 Transmission Rehab
L  Distribution Rehab
Institut'l Streng g
Petroleum Sector
Distribution
Exploration TA                   __
Power Setor_
Production
- M'Bali Dam
- New Diesel
- Rehab Boali I&II
S  Transmission Rehab _
Distr.Rehab_
Ir.stitut'1 Streng-g
Petroleum Sector
Distribution                      ______
Exploration
1   Extension



ANNEX 2.5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements    a/
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method b/
Project Component                       ICS    LIS    LCB    DC    FA   Other   Total Cost
Environment/resettlement                               0.8    1.2  0.6    4.0         6.5
(0. 5)              (1.7)    (2.2)
M'8ali dam                             29.3                   2.5           0.1     31.9
(9.7)                              (0.1)      (9.8)
Generation - diesels                                                        5.8       5.8
- hydro rehabilitation                                              3.5       3.6
Transmission rehabilitation                                                 1.2       1.2
Distribution rehabilitation/Ext'n    8.8                                              8.8
Institutional strengthening                                   4.8           4.4      9.2
(2.5)    (2.6)
Petroleum sector                                                            2.7       2.7
(2.7)    (2.7)
PPF                                                                         0.8       0.8
(0.8)    (0.8)
Total Project Cost                   381   (-)        0 8    T8. 60      22.6      70.4
(9.7)  (-)    (0. )   (-)  (-)   (7.8)   (18.0)
a/  Figures in brackets represent proposed IDA financing; includes provision for contingencies.
b/  ICB     International Competitive Bidding
LIB     Limited International Bidding
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
DC   : Direct Contracting
FA   :  Force account work thrcugh Enerca or government manpower/or resource
Other: Consulting services procured through IDA, direct shopping,local or internal
shopping with a minimum of three bids, or bilateral (tied) procurement.



ANNEX 2.6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
-- Project Schedule -------            Bank Profile 2/
IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursements            Cumulative 1/Region: Africa
and Semester                  per                    through   Sector: Energy
Ending                   Semester                 Semester
FY 89
December 88             0.0                     0.0             0.0
June 89                 1.3                     1.3             0.2
FY90
December 89             2.5                     3.8             1.3
June 90                 2.3                     6.1
FY91
December 90             2.0                     8.1             6.1
June 91                 1.6                     9.7             8.1
FY92
December 91             3.4                    13.1             9.7
June 92                 1.1                    14.2            11.3
FY93
December 92             1.i                    15.3            13.1
June 93                 1.3                    16.6            14.2
FY94
December 93             1.4                    18.0            15.3
June 94                 0.0                    18.0            16.3
FY95
December 94             0.0                    18.0            18.0
1/          Assumes Board date December 1988 and loan effectiveness
March 1989. Disbursement profile based on Bank profile for
energy sector in Africa. Disbursement advanced one
semester as major civil works contract to be let and field
work to commence October 1988, (Project provides for
retroactive financing).
2/          Standard Disbursement profiles, issued April 22, 1988 by
Central Operations       Department.
3/          Closing date assumed to be June 30, 1994.



ANNEX 2.7
page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
The Prolect Area
1.    The proposed dam on the M'Bali River will be constructed eighty
kilometers from Bangui, and three kilometers to the North East of the Route
Nationale No.1 which links Bangui to the Cameroon Republic. Upstream of the
dam, and for five kilometers below it, the M'Bali river flows in a steep valley
cut in a plateau over 600m. above m.s.l. At the edge of the plateau are the
M'Bali Falls, a local tourist attraction, and the existing hydropower plants,
Boali 1 and Boali 2.
2.    The reservoir behind the dam would stretch 30 km, and would have a
surface area of approximately 42 sq.km. As the M'Bali River has a number of
tributaries, the reservoir would have a spindly dendritic form, and the RN No.1
will be cut in a number of places, yet to be determined. According to the
consulting engineers, there will be a need for a seven kilometer road diversion
in one place, and an "ouvrage de franchissement" or causeway of undefined type
in another. Analysis of the Public Works profile drawings of the R.N. No.l.
indicates that in the stretch of road between Boali and Bossembele, the
following parts of the road could be affected:
length of road itindated    vertical height of
at 576 m. level            affected road
point 1              288.8m.                         7.03m.
point 2              150m.                          0.5m.
point 3              636.84m.                       6.24m.
point 4              525m.                          4.19m.
point 5              2,307.42m.                     9.lm.
point 6              340m.                          6.5m.
Thus at the 576m level the lake would, according to public works data, cut the
RN Nol in six places, actually inundating 4.25 km of the road. Even at the
lower operating level of 572m. the road will be cut in five places. The
contractor currently marking the perimeter of the lake at the 576m level will
give an indication of the places where the road will be cut, although as the
consulting engineers have doubts about the datum used by the Ministry of Public
Works, it would be advisable to carry out an independent check.
3.    The project area ha3 an annual rai gall of 1,500 - 1,600 mm, and 125 days
of rain a year. The climate is classed as Sudano-Guinean, with average annual
maximum and minimum temperatures of 31 C and 19 C.



ANNEX 2.7
Page 2 of 5
4.    The potential lake area consists maiD.ly of river and stream valleys,
within which are well established gallery forests, and which will
be partially flooded. The potential lake will also cover part of the
surrounding wooded savannah. A study made by the Forest Department provides an
estimate of the standing timber at 155,000 cu.m., most of which is suitable for
firewood, charcoal and local construction. A small proportion of the timber is
of commercial quality. The Forest Department estimates the total value of the
timber to be over CFA F 331 million. The project area also provides the
natural habitat of a laige number of fauna, several be'longing to protected
species.
5.    While the dam and two thirds of the reservoir would be in the Sous-
Prefecture of Boali, the remainder would be in Bossembele Soas-Prefecture. The
higher administrative unit is the Prefecture of l'ombella M'Poko.
6.    The construction of the dam will involve a labor force of several hundred
expatriates and possibly 1000 local hires. The contractor will construct a
camp near to the dam site, but the majority of the labor force will live in the
Sous Prefecture town of Boali Croisement. At the time of contract negotiations
the Borrower will request the contractor to take steps to ensure adequate
hygiene and sanitation by the provision of site and services for any temporary
township which may develop nearby.
Human Population
7.    The project area is eccupied by settled agricdltnralists, most belonging
to the Gbanu tribe (but also Ali people), and Mbororo (Fulani) pastoralists.
As a result of a villagizacion program launched in 1968, most of the Gbanu live
in permanent villages along the RN E.'$ and number about 1,100 people.
Although the peoples' permanent hos.s s.ae situated in the villages along the
highway, they spend much of six months of each year, from January to July,
living in the gallery forest along the river and its major tributaries.
Agricnlture
8.    The Gbanu cultivate cassava, their staple food, on fields in the savannah
zone. Depending on the soil type, black or red, they can cultivate for five or
three years in the same place, each with fallow periods of ten years. Soils
in the gallery forests are more fertile and permit continuous cultivation for
ten years, with fallow periods varying from 2 to 10 years. The gallery forests
are used for growing maize, bananas, coffee and oil palm. In addition, the
people catch fish and hunt game. Many of the people farm land on the far side
of the M'Bali river where there is no road.
9.    The people living in the project area have been benefitting from an IFAD
funded project (Proderom) of progressive agricultural improvement through three
stages. Stage 0 is the existing level; under Stage 1 farmers are taught
improved husbandry, to optimize plant spacing and to use treated seeds. Stage 2
includes Stage 1 steps plus the provision of improved seeds, and Stage 3
increases the cultivated area under groundnut and cassava, and introduces



ANNEX 2.7
Page 3 of 5
upland rice. As of 1987, 79% of the people in the project area were still in
Stage 0; 8% were in Stage 1, 5% in Stage 2, and 8% in Stage 3. Table 1 shows
the area and net production per household in 1987. The Proderom project will be
completed in 1990, but a new phase is likely to be approved which will run to
1993 or 1994.
Table 1: CULTIVATED AREA AND NET PRODUCTION
(i.e.dried cassava chips, shelled ground nuts, hulled rice)
(Proderom data)
Cultivated Area          Yields
per household            kg/ha
Cassava             0.36                 2,237
Groundnut           0.20                   715
Maize               0.14                   735
Sesame              0.02                   370
Rice                0.003                  861
For the people in the project area depending upon agriculture for primary
needs, Proderom carried out surveys in 1986 which indicate that over and above
the value of their subsistence, aetimated to equal CFA F 81,000, the people in
Stages 0,1 and 2 have an estimated net disposable ir.come of CFAF 12,500, 33,250
and 41,750 respectively. (No data -.vailable for 1987, which includes farmers
already in Stage 3)
10.   All the land in the project area belongs to the state.
However, the Gbanu perceive land as a resource inherited from their ancestors.
Under the project, no payment would be made for the loss of the reservoir area,
although people should be compensated for crops and any other property lost as
a result of the project. However, at the time of project appraisal no policy
in respecc of compensation had been formulated, but the compensation mechanism
will be thoroughly reviewed and agreed under the Envirormental and Resettlement
Action Plan.
11.   The Mbororo are pastoralist, practicing transhumance within a 50 km.
range. No Mbororo are likely to be resettled, as their houses are far away from
the reservoir area. Apart from occasional disputes arising as a result of
cattle damaging crops, the Gbanu and Mbororo have a mutually beneficial trade
relationship, in which the Gbanu sell agricultural products, and the Mbororo in
turn sell milk and meat to the Gbanu.
Environmental and Resettlement Action Plan
12.   At the time of project appraisal there was neither an Environmental
Action Plan nor a Resettlement Action Plan, and very few of the activities
agreed upon in the Aide Memoire of November 1987 had been started. The Director
of Operations, Mission M'Bali, had initiated actions in respect of most of the
key activities such as the formation of the committee, but had not received the
support of the Director General of Enerca, on whom all project decisions rest.



ANNEX 2.7
Page 4 of 5
13.   During appraisal the environmental consultant thoroughly briefed the
Director of the Mission M'Bali on what must be included in the Action Plan,
including review of relevant laws, records of decisions taken and policies
formulated, the results of surveys, and the designation of which agencies would
do what, where, when at what cost. In addition a copy of the informal Bank ncte
on "Social Issues In Involuntary Resettlement Processes" was also left with the
Director. (Unfortunately, at the time of the appraisal mission this document
was only available in the English language). A timetable in the form of a bar
chart of activities required to enable the Action Plan to be drawn up, was
worked out in conjunction with the Director, (Attachment 1). The Mission Aide
Memoire made it clear that the Environmental Action Plan (which includes the
Resettlement Action Plan) must be submitted to the Bank for review prior to
departure of the CAR team to Washington to take part in project negotiation.
Organization
14.   The Government has established a committee to coordinate all the
activities connected with the environment and resettlement. The committee
consists of representatives of the Ministries of: Forests, Hunting, Fisheries
and Pisciculture; Public Works; Rural Development; Interior; Health; Justice;
Planning; Energy, Enerca and the Mission M'Bali. Enerca agreed to appoint a
full time Resettlement Officer by March 22, 1988. The Committee met for the
first time during the appraisal mission, and is expected to meet regularly from
now on.
Policies
15.   One of the first tasks of the committee mentioned above, is to formulate
policies for government approval on a number of issues, namely:
-     dislocation allowance to cover damages resulting from
hardship, lost income, wages, etc.,
-     compensation for persons whose houses and other immovable
property is to be itnundated,
-     compensation for persons who must move to
other houses because there is insufficient
land nearby to support them,
-     compensation for persons whose crops are inundated,
-     decide on which Ministry should coordinate resettlement at
the local level, e.g. Ministry of the Interior.



ANNEX 2.7
Page 5 of 5
Reservoir Perimeter
16.   At the time of project preparation there had been no ground survey to
mark the limits of the future reservoir. As this is essential before the
effects of inundation on houses, crops and infrastructure can be assessed, a
local contractor was identified and a contract signed based on terms of
reference drawn up by the Bank. During appraisal this work was inspected while
in progress. Wooden pegs are inserted into the ground to mark the 576m level
of the reservoir, and at intervals, concrete marker posts are placed in the
ground.  White paint is used on rocks and trees near to each marked position,
and every fourth mark is in red paint. The terrain is even more difficult to
survey than the contractor had envisaged prior to taking on the work, and in
response to a request to stop work at the onset of the rainy season in June, it
was suggested that two survey teams instead of one be used. Provision was made
for Enerca to purchase additional surveying equipment with PPF funds, and to
lend it to the contractor should this prove necessary.
17.   Since the 576m level is the flood limit of the dam, the contractor has
been requested to place marks on all roads crossed by the 572m operating level.
Similarly, when evaluating crops which will be inundated, only owners of those
fields lying below the 572 m level. will be eligible for compensation.
Soil Survey
18.   Terms of reference were drawn up by the Bank for a reconnaissance and
semi detailed soil survey, the purpose of which is to locate alternative farm
land, both savannah and gallery forest, for people whose farms would be
inundated. A contract was signed with the Bureau des Sols during the appraisal
mission's visit, and the work should be completed within four months. For
purposes of the Environmental Action Plan (EAP), the recon.. issance level of
the survey will have to be used as the semi-detailed survey will not be
completed in time.
19.   The soil survey also includes the collection of information about the
people already living and farming in the area being surveyed. The Bureau des
Sols has recently carried out two similar surveys in the North of the country
to find land for refugees from Chad. For the project they are to
locate 1,500 ha to replace the fields inundated by the lake, although it is
estimated that slightly over 1,000 ha would be sufficient to support the
population indefinitely using their traditional system of land rotation.
Costs - Environ=ental/Resettlement
20.   Appendix 1 of this annex provides a preliminary cost breakdown for the
preparation phase and ultimate implementation of the environmental and
resettlement action program. Costs are broken down in local and foreign cost
components and, by year, over the project period 1988-1991. Total base cost of
the program is estimated at approximately 960 million FCFA (US$3.1 million).
(A contingency allowance of at least 25 Z should be added to this sum given the
preliminary nature of the cost estimate.)



inn. uNRnC faic                                                               an W.
UWMJI S KUB9I
* ~~~~~Lm                                                  REIW                     N 1        E IUTIL isfiU
lmtwy of mwflslds        I.Si:w   I ma     ima 1. 1:   1                           :       :m       :IT.011    :.    I5              O:   0ma   :      .
pvmla of. w wiwu                            . 1. .           1.I               **       *  I.                             ..     0.       11.01    00,      00t 1
"M                           1.0 :    1.0 1. 127.5. :          27.01                                         o.o::   27.51    0.0:    0.0:         .0    27.5
sc1-Ku       cd1       3u0: .51:   29:                   .0       1.0     24.511   0.       0*:oo:           0        00: 2t5.51    01.0         0.01,   0.01,  24.
Ia~~~~yof~~~~/fiaIds  :    a.s:    1.51     3.0:1         1       :                      00:1      1.51    1.51     0.0.    0.0:    3.0~0.  010 0.0  .0  00  0.
Imtugfawu   ouM30::                            .0 03            3.      90: .031:%. i                 1               001:    0.01   12.30       0.0:    0.01   10.0
kWdwm    rd   c                  1txtm  18.00                     10.    0e3.  13.011  10.0 ::   1.0 1    0.01                                   0.0:   20.0    15.0
Uk,aOTfcmd6JrdWViihI1S                      15.  19.01               1   15.0.1                                       001       0.01    16.01    0.01     0.0    18.0
Foresat rIl    1.01.0                            0:.   1.1.0      01     4.05 H    001       .   10.                  0.01      1.0     V.01    1.01      1.0    47.0
50.5121.85   13.01   10.0.1 74.31            0.01   li-0.01        0.0 00.    0011   510.5   17.91    1.01.01i5.            MJ.
Fjwr3m law                                                          4 .  1..           .                               01       001     00        .0.0 .010.0
*  I   20.01    30.01~~~ 3.0      .1        .0       0       X               901.001 0120.01   Y                  10.01   13.0
~~&u.6bidpca~~~~stnzt1~~~~  :      : ~~~.o:   ao.o    .01:             I3.: aoo                         .        .1.001    40o1    2.0    15.
~~rp~~$arnshla~~~az~~s     1   13.01 ~~~ 1.       :.  2501:.:                             1       1 1.01         00       00 .0.01    5.0
FarM1e~~~~~1M~~Mq          15~~.01    1.51  52.01    1.   21.51    20.0    20.01    10.01          1.    50.0 :1    0.o:1  27.5       150.0:1   0.01    779.5
F*tata1                         1   15.0    52.5    653.0 1   4.0   1 12.0       26.0    l2.0    20.0    12.0 1 01.0 11 4.0 1   7.5 1   0.01.0    0   1 37.5
Fpwv 1: hv*slww   2.0      - .0 -    4.0     4.0    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.0  4   4        4                4    2           40     4,*       .0     1.
rbauioq  suit                                   1140I.01       10  26.01              1        1                        11:     .          :1.0  .01       11*0LO
Fi,1atu                         .        1m       1   5.0  3.    0   115    1         10.10                    10.       11.   0.       :. 150.0:            11O 5.0
FMIKhia &W*                                      :10   1       1.:  :   LO.::              1.   :.   5.              5.0       0.          110    .  6.        10  .0
latin' uplv                                      3~~~~~60  1.  1.  1.0 6.03.1  120 3.   17        1.00.     3.  4:     0          1.  3   1   1330    1320
9*WNDTOTA                          810.0        103    510       65.    59.5       06.01I  W0          .0    3715      0011    0.01   12.0   520.01   14.5.  92.0



ANNEX 2.7
Appendix 2
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
Unite - Dignit6e - Travail
MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE DES MINES DE LA GEOLOGIE
ET DE L'HYDRAULIQUE
PROJET BARRAGE DE
LA M'BAL I
VOLET ENVIRONNEI4ENT DU PROjg.T
ET RECASEMENT DE LA POPULATION
PLAN D'AOTION
DIRECTION GENERALE DE L'ENERCA
Avenue de l'Ind6pendance B.P.880             NOVEMBRE 198B



PREAMBULE
L aqc'1lomeration de Banqui. ast actuel.lemenr. ai2mente.e en
I
energle electrique Par les troi.s sources de Production suivant.es.
LA CENTRALE DE B0AL  1I
Equipement realise proqressivenient entre 1955 er 1970
Fourniture Franco-Italienne de turbines type Franc2s a axe norizon-
tale.
Hauteur de chute brute 60 m.
Derivation de debit au fil de l'eau 20 m3/sec.
5 groupes susceptibles de four-nir une puissance maximale
de 8.75 MW.
Cette installation subit d mportantes baisses de produc-
tion pendant les periodes d'etiaqe.
LA CENTRALE DE BOALI 2.
Equipement prevu en deux phases.
La premi6re phase est achevee et mise en service en  'lt.,
De fourniture -rouqoslave tENERGO PROJLKTI. cLet .i-ujpernent
comprend entre autre des turbines lype Francis a axes ver-Licales.
Hauteur de chute 69 in.
OD6bit. deriv  36 m3/sec
Debit utilise' 18 n3/sec
La prise d'eau n'etant pas construite pour un ,coc>;aqe,
la difference de d6bit est perdue pendant les saisons humides.
Nombre d'unit4s 2, susceptibles de fournxr Line puissance
maximale de 10,1 MW.
Situde en amont de Boall I en cascade sur la w5mam  ri-
viere la M'BALI, cette Centrale subit elle aussi les variations
de production pendant les p6riodes d'etiaqe.
LA CENTRALE THERMIQUE DE BANGUI.
_______________________________
Elle est equipee de groupes thermiques Diesal-Alterria-
teurs.
Nombre d'unites 8
Puissance installee 10,1 MW
Contraint.res ma.leures, cout prohibiti.f de Produit p6tro-
lier et instabilite dans 1'exploitation.
Le Gouvernement Centrafricain s'est penchd sur le
probldme d'instabilit6 de production d'energle electrique et adop-
te la solution de reallser un barrage d'accumulation pour le
stockage du surplus de d6bit de la M'Bali afin de stabiliser la
production hydroelectrique et minimiser les frals de prodults
petroliers necessaires au fonctionnement de la Centrale de Bangui.
C'est ai.nsi qu en 1984, Le dossier du projet de barrage
sur la M'Ball sera soum3s a la reunion des Co-Financiers qui don-
neront leur accord de principe Pour le'tude de faisabilite dudit
projet.
2



Le financement des travaux de cette Atude -era assure
par la Caisse Centraie de Coop6rataon Economique [rancaiSe pour
une enveloppe d'environ 450 miliions (:e francs CFSt.
HISTORIOUE DLi PROJET -
1985 -  Signature du marche d'etudes
Fir  1986 - Achevement de I 'etude technique et technioo-0co-
nomique par '1 nqenieur-Conseil COYNE et BELLIER.
CARACTERISTIQOiES PRINCIPALES DE L'OIJVRAGE
- Lonqusur en crete du barrage 780 m
- Hauteur    30 m
- Capacitg de stockaqe 250 millions de m6 trpe, ilMxte
beton et remblais,
La partie en beton sera 6quip6e d'une centrale denom-
mee BOALI 3.
ELQUIPEMENT A PREVOIR
2 turbines type kaplan
puissance installee environ 9 MW.
1987 - Preselection d'entreprises sur accord de 5 bailiLeurs de
fonds (BIRD, BAD, BEl, UCCEL et l:onds Koweitlen)
- Lancement des appeis d'offres pour ia realisation du
pro3et.
- Evaluation du projet par les bailleurs de fonds.
La Banque Mondiale met en evidence 1inquietude de 1-im-
pact du projet sur l'environnement et d6siqn6 un consultant a cet
effet.
Elle propose une enveloppe d'avance de financement du
projet (PPF) au Gouvernement Centrafricain qui l'accepte
(450.000 $).
Sur 1 enveloppe du PPF, diff4rentes operations ont ete
menees pour 1 etudes de l'impact du pro let sur 1'envi-
ronnement. 11 s aqit des travaux de de'imitation materielle du
lao de la retenue. des etudes pedoloqlques pour le transfert des
zones culturales, recensement SocLo-Lconomique et D6moqraphique
de la population de la zbne du projet.
Trois autres interventions sont prevues d'etre finanoees
dans 1'enveloppe principale du projet ; le debolsement de l aire
de la retenue et le reboisement du pourtour du lac.
3



(N;RELAlON D: L(A CELLULE DE (GEST ION ,UJ PIROJET
DE 8ARRAGE S'UR LA tl 9  ASLf.
Cette cellule est olacee sous la Direction tAne'raie de
1'ENERCA et animee par un Directeur da pro,iet. (Voir Arr8te's
Nos O15/87.MEM.CAB.SG du 02 luillet 1987 nommant Mr 11BOUSSA G.
et 032/MEMGH/SG/DGE du 12 Aout 1988 nommant. Mr NGAPOC1 P..
PLAN D'ACrION POUR L_HARMONISATION DE
L'ENVIRONNEMENT DU PROJET
Le projet de barraqe de r4qularisation sur la M'1ali
va se realiser dans la Sous-Pretecture de Boali-croisemenr..
Le site retenu Pour l ouvraqe est denomme site pont de
lianes. Ce site est a environ 6 Km en amont de la prise d'eau
de Boali 2.
Le cours de la M'Bali a ces endrolts Jonfle une tonne
partie de la route nationale No I sur laquelle sont reqroupes
plusieurs villages dont les habitants ont une actvl.vlU essential-
lement agro-pastorale.
Les travaLUx de r-ealisation du proiet et. J Innondation
provoquee par la mise en eau du barrage atfecteronr. tcut. OU
partie de cette Population et modifieront sensbliemsntc laur
mode de vie a court. moven et lonq terme.
L'aire inondable par la retenue couvrira lune superticie
de 5.000 hectares noYant la flore qui s y trouve at. menaQant
d'inonder quelques villages et champs.
Les villageois ne pourront plus utiJ]ser- ces ter-ies a
-d'autres fins ciu'a% la peche dont les methodes devront CvoLuer.
A ce jour, l'Arpenteur SARL a d6.iA couvert toute la
z6ne inondable de ia rive drolte oe la M 13all et se- a'qulpes
ont entamg la rive qauche. Env3ron 55% des travaux sont reali-
ses.
Las resuitats des travaux de dli3mitation sur Ja rive
droite sont ceux qui nous interessent le plus. En effet., c est
sur la rive drolte qua passe la RNI sur 17,quelle se tYrouve tes
villages.
Le bureau de qeometre a produit une carte au 3L/5.000
a titre d'information. Sur cette carte, les vziliaqes ont ete
positionnes par rapport a la limite de la z.5ne inondable.
Ce premier resultat permet de mettre dela en evidence ce quI
suit :
I)- La flore de i'aire de stockage sera enqlouLte par
les eaux.
2)- Beaucoup de terres cultivabls utills-es jusqu'ici
:par la population de la z6ne seront inondees d'une manibre per-
manente.
3)Les champs de cultures perennes comme bananerales,
palmeraies etc... seront inondes.
4



4)- tertains villages teis que :
a)- BUGANI et BOUTINl Sous-pr4fecture de  BoaJA au.
PK 1083 de banqui
BOGBAYELE Sous-pr4fecture de Bossenib6le' au
PK i1.b de Bangu1.
Ces villaqes seront menac,2s par L inondation Rt
touche's par les travaux (d4querPissemert.).
b)- IBYALI-YONGOMO bous-pre'ecture  de Sossemb414
au PK 120 de Banqui. Ce village sera touche
par la derivation de la route (dequerpj.s-
sement a etudier).
5)- frois ouvrages dart seront inonde's ainsl que la
partie de la RNI situee entre les villages Bogbaydlg et Bovaii-
YorC;omo.
Des deviations  d'environ 8 Km et des construetions de
nouveaux ouvraqes d'art sur la RNI dolvent etre envisaqe'es. La
Direction Generale aes rravaux Publics a propose une etude d un
-nontant de 20.00.0C)o F CFA
Le contrat entre 1'Arpenteur 43ARL et le Gouvernement
Centrafricain avait 6te sign6 pour un montant de 27.480.21.2 F.-
CFA. Mais ce contrat va conduire a un avenant du a la
longueur du perim&tre du lac qui, dans i'etude technique, n"a
pas pu etre blen estimee.
Eu eqard A ce qui prgeode, le Gouvernenient se dolt da
prendre des dispositions tendant a aider la population de la
z6ne du projet a pr6venir les impacts negatifs et a maximiser
l'utilisation des avantages qui decouleront du projet. C'est
pour ce but que.les actions suivantes sont prevues :
I - DELIMITATION DIJ LAC CREE PAR LA RETENUE DU BARRAGE
--------------------------------------------------_
Cette operation sur le financement PPF de la Banque
Mondiale a 6t6 confibe sous contrat au cabinet de Ge'ometres
ARPENTEUR SARL represente par sor, Directeur Monsieur Olivier
OGBOULOBOUGNADE.
- Le contrat signe le 8 Mars 1988 pour un coOt de 27
* millions de F CFA environ, Las travaux du cabinet de Geometres
consistent a :
- Dseimiter et materialiser par des bornes en beton
le pourtour du lac a la c5te 576.
- Calculer la superficie ree:le du lac.
- Sortir des cartes au 1/25.000
Le tout base sur les reperes topographiques laisses
par l'Inqenieur Conseil dans l'axe du barrage. Le Gouvernement
a eu a financor le materiel topographique compiementaire
pour une valeur de 1,6 millions de F.CFA et la lonqueur- contrac-
tuelle du p6rimetre du lac Larqement couverte   condulal ia
. signature d'un avenant au contrat de base.



11 - ETIJDES AGRO-PEt)ULOGIQUES
Les etudes aqro-pecaoiogiciues onr. ate confi,d3es -.Njs
contrat siqnE le 22 lMars i98b au Buureau Nationa.L dcse Pecc.locne
et de Conservation de sois (BSN.WP.C.C..).
L'Opgration consiste 'a la reconnaissance de la qualite' dei
sols cultivables ut lise5 jus54u)jca par les villageols de l.a
z6ne du proiet. a inventorier les difftrentes cultures 1.,rat2-
quees et a e'tudier la r6installation des terres aqricol. en
dehors de la zone inondable.
Les travaux sont realis"s a ce jour a 85%. Le rapFort
final est en attente. En plus des rapports d7avancement, de tra-
vaux, le B.N.P.C.S. a d63A sorti plusieurs cartes aUli25.0(O seur
lesquelles sont positionnges pistes, routes, vilLaqes. oif-
ferentes categories de terres et les cours d'eau.
Eu egard a la qualite et la quantite aes r4sultats obte-
nus, en dehors des pr6iudices moraux, la rdinstajiaticin aes
terres agricoles ne deval.t pas poser de problemes ma.ieiurskvoir
cartes annexges).
III - RECENSEMENlT SOCIO-ECONOMIQUE El DEMOGRAPHIQUE IiE IA
= _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-_ _   _ .   _ ...   ....
POPIJLATION DE LA ZONE DU PROJET
Ces travaux ont gt6 confges sous contrat, slgn_ ia '2 mars
1988 au Bureau Cantral de Recencement (8.Q.R. .
Montant 2.474.819 F. CFA.
Les travaux sont avances a /O. tLes resultate Jes cravaux
montrent que le total de la population de la zone est de i.459
habitants a activite aqrlcole predominante.
ETAT DES VILLAGES MENACES DE DEGUERPISSEMENT
-------------------------------: - ~-   =-- ^- --   ---r_ _= =r =
!  !S!Nombr.de !Nombr.de-!Nombr.de ! Proportion
(Village    !Populat.!ces habit!menages  ! champs  ! de cultiv.
3   IBOGBAYELE  ! 41    ! 2  14                   34        97%
1BOYALI     !         !         !
!YONGOMO    ! 246    ! 42       ! 61        154      !    xl t
Les cultures pratiquees concernent en grande partle le
manioc, le mais, les arachides, les lequmes traditionnels comme
le gombo etc..
On rencontre au niveau des villaqes quelques arbres frul-
tiers tels que les manguiers, les avocatlers. les papavers etc..
Les habitants pratiquent l'elevaqe familial de cabris,
cochons, poulets. Certains villages sont habites par des M'8OR0RO
qui eux, elevent des vastes troupeaux de boeufs (Zebus).
La population de la zone est de predominance GBANOU-, sous
groupe d'ethnie GBAYA,
6



IV - LE DE0OI'3EMENT DE l_ AIRE DE I.. fl PE
La co6te finale de la retenue j72 arrste, to,r--, e  Ia: --unlInOn
des Bailleurs de fonds des 30 et 31 Aout 1988 'a WTid.ian enrraine
une superficie inondable de 5000 ha environ.  ;ette  .n'nlati,iri
atteindra les forets galerles, une partie des savanes cur tfp
rives contenant des cultures, un vijiaqe sittu6 dans ! :!OUS-
prefecture de Bossemb1el  at environ sept kilometres cir La riOLIte
nationale No 1.
Le village inonde est celui de
BOYALI-YONGOMO   - Nombre d'habitants :  ;
- nombre de cases        42:
- nombre de mgnaqes  : 1
- nombre de champs   : 154 dont 14 charnPs
de cultures de rentes et 140 de cultures salsonnieres.Quant au
villaqe  BOGBAYELE,il sera 6loigne du nouveau tr-ace de la route.
BOGBAYELE          -  Nombre d'habitants       4L
-  nombre ce cases       -1i4
-  noinbre de menaqe-       14
-  nombre de champs      =4 aont ,i cn3mr!js de
cultures de rentes et S0 de cultures salsonni6res.
- Proportion de cultivateurs : 9/7i.
Ces deux villaqes situes en bordure de la rouw.a nationale
No 1 a la limite des Sous-prefectures de Bossembe1l  et ae doati
ben6ficient de cette proximit4 pour ecouler facilement iur5  dif-
fdrents produits a predominance agro-pastoraux.  La dc4viatl..c0  de
cette route obligera les hatitants de Boyall 2-Yonqmino a se cep1a-
cer vers de nouveaux points de vente pour assurer la commerciail-
,ation de leurs produits.
Les deux villages doivent etre dedommaqes et re n5tal-
lds aux abords du nouveau tracd de la route. A cet effet. le
comite d'environnement institue par arrete ministerie1 rNo (30/
MEMGH.CAB.SG. du 16 juillet 1988 preconise la politique de
dedommagement suivante
DEDOMMAGEMENT DES CASES
Il se fera sur la base de forfait comme generalement prati-
qud en RCA. Les cases en terre et paille seront payees a cinquan-
te mille francs CFA (50.OOOF). par case et celles en terre et
t6les deux cent mille francs CFA (200.000 F).Par case.
Les couts de ce dddommaqement seront/arretes
BOGBAYALE :
- cases en paxiles et terre : 10 X 50.000 = 500.000 F.C.'A
- Cases en terre-toles         3 x 200.000 = 800.000 F.CFA
TOTAL :              1.300.000 F.CFA
BOYALI 2-YONGOMO :
- Cases en pailles-terre      39 x 50.000 = 1.950.000 F.CFA
- Cases en tbles-terre           3 x 200.000   600.000.F.CFA
TOTAL                2.550.000. F.CFA
7



De nombreuses rencontres ont eu lieu entre la d6oartement
de l'Interieur et celui de l'Ener'ie afin de mettre au point la
politique de sensibilisation. Cette sensibiLlsatlon a ete menge
avec l'aide des autoritgs locales (Prgfet.Sous-prefet, Ma3res,
chefs de villaqes).
La sensibilisation s'est Poursuivie avec les intervenants
dans les operations de la d6limitation du pourtour du lac. du
recensement de la population, l'tude pe5dologique .wusqu.a ces
jours. De cette sensibilisation se dgqaqe un concensus entre les
populations ooncernees par ce dequerpissement at les autorltes
administratives.
En dehors du dedommagement il est prevu un lotissement
dans la z6ne qui sera proposee pour le recasement de la popula-
tion concernee. Les lots seront affectes a chaque menage afin de
batir les nouveaux loqements. Pour resoudre les probl'emes de
chefferies entre les deux villaqes. une qrande art.re materialisera
la limite entre les deux villaqes.Une partie de mat6riaux pr6levgs
(bois) seront distribu6s aux habitants afin de les aider a re-
construire.
Le cout estime des travaux de preparation du terrain est oe:
1) Location d> engins lourds :
- un D7 pour 3 j3ours a raison de 7 h/,Iour
220.000 x 3 = 660.000 F CFA
- une nivelleuse pour 3 .ours a raison de 71/Viour
126.000 x 3 - 378.000 F CFA
- deux camions bennes pour le transport de lat2r-ite
et bois.
77.000 x 2 x 3 t 462.000 F CFA
- deux tronconneuses : 10.000 x 3 x 2 r 60.000 F OFh
- carburant : 3.000 litres x 250 r 750.000 F 'F
2) Mains d'oeuvres : dix (10) manoeuvres
700 xlO x 12 jours = 884.20O F CFA
Le cout total des travaux7pr9paration du.terrain de lotissement
s' eleve 'a : 3.194.000 F CFA.
Le regrcupement des deux villages favorise I'linplantatlon
*d'infrastructures scolaires. sanitaires adeqLtates car ,leur dis-
persion ne permet pas de les doter d'infrastructures qui puissent
permettre 1'epanouissement socio-culturel, surtout si l'on salt que
les enfants a 1'aqe scolaire sont oblig&s de parcourir plus de
vingt (20) kilometres par jour pour se rendre a 1'ecole, et que
les dispensaires les plus proches sont situes a plusieurs dizaines
de kilometres.Le cout de construction d'une ecole, durn dispen-
saire, de forage de puits se chiffrent a environ quarante
millions de francs CFA
CoOt total pour le recasement de la populat.ion
quarante six millions deux cent quarante quatre mille francs cfa.
(46.244.000 F.CFA).
8



Parallelement a cs- ac iins (le de.dommaqement, iL est. prevu
le lotissement des z6nes cuitivables d apres les etuaes nedo:o-
giques.  Le PRODEROM (Proqramme de l)eveloppement de la Re6q.on de
l'Ombella M'Poko) solidement implant6 dans les regions concernees
e1abore un programme d'appui technique pour 1'encadrement
des populations rurales dans le domaine de .laqriculture.
Outre ceu, du PRODEROM, des agents du Mini.st6re de Develop-
pement Rural seront d6taches pour L'enoadrement dans la pratique
des nouvelles cultures.
Dans la r6qion du pro-et existe une population d'6l1veurs
semi-nomades. Compte tenu de I importance de la retenue, une
sensibilisation des eleveurs est a mener conjointement avec les
agents du Minist6re de Developpement Rural affeotd dans la region
afin de les initier aux nouvellee zones de p&t.uraqe.
ACTIONS DANS lE DOMAINE DES FORETr:. (: HASSES,PECHES E'T TOURISME.
Le lac envahara kine part;ae imrcort-ants  de la tDret  ialer!-je
et une action esr Preconis_3e ;our- le deboi-senent,  IN_   il lt.ce
National des Forets) orqanisfmi  d LWat  qua en est sa)si. a
gvalue les taches O eftectuer pour assurer oe deboisement avec
un devi.s des travau> a I a..%tn.  :_e ce i:-sermenr. se tara en ccJ i.-:-
boration etroite avec Ie-. nabtLants de la r.eion et uas z..s .aa.nsl
retires vont d'une part servir a aL.imenter La v3L,e. de banqui
bois de chauffe) ina1s d'autre part, eLie uLiiL.ses kouv La LconsLruc--
tion des maisons.
Le devis Pr'-duirt Ppar L (,I'F    leur  s d6boi-sement faiLt an
ce moment meme lob.iet  des  n6cloc.aL1ans at:n d aboutir a un
march6. Paralielement. I 'Or- en (;oLLabo rat.in avec I cr-anIsme
prive VITA se concertent pour proposer au C-ouvernement une poli.-
tique de commercialisation d.eb        de, .   haufi-e.
Afin d' viter i'erosion des aborde dui lac, l'ONF propose
*galement le reboisement de ces abords. Cette actton de reboise-
ment debuitera des que l'on mettira le barraqe en eau.
Le Ministere dles Eaux, Forets, Chasses,P&ches et touris-
me propose d'initier leur projet. de peches dans la retenue et
promouvoir un volet tourietlaue. Ce proiet consiste a l'apprentis-
sage des pratiques de peches dans une retenue de ce type atin
d'6viter des dangers event,uels.
LES COUTS ESTIME5.:
- Deboisement          210 MiLli.ons de F.GCFA
- Reboisement       : 70 M2llions de F.CFA
9



j1Y%8'DAN8 LE DOMAINE DE LA SANTE
t       L.tt je de ( rpissenient et les perturD;1icns qu a.>rn'rre me
1 t8Ue de ce type dans I'gchosvstame affectant. 1ncru-,ra,.b1 err-it.
`'6pUWLtion et une action viqoureuse (jans ca domain9 e~t. nes--
saire. Cette action se compose de trois voletz :
l-  a sensibilsaticn avec des materieLs didacta.ciues orro
pries en vue d'une meilleure efficacit.e.
-.*  - l'enquete sanitaire qui enqlobe les *livers *aspects
d,'intfirvention Pour 1'appr6ciation de 1 etat de sar.te de la roru-
le.tion concerne'e apres recasement,
- supervision technique par une 6quipe de sants au niveau
central;
Ce progMbmemd action s'etale sur 24 mois. routes ces
actions n6cessitent des movens humains et mat6riel eStimeS suivan7.
le tableau ci-dessous :
TABLEAU D INTERVEN1ION DU MINISTEIIE DE !A SAPNTE 'PtJUL.iAQUE .wr
LE TERRAIN - AVEC LE COUT ESTIMATIF DES TRAVAUX.
No !             !9uree!  Movens   !          ! -Jrl ;x ! Pri.x    I
Ord!  Activites !mois !1lqistiques!Quantite! unit.!        t      Qbseer
=~~=====r===~~~-===: ===::r.   Z:=:_-r_- :=  -             -: .---.:1  : 7 :
1  ISensibilis. ! 24  !Moto-cross !                  ! 35000000!
-  !mater.d.dac.  --     !!            OCOOt)!
i !    Carbur.    !10001   ! .0  !    3500UU!
2  !Enquet.Semi.!12   ICarbur.    110001   !350  !          500C00!
!  !  ILubrif.     ! -      !- *           OXu!
*  !Superv.tech 124   !Carbur.       ILOQ01   ! 3.50  !    .50000!
TOTAL PARTIEL                                      .,. :  5') . 0 0
-    IMPREVU  10-o  555..u00
TOTAL GENERAL                                    o.105.000 F.CFA
10



ESTIMATION DE DEDOMMAGEMENT DES CULTURES IDE RENTE PAR VIILAGE
La plupart des habitants de la lccalte cultivent dans la zo5ne
innondable;leurs cultures seront innondees
on distingue deux sortes de c,ulLures.
- Cultures saisonni6res.
le manioc,le mais,le s6same.le ri!,eto."..
-Cultures de rentes.
banaraies,palmeraies,eto ...
Dans le cadre de la politique de dedommaqement des champs
le comite de 1'environnement a deoid6 compte tenu de la campaqne
de sensibilisation menee auprbs des populations de la zone du
lao depuis 1985, de ne dedommager que les champs de cultures de
rente. Car le comit6 a constate apr6s une visito sur le terrain
que les habitants ont cesse de pratiquer de nouvelles oultures
dans la z6ne du lao depuis un an.
A l'3ssu des travaux de delimitation dJu lac. 1 Arpenteur
S.A.R.L. qui a effectue ces travaux, avait implant6 des bornes par
village qui indiqualent la limite des zones inondables.
Ainsi lors du recensement des populations de la zone du lac,
le Bureau Central de Recensement a suffisamment sensibtils6 Las
habitants des villages concernes par les travaux du barraqe. de
ne plus faire de nouvelles culi,ures saisonnieres sur ie cCt6
droit de la Route 4ationale No I Bangu-Bossembglg.
Dans les Atuc,z, Pgdoloqiques,les respnsables du bureau de
p6dologie ont d6termin6 des terrains propices et tertiles pour
permettre aux habitants de pratiquer des nouvelles cultures.
1 1



No !                 !Nombr.champs !Forfait/cult.! T0TPAL   .'i z.r va t.
Ord! Villaqes        !de ctult.,v-ent;e!20.000 FCFAI
1   Boyali I I        neant         I 
2 I Boutouni 5    ! neant.          I        
I(t3oukende)     I
3   t3Boutounii I.    n:-an~t.-.
4 ! Bozoubolo           i i         I 220.00()      !220.00o      
5 IBogani           I  is           I 300.000       !30(.(000
6 I Boutouni 2      I   2           I  40.000        4.0
7 ! Bodoukpa        I   I.             2a . 00      I2 0 .0
8 I Boesse                          I  w10.000      -I 1. 000  I
9 I Boqbatoua I        neant        I                    -
10 I Bogbavele       I   4           I  13.000        8.0
11 IBoyali 2         I  i.4         I! 260.000       !280'-.000I
(Yonqomo)
12 18ogouin 1        I  neant.                  
TOTAL   GENERAL                                  !98(.C00(C1
Depuis 1Vannge 1985, jusquA a ' ann4e 1988, les habit.ant-,
de la z6ne du lac sont tr?3s conscients, de ia situation et ne ;Dr-a-
-tiquentplus de nouvelles cultures dans la zone limit.e indiqude par
1'Arpenteur S.A.R.L.



La Projet de D6veloppement Rural de L'OmbelLa M'Poko
(PRODEROM) remplit une mission de vulqar-isation aupr.re  des petits
exploitants de sa zone pour ameli-rer las conditions *de La produc-
tion vivri6re et partant, leurs conditions ae vie.
Le but poUrsulvi. par le PRODEROM est  'augmentation du
revenu des exploitants et 1)am6i.ioration de la nutrition aes habi-
tants de la r6qion. Le pro.jet est base str les cultur-es suivan-
tes : manioc, arachide, sesame, mais et riz. Le proqramme couvre
la quasi totalite de la Prefecture de I Ombella-" M'Poko a l. 'ex-
ception de la Sous-prefecture de Bsimbo.
PRODEROM a des aqen,ts tui Lravaille dans la zone tie Boall.
Cet organisme avec son expAgrience acquise sur le terrai.n s&oc-
cupera de lencadrement de ces habitants pour implanter les
nouvelles cultures.-



ANNEXE
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET D'ENERGIE
ADDITIF AU PLAN D'ACTION POUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT
ET LA REINSTALLATION DES POPULATIONS
Introduction
1.        La presente note y compris l'annexe constituent un additif au
Plan d'Action 'Volet Environnement du Projet et Recasement de la Population
Projet Barrage de la M'Bali' (ENERCA, novembre 1988).
Zone du Prolet
2.        Les travaux entrepris sous contrat par Arpenteur SARL seront
achevAs au plus tard le 30 juin 1989; le rapport sera soumis coime prevu au
contrat et copie en sera communiquee a l'Association.
3.        Le recensement de la population touchee directement et
indirectement par l'amenagement du reservoir sera acheve au plus tard le 31
decembre 1988; le rapport sera soumis comme pr6vu au contrat et copie en
sera communiquee a l'Association.
4.        Les resultats de l'enquete d4jA achevee sur toutes les
exploitations pratiquant des cultures perennes (de rapport) indiquant les
superficies exploitees, les cultures pratiquees, et le nombre d'arbres,
seront soumis a l'examen de l'Association
Politigues de compensation e:. de reinstallation
5.        La Republique Centrafricaine dedommagera les proprietaires de la
perte de leurs cultures perennes sur la base d'un barbme de paiements par
arbre ou plantes qui sera communique & l'Association.
6.        Les personnes deplacees ou derangees par l'amenagement du
reservoir recevront une compensation (indemnite morale) sur la base des
taux forfaitaires indiques ci-dessous:
Submersion de l'habitation et de l'exploitation   FCFA 60.000 par menage
Submersion de l'exploitation seulement                    30.000 par menage
Submersion de l'habitation seulement                      30.000 par menage
Ce paiement vient s'ajouter a la compensation dte au titre d'habitation
etlou des cultures perenneb.
7.        Le plan et le calendrier de versement des diverses formes de
compensation, avec des indications sur les organistrs responsables et les
procedures devant etre suivies, seront soumis a l'examen de l'Association
avant le 31 d6cembre 1989.



8.        Le paiement des diff6rentes indemnites sera assur6 par le
gouvernement; le budget total pour ces indemnites est estim6 comme suit:
Habitations submergees                    FCFA 3.850.000
cultures perennes                              1.000.000
indemnites morales                            10.650.000
Total                                         15.500.000
Organisation et coordination des actions pour l'environnement et la
reinstallation
9.        Le Comite interminist6riel de l'environnement se reunira au
moins une fois par trimestre ou A la demande de l'un de ses membres.
10.       La Mission M'Bali sera responsable de la liaison quotidienne et
de la supervision des travaux entrepris par divers organismes pour le
compte d'Enerca au titre du volet environnement et rinstallation. La
Mission M'Bali sera dotee d'un personnel adequat et disposera de bureaux,
vehicules et autree ressources necessaires a l'accomplissement de ses
activites selon le calendrier prdvu.
Reinstallation
11.       L'emplacement oa seront reinstalles les habitants des villages
de Boyali-Yongomo et Bogbayele sera choisi lorsque i'etude technique
relative & la modification du trace de la Route Nationale No. 1 aura ete
achevee et que l'on aura confirmd la disponibilite d'une source adequate
d'eau potable. Des cartes & l'echelle maximale de 1/2500e seront etablies,
indiquant l'emplacement des parcelles, de l'ecole, du centre de sante, de
la voirie, des points d'eau, etc. Ce plan sera exAmine avec l'Association
en mOme temps que le calendrier d'evacuation.
12.       Le Gouvernement mettra des moyens de transport A la disposition
des personnes deplacees pour les aider A transferer leurs biens de leur
ancien village jusqu'au nouveau.
13.       Le Gouvernement s'engage A fournir A l'ecole et au centre de
sant6, le personnel, les fournitures, et le materiel qu'il met normalement
a la disposition des 4tablissements scolaires et sanitaires ruraux, dans un
delai d'un mois A compter de la date d'achevement des bAtiments.
14.       Des credits seront inscrits au budget pour financer les cofts
d'exploitation et d'entretien de l'ecole et du centre de sante. Le
Gouvernement prendra les mesures ndcessaires pour assurer
l'approvisionnement en eau potable des populations deplacees.
15.        Le Gouvernement soumettra a l'Association au plus tard le 31
d4cembre 1990 un plan pour l'exploitation des ressources aquatiques.



-3-
Santd
16        Le Gouvernement slengage A prendre des mesures sanitaires
k4equises pendant une periode de trois ans a compter de la mise en eau du
r6servoir. Un plan detaille sera soumis a l1'approbatior, de l'Association
au plus tard le 31 decembre 1989.
17.       On apprendra aux villageois reinstalles, et a ceux qui
continueront A habiter pres du lac, c'est-&-dire A moins de 500 m, comment
installer des latrines A fosse d'un type approprie, afin de minimiser le
risque de contamination du reservoir et donc le risque d'une propagation
des maladies a transmission hydrique.
18.       Des mesures seront prises pour assurer de bonnes conditions
d'hygiene et de securite dans les environs du chantier du barrage et des /
ouvragos connexes, dans les logements occupes par la main-d'oeuvre, sur les
marches, etc.
DMboisement de la zone du rtservoir
19.       L'entree en vigueur de l'Accord de Credit sera subordonnee A la
prdsentation A l'Association d'un plan, qui devra etre juge satisfaisant
par l'Association, indiquant l'emplacement des galeries forestieres et de
la savane et le nombre d'hectares A defricher. Le plan devra aussi
indiquer le mode d'organisation des travaux, la facon dont l'ONG VITA y
sera associee, le mode d'utilisation des produits de vente des bois
abattus, et la facon dont la population qui utilise normalement la foret
participera au programme de deboisement.
* 0.      Un plan juge satisfaisant par l'Association sera presente au
plua tard le 31 mars 1989 concernant l'emplacement, le trace, le coat et la
construction des deux pistes d'acces entre la RN No 1 et le M'Bali. Ces
pistes faciliteront le transport du bois et, plus tard, les produits de la
peche et permettront aux touristes et autres personnes d'acceder au lac.
Reboisement des rives du lac
21.       Un plan juge satisfaisant par l'Association devra etre soumis au
plus tard le 30 juin 1989 pour indiquer la manibre dont sera amenagee et
entretenue la bande foresti6re de 100 metres; ce plan precisera la manibre
dont la population y sera associee.
Deviation de la Route Nationalo No. 1
22.       L'etude (y compris plans et documents d'appel d'offres) relative
a la deviation de la RN No 1 sera preparee par le Laboratoire des Travaux
Publics, achevee au plus tard le 31 mars 1989, et soumise A l'approbation
de l'Association.



Suivi de l'avancement et de l'impact des travaux
23.       Par l'interm6diaire d'Enerca, la Mission M'Bali presentera tous
les troio mois un rapport sur l'avancement des travaux; le premier rapport
devra Atre presente les 31 mars 1989 et, par 2a suite, un nouveau rapport
sera presente chaque trimestre jusqu'& l'achAvement du projet. Ces
rapports seront soumis au Comite de Coordination pour l'Environnement et la
RAinstallation, ainsi qu'& l'Association.
24.       Enerca conclura un contrat pour Avaluer l'efficacit6 des
differentes mesures prises dans le cadre du p.lian d'action pour
l'environnement et la rAinstallation des populations. Cette dvaluation se
fera en deux phases : la premiAre sera conclue au plus tard six mois avant
la mise en eau du r6servoir; la seconde sera entreprise dix huit mois apres
la mise en eau. Le contrat sera conclu au plus tard le 30 septembre 1989
sur la base de termes de r4fArence jugAs satisfaisants par l'Association.
Le 19 novembre 1988



iq-1  - - -R U/ N gWI    IL ~ l7 'l
_____________-  -  -  -                                                   - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4;   -IW.W
la
-0=u-  -        -                          '         -
~~_ t__________                                                                             -w DsrrA'"svlusr D
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                                   ____IUD ,a.7 r _'_wag_ r
__ _____________-  -                                                                  .                                                                         .. W  . 
_ -'--:~~~*        *...                   _-                                                                                      _ ~-siw, a
_=___________ ._ ._&~              3>Wh)1"  t^'9'zi
IKE _ W&       I Wm!                                          JS-   - w3 I f
9-v eiv                                 1.N_4n~~~M W3NOeIAM3e1 3I NGUY5!1qOW'dVH#1  'iflOd  SNOLLOV$  NV1cI



ANNEX 2.8
Page 1 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Justification of Power Component of Project -Least Cost
Analysis
1.       Introduction. A least cost analysis covering generation additions
needed for the Bangui power system was conducted by a firm of reputable
consulting engineers. After extensive field work which included the critical
review of load growth forecasts under various economic outlooks and the
evaluation of likely alternatives, the engineer's determination was that
building a sequence of hydro stations on the M'Bali river would be the cost
solution. The first step needed to implement this generation plan would be
to construct a regulating reservoir on the M'Bali river, about 80 kilometers
northwest of Bangui. The reservoir is sized to store sufficient water during
the wet season such as to optimize the hydrology of the drainage basin over
an entire calendar year. The engineer's conclusions were tested by the Bank
by comparing in economic terms the proposed hydro program versus an all
thermal (diesel) alternative. The underlying premise being - given the
relatively small size of the power syPtem (17 Mw peak demand) -that the most
practical alternative to an all hydro generation plan to meet the forecasted
demand in the planning horizon to year 2005 would be to install a series of
medium speed diesels sized in the 5 MW range. The result of this test
clearly demonstrated that the proposed hydro plan was the lowest in cost on
a net present value basis; the equalizing discount rate (EDR) for the plans
was 20.2Z. A description of the Bank's analysis follows below.
2.       The economic comparison of the thermal (diesel) alternative program
and the hydro alternative program was carried out by calculating the present
value (PV) at year-end 1988 (date at which the disbursements for the hydro
alternative would start) of cumulative annual economic costs through year
2005. Economic costs were defined as: incremental investments; and, the
annual operating and maintenance costs for generation incurred during the
period. Costs of existing or "decided upon' facilities not related to the
investment program were considered sunk costs and were therefore excluded
from the analysis. Taxes and import duties were excluded such as to
approximate shadow prices. Except for fuel, (see item 3(c) below) constant
prices were used. Timing of generating capacity expansions and annual energy
requirements were determined according to Annex 1.4, "Power and Energy
Balance Forecast Bangui Area". Costs for the altezrnative programs are
detailed under Table 1 and Table 2 below.
3.       Key Assumptions- Thermal Alternative (without M'Bali dam)
a)    generation additions would consist of medium speed diesel
units of 5 MW capacity and would utilize diesel oil fuel;
investment cost, including buildings and auxiliary equipment



ANNEX 2.8
Page 2 of 9
were estimated at 328 million FCFA/MW and useful life
was taken as 15 years.
b)     annual operating and maintenance cost (O&M) exclusive of fuel was
estimated at the rate of 3% of the marginal investment cost.
c)     diesel fuel CIF delivered  cost (at plant site) was estimated at
104 FCFA/kilogram in 1987 1 with real price escalation of 2%/year.
Specific fuel consumption was taken at an average rate of 0.24
kilograms/kWh. Other variable costs for lubricating oil and
supplies were estimated at the rate of 10% of fuel cost.
d)     the residual value of investments at the end of the period of
analysis was determined on the basis of linear depreciation.
Table 1. THERMAL ALTERNATIVE (without de*)
Required    Available  Addition   Retire- Invest- Residual          Variable Cost        Total
Year   Capacity    Capecity _ Req.    ments  ments  values   OiA           Cost    Total        Cost
(MW1       (MW)        (MW)                        (FCFA        GWh  (CFAF  FCFA         FC A
x 10 )             kWh) x 109       x 10
1988    20.b       18.6
1989    21.6       18.6
1990    21.8       18.6
1991    26.1       18.6       11.5              2.73   0.18   0.08 84.8  29.6   1.01           3.82
1992    80.0       80.0       10.0      6.0    2.38   0.32   0.16 49.4  30.1   1.49            4.02
1993    81.1       35.0                                        0.16 64.8  30.7   1.68          1.83
1994    38.3       35.0                                        0.15 60.4  31.2   1.92          2.07
1995    34.6       35.0        6.0              1.19   0.40   0.15 66.2  81.9   2.11           3.49
1998    36.8       40.0                                        0.19 72.4  32.8   2.36          2.56
1997    87.2       40.0                                        0.19 78.8  33.2   2.62          2.81
1998    38.2       40.0                5.0      1.19   0.63   0.19 86.5  33.9   2.90           3.09
1999    40.2       40.0        6.0              1.19   0.71   0.23 93.6  34.6   3.23           4.86
2000    41.7       45.0                                        0.26 99.8  36.2   8.61          3.77
2001    43.4       46.0                                        0.28 107.4  36.0   3.86         4.11
2002    46.1       46.0        6.0              1.19   0.96   0.28 116.4  36.7   4.22          6.70
2003    46.4       60.0                5.0      1.19   1.03   0.32 128.8  37.4   4.63          8.14
2004    48.5       60.0                                        0.32 132.3  88.1   6.04         6.38
2006    60.7       60.0                                        0.32 141.4  38.9   5.60         1.80
-4.22
4.     Based on 50 US$/bbl at exchange rate of 280 FCFA/US$.



ANNEX 2.8
Page 3 of 9
4.    Key Assumptions - Hydro Alternative ( with M'Bali dam)
a) demand and energy forecast according to Annex 1.4.
b) thermal kWh generation costs were calculated at prices used in the
thermal alternative, item (3 (c)) above
c) available hydro generation under average annual hydrology
conditions were determined by Coyne et Bellier in a
simulation study.
d) annual O&M cost of dam: 0.5% of investment cost; for hydro
generation, O&M was taken at the rate of 1% of investment
cost;
e) useful life for the dam and related civil works was taken
as 50 years; for hydro generation equipment it was taken as
35 years.
f) rehabilitation of the 110 and 63 Kv transmission lines, as
well as hydro stations Boali 1 and 2 were not considered as
these rehabilitations form part of present maintenance
program, and these decisions are independent of the
decision for construction of the dam. The foregone
benefits of potential sales of firewood of the flooded area
were not considered as part of cost of the project. The
exploitation of such resource could be envisaged only when
lower cost and abundant wood resources of the region are
exhausted. Such a situation is not expected to occur
during the time frame of the analysis and thus would have a
negligible impact in the present value computation.



ANNEX 2.8
Page 4 of 9
Table 2. LEAST COST SOLUTION
HIIRO ALTERNATIVE
Avall-   Thermol          Residual           Thermal    Total
Year   Required   able   Required  Investment  Value    CAM  genrated    Cost
OWh       GWh                           FCFA                       FCFI
x109                      xlO
1988    99.5                        1.68 Dom                              1.68
1989   102.5                        4.64 '                                4.64
1990   108.8                        2.86 '                                2.86
1991   104.8    118                 0.88 '      7.16                      0.88
1992   119.4    118       1.4       1.60 a8             0.06     0.04     1.69
1993   124.8    118       6.8       1.60 B8     2.10    0.05     0.21     1.76
1994   130.8    148.8                                   0.08              0.08
1996   186.2    148.8                                   0.08              0.08
1996   142.4    148.8               1.19 6 W Th 0.48    0.08              1.27
1997   148.8    148.8     6.0       4.00 82 exp. 8.20    0.12    0.17     4.29
1998   166.5    171.8                                   0.18              0.18
1999   162.5    171.3                                   0.16              0.16
2000   169.8    171.8                                   0.18              0.16
2001   177.8    176.7     0.6                           0.18     0.02     0.18
2002   185.1    176.7     8.8                           0.13     0.81     0.47
2008   193.6    176.7    16.9                           0.16     0.68     0.79
2004   202.8    176.7    26.8       1.19 6 M Th 1.08    0.10     0.97     2.82
'-00s   211.4    176.7    84.7                          0.16     1.81    12.60
-18.97
Results:                               Discount Rate
a           OX8  10%   12X
PV Thermal Program  (FCFA x 10)      209   181   166
PV Hydro Program   (FCFA x 109       118   108   104
Equalizing Discount Rate:  20.2X
B. Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) On Entire Least Cost Investment
Program
1.     The internal equalizing discount rate of economic costs and benefits of
the Project (hydro generation investment program including M'Bali dam) was
determined for the Bangui and surrounding area power system for the period
1991-2005. A fifteen year period was considered adequate as the reliability of
data beyond that date becomes increasingly uncertain and,in any instance,
extension of the study period beyond this date would have no material impact on
the present value of the cost/benefit analysis. Except for revenues, shadow
prices were used in the computations. The value of benefits derived from the
project were conservatively estimated- a discussion of this follows below. The
IERR computed may therefore be expressed as a "minimum" or "at least"; the



ANNEX 2.8
Page 5 of 9
result of the computation show an IERR of 14 6% for the Project, a value that
is judged acceptable.
Benefits
2.     Average revenues under estimated 1991 tariffs were used as a proxy to
price sales to determine benefits of the Project. Other benefits both direct
and indirect which would accrue from the Project were not included in the
project e.g., existing high level of self generation would be greatly reduced
if not entirely eliminated; without the rehabilitation/institutional
strengthening component of the Project, Enerca would virtually collapse within
a short period of time with resulting enormous costs to the economy. The
average revenues used were 59 FCFA/kWh and this was applied to total system
sales. Total system sales and revenues for the period 1991-2005 are tabulated
below.
GWh                     Revenues (B)
Year             Sales                      FCFA x 109
1991             87.6                           5.17
1992            101.5                           5.99
1993            105.0                           6.20
1994            110.8                           6.54
1995            115.8                           6.83
1996            121.0                           7.14
1997            126.4                           7.46
1998            132.1                           7.79
1999            138.0                           8.14
2000             144.2                          8.51
2001             150.7                          8.89
2002             157.4                          9.29
2003             104.6                          9.71
2004             17'.0                         10.15
2005             179.7                         10.60
Costs
3.     The costs used in the IERR computation for the generation plan  adopted (
see least cost solution under part A of this annex) are: (a) incremental
investment, operation and maintenance costs for generation and distribution
during the study period (1991-2005); (b) investment cost of generation and
distribution required to supply the demand of the first year of the study
(1991); (c) the annual operating cost of the generation and distribution
facilities included in item (b) and; (d) the cost of the supplemental thermal
energy generated and as needed for peaking purposes during the study period.
Item (b) was determined based on the marginal cost (generation plus
distribution) per MW of system peak demand for year 1991. This was evaluated
at the average incremental investment cost - defined as the PV of incremental
investments (generation and distribution) for the study period (1991-2005)
divided by the PV of the incremental growth in peak demand over the same
period. The cost of the program is the PV of the above mentioned cost



ANNEX 2.8
Page 6 of 9
components. The incremental investment of the distribution component of item
(a) was estimated at an average cost of 150 million FCFA/MW. The operation and
maintenance costs of generation have been estimated at 1% and 4% respectively
of the corresponding investment cost.
4.     The above-mentioned calculation expressed in the form of an equation is
as follows:
PV(B) - PV (I) - 19.2 (c) - PV [0.38(c)] - PV (Th) = 0
Where:
B:        benefits (FCFA x 109)
I:        total incremental cost of the program
Th:       cost of the thermal energy generated during the period
19.2:     Peak MW demand estimated for year 1991
0.38:     annual O&M cost factor corresponding to investments of 1991
(c) = PV (I)
PV (AD)
AD:    growth in annual peak demand during the period (MW)
Numerical valves of the above equation are given below:
Year             B        I               Th           A D
1991          5.17      11.84                          2.1
1992          5.99       0.54             0.04         3.1
1993          6.20       3.27             0.21         1.0
1994          6.54       0.43                          2.0
1995          6.33       0.30                          1.1
1996          7.14       1.57                          1.2
1997          7.46       4.40             0.17         1.3
1998          7.79       0.46                          1.4
1999          8.14       0.47                          1.4
2000          8.51       0.48                          1.5
2001           8.89      0.51             0.02         1.6
2002           9.29      0.53             0.31         1.6
2003          9.71       0.55             0.63         1.7
2004          10.15      1.76             0.87         1.8
2005          10.60    -18.48             1.31         1.9
IERR = 14.6%
Benefits - total cost = 41.5 FCFA x 109



ANNEX 2.8
Page 7 of 9
5.     Sensitivity test on the IERR were calculated for lower rates, higher
costs, and a 1 year delay in achieving Project benefits. Results ares
Test                           IERR (%)
lower rates (at 45 FCFA/Kwh)            11.6
higher costs (+le%)                     13.7
1-year delay                            13.6
Results are displayed graphically on pages 8 and 9 of this annex.



Central Africa Republic
Energy Project - IERR
PV(B)-PV(al costs)
40
30
10 ___    _                      __
o1 .
0
-10
-20     8           10         12          14          16
Discount Rate                              Z*
0
+ Benefits 0 59 FCFA    Benefits 0 45 FCFA



Central Africa Republic
IERR - Sensitivity Analysis
40 PV(B)-PV(all costs)
30                                                            -    _
20 
20            . -      - - - - - - -...- - . ............ ._  _ _ _ _ _ _
10
0
-70
8             10            12             14            16
Discount Rate
Base Case    f   Higher Cost(+ 10%)        Project Delay (lyr)



ANNEX 2.9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION COMPONENT
A. Cost of the petroleum exploration component
Foreign        Local
Categories                              (US$)         (CFAF)
Consultant's services
Fees                          495,000
Living Allowance             (151,800)a/  46.300,000
Travels                       150,000
Contractors services                  515,000
Training                            60,000
Equipment                          120,000
Participation to
a Regional Study                   100,000
Unallocated                        168.200
Total                              1.760,000     46.300,000
B.                         BREAKDOWN IN YEARS
PPF       1st Year    2nd Year        3rd Year
Consultants          58,800         196,000     196,000        196,000
Travels              10,000
Contractors                         395,000      60,000
Others               75,000         135,000      30,000        100,000
Totals              143,800         726,000     286,000        296,000



ANNEX 2.10
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.     Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1.    Plan Quinquennal, 1986-1990, February 1986
Rev.l in French; covers Development plans, Rural development,
Social development, Agricultural development, Energy, Water
supply, Villages, Transport, Urban development, Sectoral
allocation
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Power Component
1.    -  Legal documents governing the operation of the nations power
utility, Enerca
2.   -  Electric power supply to Bangui metropolitan ares, Economic
feasibility study (French and English versions), two volumes,
June 1986, (Coyne & Bellier)
3.   -  Etude de faisabilite technique relative au barrage de
regularisation sur la M'Bali - Report in five volumes,
November 1985, (Coyne & Bellier)
4.   -  Barrage sur la M'Bali, Avant-projet detaille, two volumes,
October 1986, (Coyne & Bellier)
5.    -  Dossier d'appel d'offres, four volumes, January 1987
6.    -  Etude de la rehabilitation et de l'extension du reseau electrique
de Bangui, four volumes
(a) Volume I - Inventaire des donnees evaluations des besoins
(marche de l'energie), 1987 (TECSULT-HQI)
(b) Volume II - CoQts unitaires et marginaux, choix economiques et
techniques, criteres de planification, 1987 (TECSULT-HQI)
(c) Volume III - Plan directeur programme d'Equipement, Hay 1985,
(TECSULT-HQI)
(d) Volume IV - Enveloppe budgetaire et factibilitE, 1987, (TECSULT-HQI)
(e) Volume V - Fonction commerciale et tarification, 1987 (TECSULT-HQI)



ANNEX 2.10
Page 2 c' 3
7.    -     Etude de regularisation de la M'Bali et de lextension
de la centrale de Boali 2, March 1986, (Coyne &
Bellier)
8.    -     Analyse et prevision de la demande d'electriciti, March
1986 (Coyne & Bellier)
9.    -     Etude tarifaire pour le developpement du service public
de l'electricite Enerca, 1987
iO.  -      Etude de la rehabilitation et de l'extension du r;seau
de Bangui Revue et commentaires du rapport TECSULT HQI,
October 1987 (E. Gain)
11.   -     Nouvelle consultation des entreprises pour la
realisation des travaux de construction Rapport
d'analyse des offres, July 1988, (Coyne & Bellier)
12.   -     Rapport de la Commi3sion ad hoc chargee de l'analyse
des offres relatives a la realisation du projet de
barrage de regularisation de la M'Bali, July 1988
(Commission ad hoc)
13.   -     Proces-verbal d'attribution dii marche, July 1988,
(Commissi.on nationale des marches)
14.   -    Aminagement hydro-electrique de la M'Bali, barrage et
genie civil de l'usine Boali 3, organisation de la
maltrise d'ouvrage, December 1986
Petroleum Exploration Component
1.          Petroleum Code (Ordinance No.73/016 - Recherche,
exploitation d'hydrocarbures)
2.    -     Exploration agreement with the consortium of oil
comapanies Continental Overseas Oil Company and Shell
Centrafrex
3.    -     Decret 73 031:  permis exclusif de recherches
d'hydrocarbures pour Continental et Shell
4.    -     Decrees Nos. 78 263, 81 323, 83 165 and 85 056:
provides for extensions of the exploration concessions,
with Esso's undertaking to drill one well
5.    -     Decret 86 081:  withra4wal of Chevron



ANNEX 2.10
Page 3 of 3
6.    -  1980 Agreement with Total, ADL study on petroleum products
distribution in CAR, and proposed statutes of PETROCA
C.    Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff
1.    -  Various Computer printouts including financial model simulation
AFlIE
December 5, 1988



To Boaangoa            I              To Bouca
= 9 % 0 v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CETAL AFRCAN REULIC '
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
L             't  AwtXIIi d    -----ad~~~~~N---
{ \ g jZ'~~~-                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
T f t' ~~~~FIRST ENERGY PROEC
Pr \ 2! _                                                    Proposed M8arl dam
\ t - Boali 11hydro plant
all  Da     Boll IoallI hydro  plant
>  {         \5                      ,      Transmission line. Boall 1 63 kV
)  \              )           t\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__    Transmission line. Boall n 110 kV
X  //M                                                 Main roads
<   Mbaikx             2 tj |                    ~~~~~~~~~0 Nastional capital
-    ^international boundaries
{'-   *  \     _         >      }                 I t~~~~~~o    5  a0  46  eo  75  90o
soda                                                 EXIST.  a .   a 
.-                        M-o-l 11                                                           y p
h rs  _   ._      __,7m.olnBo           k
F  Gm..      Trnmso  ln  Bo-li H ,       kV
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (O pe rate d _ _ __at_ _ _ _ __kV )



