Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 CREDIT NUMBER 1978 CA
(Energy Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 3, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1978 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1989, between THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower;
 
(C)
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by ENERCA  with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to ENERCA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Fund  
(AfDF) a loan (the AfDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to $14,600,000 to assist  in 
Page  2
financing Part A.1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the AfDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDF;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic 
Development (the Kuwait Fund) a loan (the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an  amount equivalent 
to $6,900,000 to assist in financing Part A.1 of the Project  on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Kuwait Fund Loan  Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(F)
the Borrower has obtained from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) loans in an amount equivalent to $9,500,000 and intends to obtain 
from CCCE additional loans in an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 to  assist in 
financing Parts A, B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
agreements (the CCCE Loan Agreements) entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(G)
the Borrower has obtained from the French Republic through the  Fonds 
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) technical assistance on a grant basis and  intends to 
obtain the renewal thereof, in a total amount estimated at the  equivalent of 
$4,300,000, to assist in financing Part C.1 of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Cooperation Agreements entered into between the Borrower and the 
French Republic;
(H)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for Economic 
Development in Africa (ABEDA) a loan (the ABEDA Loan) in an amount of $4,000,000 to 
assist in financing Part B.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the ABEDA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ABEDA; and
(I)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Organization of Petroleum 
Exporting Countries Fund (the OPEC Fund) a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount of 
$3,400,000 to assist in financing Part B.2 of the Project on  the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan  Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the OPEC Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions  set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and ENERCA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
ENERCA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to  time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ENERCA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
Page  3
(d)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of   letters dated 
October 5, 1987 and November 16, 1987, March 24, 1988 and June  13, 1988, and December 
14, 1988 and February 6, 1989 between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)
"ENERCA" means Energie Centrafricaine, an etablissement public 
established by Ordinance No. 67/63 dated October 25, 1967 and operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 68/048 dated January 12, 1968 of the Borrower;
(f)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(g)
"Environmental and Resettlement Program" means the program transmitted by 
the Borrower to the Association by letter of even date herewith and further referred 
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(h)
"Contract-Plan" means the contract referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five  hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part D of the Project,  open and 
maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the  amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on  which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Page  4
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1999 and ending  December 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested  by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ENERCA is designated as representative of the Borrower  for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of all categories except for Category (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in  conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and petroleum industry practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause  ENERCA to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement  all the obligations of ENERCA 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ENERCA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
Page  5
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to all 
Categories except for Category (6) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ENERCA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the  Borrower and ENERCA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall 
include interest at the  rate  of 7% per annum and repayment over a period of 20 years 
including a grace period of 5 years. The foreign exchange risk on such onlending shall 
be borne by ENERCA. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan  
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the  
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed  by the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the  General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans  and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and 
C of the Project shall be carried out by ENERCA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take from time to time all measures required on 
its part to enable ENERCA to: 
(a)
adjust its rates for electric power services as provided in Section 4.02 
(c) of the Project Agreem+ent; and
(b)
discontinue further electric power services to any customer,  public or 
private, with electricity bill payments overdue by more than ninety calendar days.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by June 30, 1989, conclude with ENERCA a Contract-Plan satisfactory to 
the Association and thereafter implement it in accordance with its provisions; and
(b)
promptly provide to ENERCA all funds required to cover the capital and 
operating costs associated with the supply of electricity to new rural areas in 
accordance with the compensation mechanisms set forth in the Contract-Plan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause ENERCA to promptly implement the 
Environmental and Resettlement Program and submit quarterly to the Association  
detailed reports on the progress achieved in the execution of said Program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of  the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out said Part of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  6
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ENERCA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower or ENERCA shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the Contract-Plan;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ENERCA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(d)
Ordinance No. 67/63 of October 25, 1967 and Decree No. 68/048 of January 
12, 1968 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of  ENERCA to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ENERCA or for the suspension of 
its operations;
(f)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
Page  7
agreed maturity 
thereof;
 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the  meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ENERCA;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or initial 
disbursements under, the AfDF Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement,  the 
CCCE Loan Agreements, the ABEDA Loan Agreement and the OPEC Fund Loan  Agreement have 
been fulfilled, save the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)
ENERCA's rates have been adjusted in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association;
(d)
a draft Contract-Plan has been submitted to the Association;
 
(e)
full ownership of the hydroelectric plant at Boali II and the  related 
debt have been transferred to ENERCA after deduction of the arrears   due by the 
Borrower and public enterprises to ENERCA;
(f)
a plan for the removal of wood from the reservoir area, satisfactory to 
the Association, has been submitted to the Association; and
(g)
the account referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement has 
been opened and the initial amount referred to in said Section deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, ENERCA, and is legally binding upon ENERCA in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ENERCA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ENERCA in 
Page  8
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of 
this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of  Section 5.02 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty-five years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance, Planning
  and International Cooperation
P.O. Box 912
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
FINECA
5280 RC
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ C. Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  (a)  Civil works           5,010,000        27%
          for
          Part A.1 of
          the Project
     (b)  Panel of                 80,000        100%
          experts for
          Part A.1 of
          the Project
(2)  Environment and            1,500,000        100% of foreign
     Resettlement                                expenditures and
                                                 70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                 450,000        100%
     services for
     Part C of the
     Project
(4)  Vehicles and                 980,000        100%
     equipment for
     Part C of the
     Project
(5)  Fellowships                  150,000        100%
(6)  Consultants'               1,900,000        100%
     services for
     Part D of the
     Project
(7)  Refunding of                 570,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                2,860,000
                               __________
     TOTAL                     13,500,000
    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  10
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the  Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the Category "Environment and Resettlement" includes works, goods and 
services for Parts A.2, A.3 and A.4 of the Project, excluding the  diversion of Route 
Nationale  No. 1 and direct compensation to displaced population.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date  of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
improve and regularize the production of hydro-electricity and thereby 
reduce the Borrower's dependence on oil imports;
(b)
improve the financial viability of the power sector;
 
(c)
strengthen ENERCA's management and accountability; and
 
(d)
establish an institutional framework conducive to private investment in 
petroleum exploration in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Hydroelectric Development on the M'Bali River
 
1.
(a)
Construction of a dam with a total length of about 780 m and a  maximum 
height of 30 m, including a central concrete structure of about 90 m  with earth and 
rock-fill embankments on both sides and a spillway crest with a maximum evacuating 
capacity of 1,000 m3 per second.
(b)
Supervision of work for Part A.1 (a) of the Project by consulting 
engineers and experts.
2.
Works related to the formation of the regulating reservoir with a capacity of 
about 250,000,000 m3, including the diversion of Route Nationale No. 1, construction 
of feeder roads, extraction of wood and reforestation.
3.
Resettlement of displaced population, including construction of a school, wells 
and a health center, site preparation for house construction, and other compensation 
of population displaced under the Project.
4.
A health protection program including prevention and treatment of diseases such 
as malaria and schistosomiasis.
5.
Rehabilitation of the hydroelectric generation stations at Boali I and Boali II, 
including:
(a)
for Boali I, repair of foundation structures and power house, and 
overhaul of electrical and mechanical equipment; and
(b)
for Boali II, repair of the intake canal and penstock, and overhaul of 
two 5 MW hydroelectric generation units.
Page  11
Part B:
Improvement of ENERCA's Thermal Generation, Transmission and Distribution 
System
1.
Rehabilitation of the 63 kV electric line from Boali I to sub-station B in 
Bangui, including reinforcement of the supporting structures,   be-insulation, partial 
re-conductoring and partial rerouting, and construction of a service road to maintain 
rights-of-way.
2.
Rehabilitation of the 15 kV distribution system in Bangui including replacement 
of old distribution circuits, installation of reactive capacity  and street lighting, 
installation of new service connections, and rehabilitation of about 20 distribution 
substations.
3.
Increase of ENERCA's thermal capacity through acquisition and installation of 
one 5 MW diesel generator.
Part C:
Strengthening of ENERCA's Operations
 
1.
Improvement of ENERCA's human resources, financial and technical management.
 
2.
Fellowships to upgrade the skills of selected ENERCA's staff.
 
3.
Acquisition of vehicles, computer and laboratory equipment, spare parts and 
supplies required to improve ENERCA's technical operations.
4.
Studies to:
 
(a)
develop a ten-year program for a national power system expansion; and
 
(b)
design an appropriate electricity tariff structure.
 
Part D:
A Program to improve Oil Products Distribution and Promote Petroleum 
Exploration
1.
A study to diagnose the current modalities under which oil products are 
purchased, transported and distributed, and formulate appropriate recommendations for 
further improvement.
2.
Reinterpretation of existing aero-magnetometric data.
 
3.
Reprocessing and evaluation of seismic data on about 300 line-km.
 
4.
A structural reinterpretation of existing seismic data; and reinterpretation of 
data from the Aoukale 1 well.
5.
Compilation of existing petroleum exploration information.
 
6.
(a)
Preparation of a geological dossier for promotional purposes integrating 
existing data with those developed under the Project.
(b)
Review of the current petroleum legislation and drafting of a model 
petroleum exploration contract.
7.
Promotion of acreage to international oil companies, negotiation of petroleum 
exploration contracts and monitoring of their execution.
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  12
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category (6) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$60,000,000 CFAF to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such  payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Part D of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to  Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Part D of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part D of the Project shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by  notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
Page  13
shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or   justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit  by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent  withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works and goods for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4 and C.3 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,  advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Materials, supplies and equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least  three reputable 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Contracts for the removal of wood and reforestation in the lake area under Part 
A.2 of the Project may be procured through direct contracting with the Office National 
des Forets if, in the opinion of the Association: (a) the Office National des Forets 
is the only entity capable of carrying out the works; and (b) the cost of such works 
is reasonable.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1  to the 
Page  14
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be  furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, or of the  Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the 
case may be.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement 
or of the Project Agreement, as the case may be.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the Project and ENERCA 
in carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower and  ENERCA shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of  
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"  
published by the Bank in August 1981.
