Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1978 CA
(Energy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ENERGIE CENTRAFRICAINE
Dated May 3, 1989
 CREDIT NUMBER 1978 CA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
(the  Association)  and ENERGIE CENTRAFRICAINE (ENERCA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Central African Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various  currencies equivalent 
to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that ENERCA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ENERCA, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to ENERCA on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS ENERCA, in consideration of the Association's  entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the  
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as  so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ENERCA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement  and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public 
utility practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and  other 
resources required for said Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above regarding the 
provisions of funds, ENERCA shall: (i) open and thereafter maintain an account (the 
Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) deposit into the Project  Account an initial amount of CFAF 
130,000,000, and thereafter replenish it regularly so as to maintain it at all times 
with a minimum balance of no less than CFAF 50,000,000; and (iii) use the funds 
deposited in the Project Account only to make payments for goods and services required 
for Parts A, B and C of the Project;
(c)
ENERCA shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, open 
and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit  shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ENERCA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions  (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in  respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B and C 
of the Project.
Section 2.04. ENERCA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  ENERCA shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of  amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ENERCA and the Association shall, at the request of  either 
party, exchange views with regard to the progress of the Project, the  performance by 
ENERCA of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ENERCA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ENERCA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENERCA
Section 3.01. ENERCA shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and  public utility 
practices under the supervision of management with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association and assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ENERCA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time, promptly as  needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance  with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ENERCA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ENERCA shall carry out the study referred to under Part C.4 (b) of 
the Project and submit the results thereof to the Association by  September 30, 1989 
for its approval, and promptly implement the  recommendations of said study as agreed 
upon with the Association.
Section 3.05. ENERCA shall, not later than June 30, 1989, conclude with the 
Borrower a Contract-Plan satisfactory to the Association and thereafter  implement it 
in accordance with its provisions.
Section 3.06. ENERCA shall: (a) (i) by April 1 of each year, submit to the 
Association for its comments a training program together with an assessment of the 
performance achieved under the training program during the preceding  year; and (ii) 
promptly carry out the training program agreed upon with the Association; and
(b)
(i)
submit to the Association for its approval the qualifications and 
functions of the candidates for fellowships financed from the proceeds of the Credit 
and the training program for such fellowships; and  (ii) take all necessary measures 
to ensure that all staff having received such fellowships remain assigned for a period 
of at least five years after completion of their training to tasks for which they were 
trained.
Section 3.07. ENERCA shall: (a) without limitation to any other legal  remedies 
available to it, promptly disconnect any public or private customer  with electricity 
bill payments overdue for more than ninety calendar days;
(b)
reconnect any such customer only after all his outstanding  payments 
(including late payment charges and reconnection penalties) shall have been made; and
(c)
submit to the Association at the end of each calendar quarter, a report 
in such detail as shall be reasonably determined by the Association,  showing the 
amount of customers' accounts receivable outstanding and all measures taken by ENERCA 
to reduce the level of said accounts so that, starting in 1991, the average wage of 
accounts receivable outstanding at any time shall not exceed 150 days.
Section 3.08. Without any limitation to the generality of the provisions of 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, ENERCA shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association, cause the dam and related structures constructed or rehabilitated under 
the Project to be inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice 
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such 
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of 
the same, which may endanger their safety. To this end, ENERCA shall propose to the 
Association appropriate arrangements for the Association's review no later than one 
year  before the expected completion of such structures.
Section 3.09. (a) ENERCA shall take all steps necessary to maintain its legal 
existence and right to carry on its operations and shall take all steps  necessary to 
acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises  or other rights as 
may be necessary or useful for its operations.
Page  4
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENERCA shall not sell, 
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets  which shall be 
required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
Section 3.10. (a) ENERCA shall maintain a Project Unit (Mission M'Bali), headed 
by a director, reporting directly to the Director General of ENERCA,  and with staff 
in adequate numbers; the qualifications and experience of such director and staff to 
be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Said Project Unit shall be responsible inter alia for: (i) the management 
and coordination of Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and B of the Project;  and (ii) the 
integration of all Project-related reports prepared by ENERCA for  the concerned 
donors or other parties.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ENERCA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ENERCA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts (including the Special Account) and 
financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ENERCA shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of  this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENERCA shall 
earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, 
an annual return of not less than 8% of the average current  net value of ENERCA's 
Page  5
fixed assets in operation.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, ENERCA shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by ENERCA and satisfactory to the Association,  review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following two fiscal years and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that ENERCA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for ENERCA's fiscal years covered by such review, ENERCA shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in  order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing ENERCA's net 
operating 
income for the fiscal year in question by one half of 
the sum of the current 
net value of ENERCA's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the 
end of that fiscal year.
 
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 7% per annum of the 
average current gross value of ENERCA's 
fixed assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of ENERCA's fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross value 
of ENERCA's fixed assets 
in operation at the beginning and at the end 
of the fiscal year, as valued 
from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods 
of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)
The term "current net value of ENERCA's fixed assets in operation" 
means the 
gross value of ENERCA's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time 
in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
 
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENERCA  shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ENERCA 
shows that the projected internal cash generation of  ENERCA for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected 
debt service requirement of ENERCA in such
year on all debt of ENERCA including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this 
Section:
(a)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ENERCA maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other  instrument providing for such debt or further modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt shall be 
outstanding.
(c)
The term "internal cash generation of ENERCA" means gross revenues  of 
ENERCA from all sources, adjusted to take account of ENERCA's rates in effect at the 
Page  6
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses of 
ENERCA, including expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or 
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for  depreciation of assets and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(e)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by ENERCA in the 
fiscal year in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which both  the 
Association and ENERCA accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has 
notified ENERCA of its acceptability, provided that no  event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future  to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
ENERCA.
(f)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of  exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt or, with absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association  and of 
ENERCA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ENERCA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For ENERCA:
Energie Centrafricaine
B.P. 880
Bangui
Central African Republic
Telex:
5241 RC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf  of ENERCA, or by 
ENERCA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit  Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by ENERCA's Director General or such other person or persons as ENERCA 
shall designate in writing, and ENERCA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
ENERGIE CENTRAFRICAINE
By /s/ C. Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories except for Category 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the  Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Page  8
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
225,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into  the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account  such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such  payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Parts A, B and C of the Project, less the amount of  any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to Parts A, B and C of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B and C  of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify  by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of  such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  9
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has  provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
