Report No. 943a-ME          FILE  COPY
Mexico    FIECP
Appraisal of a Second
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project
January 15, 1976
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Mexican Peso
US$1              =      Mex$12.50
Mex$1             =      US$0.08
Mex$1 million      =     US$80,000
ACRONYMS
CANACINTRA      Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CEDI            Certificado de Devolucion de Impuestos Indirectos
CONCAMIN        Confederacion de Camaras Industriales de Mexico
FOGAIN          Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana
y Pequena
FOMEX           Fondo para el Fomento de la Exportacion de Productos
Manufacturados
FOMIN           Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONEI           Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP           Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion
IMCE            Instituto Mexicano de Cosercio Exterior
IMIT            Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
NAFIN           Nacional Financiera
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY .......................................................  i  - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION ..................................................                                                    1
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .........................................                                                     1
General ....................................................                                              1
Trade Policy ...............................................                                              3
Protection ...............................................                                             3
Export Incentives ........................................                                             3
Manufactured Exports .......................................                                              4
Concentration of Manufacturing Activity ....................                                              5
III.    THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM ..........................................                                                      5
General ....................................................                                              5
The Stock Markets ........................................                                             6
Improvements to the Financial System .....................                                             7
Availability of Credit and the Interest Rate ...............                                              7
IV.          FONEI .........................................................                                                8
A. The Institution ............................................                                                8
FONEI ...-.................................................                                            8
Objectives and Policies ..................................                                             9
Board ....................................................                                             9
Management, Organization and Procedures ..................                                             9
Project Appraisal and Procedures .........................    10
Project Supervision ......................................    10
Technical Department .....................................    11
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures ..................    11
Audit ....................................................    12
Relations with the Government ............................    12
Resources ................................................    12
Types of Project Loans ...................................    12
Terms and Limits of Financing ............................    13
V.    B. Operations .................................................    13
Loan Approvals ...........................................    13
Loan Portfolio ...........................................    14
Participating Intermediaries .............................    14
Financial Results ........................................    1
FONEI's Performance Under the First Loan .................    15
FONEI's Interest Rate Under the Proposed Loan ............    15
This report was prepared by Messrs. Patricio Reich and Thomas Hutcheson
following visits to Mexico in January/February 1975 and October 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.   THE PROJECT ..................................................       16
FONEI's Future Role .......................................     16
Transfer of Appraisal to Intermediaries ...................      16
Promotion .................................................      18
FONEIfs Prospects .........................................     18
Operations Forecast .....................................     18
Resource Requirements ...................................     18
Projected Financial Results ...............................   19
VI. PROPOSED BANK LOAN .19
Retroactive Financing .20
FONEI Relending Rates .20
VIII. RECOCTrDATIONS. .20
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex  1  - Man of Mexico
Annex  2  - MEXICO:  Size Distribution and Other Indicators of Mexican Industry
Annex  3  - hEXICO: Profile of Mlanufacturing Sector, 1970
Annex  4 - MEXICO:  Profile of Manufacturing Sector, 1970: Averages per Firm
Annex  5  - IMXICO:  Manufacturing Value Added by 3conomic Classification
Annex  6  - MEXICO: Nominal and Effective Protection
Annex  7 -  MEXICO: Tariff Schedules before and after July 1975 hevi$ion
Annex  b -  MEXICO:  Subsectoral Distribution of Manufactured ELxports
Annex  9 -  IEXICO:  Geographical Distribution of Manufacturing Activities, 197C0
Annex 10 - MEXICO: Financial Institutions and Intermediation in Mexico
Annex 11  - hEXICO: Sectoral Distribution of Credit
Annex 12  - hEXICO:  Small- and Medium-Scale Industry - Consolidated Percentual
Balance Sheets and Income Statements by Industrial Groucs
Annex 13  -  MEXICO:  Comparison of Percentual Consolidated Balance Sheets for
Small- and hedium-Scale Industry - hexico, Colombia & U.S.
Annex 14  -  MEXICO: Average Cost of Deposits to the Financieras
Annex 15  - FONEI:   Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
Annex 16  -  FONEI:  Board (Technical Committee)
Annex 17  - FONEI:   Organization Chart
Annex 1b  -  FONEI:  Characteristics of Loan Approvals from Inception to
September 30, 1975
Annex 19  -  FONEI:   Breakdown of FONEI's Operations by Financial Intermediaries
as of September 30, 1975
Annex 20  - FONEI:   Audited Income Statements (1972-74) and Projected (1975-79)
Annex 21  -  FONEI:   Past (1972-74) and Projected (1975-79) Balance Sheets as of
December 31.
Annex 22  - FONEI:   Past (1972-74) and Projected (1975-79) Sources and Uses of
Funds
Annex 23  -  FONEI:   Approvals, Commitments, and Disbursements - Actual (1973-74)
and Projected (1975-79)
Annex 24 -  FONEI:  Resource Position (1972-First Quarter 197b)
Annex 25  -  FONEI:   Assumptions for FONEI's Financial Projections (1975-&0)
Annex 26  -  FON -E:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan



NKCO
APPRAISAL OF SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       This report appraises a second project to assist the Fondo de Equi-
pamiento Industrial (FONEI), a Government trust fund in Banco de Mexico, the
central bank. FONEI, created in 1971, finances through intermediaries the
fixed asset costs of industrial export and import substitution projects
having reasonable export prospects. In 1972 the Bank extended a US$35 million
loan to F'ONEI, after collaborating with the Government in its establishment.
This report proposes a second loan of US$50 million.
ii.      Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 28% of GDP, was one of
the leading sectors until 1970; since then, it has merely kept pace with the
economy. Since the 1971 introduction of export incentives, manufactured ex-
ports have grown at about 39% p.a. but in 1975 still account for a very modest
3.8% share of manufactured output.  The 1971 export incentive program incluaes
(a) the reimbursement of indirect taxes paid by exported manufactures, calcu-
lated as percentages of their value, and (b) the duty-free importation of in-
puts, for export products. The program has beeri gradually modified and im-
proved, most recently in July 1975 when, because of balance of payments problems,
this already successful export promotion program was extended significantly.
iii.     The growith of the Mexican economy has been aided by a well developed
financial system. Large amounts of savings (over 4% of GDP in some years)
have been channeled through financial intermediaries because of sound interest
rate policies. Also, the system has intermediated between the public's prefer-
ence for short-term assets and the needs of investment projects for medium-
and long-term funds. Furthermore, Banco de Mexico, through the reserve
mechanism, has channeled substantial amounts of credit to sectors to which
the Government attached priority on social or economic grounds. However, the
system's development was unbalanced. Fixed-return securities mobilized savings
without a parallel development of the stock market. The stock markets are
thin, information is scarce and there are minimal disclosure requirements
for publicly traded firms. The banking legislation has impeded the development
of the stock markets by allowing financieras to hold equity investments larger
than their own equity. The authorities are concerned about these problems
and are gradually introducing measures to correct these shortcomings.
iv.      Since 1973, higher inflation has set back the financial system's
*           development: non-monetary liabilities as a percent of GDP fell to their 1965
level because of negative real interest rates. As authorities began to take
measures to control the high inflation, credit to industrial firms became
scarce. This raised the general level of interest rates and caused credit to
be allocated to the larger, better connected firms, particularly those af-
filiated with financial groups, notwithstanding that these firms are highly
leveraged in contrast to smaller ones which are in a position to absorb
substantial amounts of debt.
v.        Management problems, lack of promotion and substantial liquidity in
the banking system prevented  ONEI from extending any loans during its first
year of existence. A more active promotion by a new management and a rise in



- ii -
the general level of interest rates made the first FONEI subloans pos-
sible during the second half of 1973. Since then, FONEI has financed ef-
fient projects of high priority to the Mexican economy. Mcreover, these
projects have a significant impact on the balance of payments because of
the emphasis placed on exports by IFONEI's Board of Directors. Once the
projects financed so far by FONEI reach full capacity, they will generate
about US$65 million per year of additional exports.
vi.      Since FONEI's relending rate was far below other rates, most of
its funds were allocated to borrowers offering the best guarantees, many
of whom possibly could have secured alternative financing on adequate terms.
The concessional rates may have played a useful promotional role initially,
but it is expected that gradually FONEI will become sufficiently accepted
to make it possible to reduce or eliminate interest subsidies. Therefore,
to improve the allocation of FONEIT's funds and to maintain its relending
rates in line with changes in the cost of alternative funds, FONEI would
have, under the proposed loan, higher and variable interest rates. The
initial rate would be 13.5%, adjustable to fully reflect changes of at least
O.25 percentage points in the average cost of deposits with financieras, as
calculated monothly by Banco de Mexico.  Final borrowers would be able to
choose between two regimes: (a) a variable interest rate which would change
every semester, if necessary, to reflect changes in the average cost of
deposits with financieras, or (b) a flat rate throughout the life of the
loan, determined as the interest rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
vii.     Under the proposed project, FONET would play two important roles in
the economy, namely: (a) financing industrial projects with a substantial
impact on the balance of payments, and (b) encouraging financial intermediaries
to include project appraisals among their lending criteria. The performance
of FONEI's Technical Department would be crucial under the proposed loan and
its capabilities would be improved substantially. To this end several measures
are proposed,including an initially heavier-than-usual involvement of Bank
staff. FONEI's financial projections, which are based on reasonable growth
assumptions, indicate that the Bank loan would be fully committed by early
1978. Total assets would increase more than seven times in the period 1975-79.
viii.    The proceeds of the loan would cover the c.i.f. cost of imports or
a maximum of 70% of the domestic price of imported goods purchased troff-the-
shelf" when the c.i.f. price cannot be determined. Expenditures made up to
180 days prior to the Bank's reception of subloans for approval would be
eligible for Bank financing. The limit for projects not requiring prior Bank
approval (the "free limit") would be raised from US$500,000 under the first                 a
loan to US$750,000 in view of IFNEI's increased experience.  As requested by
FONEI, the loan would include provision for retroactive financing for up to
US$5.0 million equivalent.
ix.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million, with a term
of 16 years including three years of grace, on conditions customary for Bank
loans to development finance companies.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01.          Banco de Mexico, Mexico's central bank, has applied for a
second Bank loan to assist one of its trust funds, the Fondo de Equipamiento
Industrial (FONEI) in its operations. FONEI, a second tier institution, fi-
nances through intermediaries (commercial banks and investment banks) the
cost of fixed assets for the efficient production of industrial goods and
services that either supply export markets or substitute imports, thereby
generating and/or saving foreign exchange. The proposed US$50 million loan,
to be guaranteed by the United States of Mexico, would be made to Nacional
Financiera S.A. (NAFIN) who would make arrangements with Banco de Mexico,
for the transfer to FONEI of the proceeds of the Bank loan.
1.02      In 1971, the Bank collaborated with the Mexican Government in
establishing FONEI. To support FONEI's operations, in mid-1972 the Bank
made a US$35 million loan now fully committed, the objective of which has
been largely accomplished: the financing of economically sound projects
that will have a significant impact on Mexico's balance of payments.
1.03      In addition to filling a gap in the availability of industrial
long-term development credit, the proposed project is designed to achieve
two important objectives namely:
(a) to support the Government's program for expanding exports
while still financing efficient import substitution; and
(b) through FONEI, to encourage intermediaries to lend on the
basis of project appraisal (appraisal banking) rather than
primarily in relation to collateral to: (i) ease the
access to Bank funds for medium-sized firms, and (ii)
improve the allocation of domestically mobilized resources.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
January/February 1975 and an updating mission in October 1975, both by
Messrs. Reich and Hutcheson from the Bank.
II. TIE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General
2.01      Manufacturing industry is one of the most dynamic sectors of the
Mexican economy, accounting for 28% of the 1974 GDP, up from 19% in 1940;
absorbing nearly a fourth of gross domestic investment and employing about
the same fraction of the total labor force. This performance has been facili-
tated by an active entrepreneurial class; the relatively large and growing
domestic demand; the proximity of the high income US market; the absence of
serious labor-management conflicts and favorable government policies. During



- 2 -
the last 15 years the thrust of Government industrial policies has been to
promote employment to absorb surplus labor, reduce foreign exchange expenditures
through import substitution, increase foreign exchange earnings through a rapid
expansion of manufactured exports, strengthen intra- and inter-industry link-
ages and, intensify efforts for a wider regional dispersion of industrial
activity (para. 2.15). Since 1970, the Government has shown increasing com-
mitment to investments in export-oriented projects.
2.02      According to the 1970 industrial census, Mexican manufacturing
industry consisted of 119,000 firms 1/. Firms in the food processing sub-
sector were most numerous (56,000, about 46% of the total) and had the largest
subsectoral output (Mex$39 billion about 19% of total output), while those
in the chemical products subsector showed the largest investment (Annexes
2 to 4).
2.03      The census data also show that small- and medium-firms play an
important role in the manufacturing sector. An arbitrary dividing line
between large- and medium-sized firms set at 250 employees results in
more than 98% of Mexico's industrial firms (excluding those without paid
workers) being categorized as small- and medium scale. These firms accounted
for 46% of the 1970 gross manufacturing output and about 54% of manufacturing
employment (average employment of 14 workers per firm). Investment per
worker in small- and medium-industry averaged about US$6,500, which is about
half of the average in the larger firms. The role of the smaller firms is
particularly prominent in the more traditional labor-intensive industries,
producing items of mass consumption (wood, furniture, leather products,
apparel, etc).
2.04      With small- and medium-scale firms requiring less capital invest-
ment per job than larger industries, their expansion would have significant
employment generation effects. This is a particularly important goal for
Mexico given its young and rapidly growing labor force, especially in the
urban areas. The proposed Bank loan is expected to assist mainly
industrial firms with less than 250 workers.
2.05      Since 1950 there has been a gradual shift in the structure of
mn-ufacturing output from consumer to capital and intermediate goods, re-
flecting the Government's policy to broaden and diversify the country's
industrial base. However, in 1974 consumer goods still made up about 56%
of manufacturing value added while intermediate goods contributed 38% and
capital goods 6% (Annex 5). The fastest-growing subsectors have been trans-
port equipment, textiles, and wearing apparel, engineering goods, metal and
metal products and chemicals, while the food and beverages subsector ex-
perienced the slowest rate of growth.
1/   Includes about 60,000 firms that had no paid employees.  About 90,000
people worked in these firms, only contributing about 1% to total
manufacturing output.



-3-
Trade Policy
2.06      Protection.  Protection of manufacturing as an explicIt pollcy goes
back at least to the 1930s with the Law of New and Necessary  hn:4ustries. 1/
The balance-of-payments problems which emerged after World War II led to the
reinforcement of the protection policy with higher tariffs and the imposition
of import licensing (quantitative restrictions).
2.07      The most recent comprehensive study of protection in Mexico 2/ esti-
mates an average of 25% nominal protection and 28% effective protection, one
of the lowest in any developing country. In spite of the low average, protec-
tion shows considerable variation between subsectors of manufacturing (Annex 6);
consumer durables had the highest effective protection at 101%, while con-
struction materials had the lowest protection at 1%. If the food, beverages,
and tobacco and construction materials subsectors are excluded from the compu-
tation, average nominal protection rises to 28% and average effective protec-
tion jumps to 43%.
2.08      Nominal protection has increased in recent years as indicated by
the faster rate of price increase in Mexico than in the United States, its
malor trading partner. The number of import items subject to licensing
increased from 26% of all imports in 1956 to around 75% in 1974. In July
1975, reacting to large balance-of-payments deficits, the authorities made
all imports subiect to licensing. As part of the same measures, tariffs were
raised, increasing the average tariff rate from 18% to 22% (Annex 7), and the
export incentive program was expanded.
2.09      Export Incentives.  The "Certificado de Devoluci6n de Impuestos
Indirectos" 3/ (CEDI) program was instituted in 1971 to encourage exports by
offsetting the high costs to exporters of domestic intermediate goods through
indirect tax rebates granted as non-transferable certificates usable only
for paying taxes. This program has been gradually expanded and improved.
Following the July 1975 revision, manufactured goods with more than 60% of
domestic content 4/ receive a rebate of 11% of their export value, a rebate
of 7.0% for products with 50 to 60% domestic content and a rebate of 5.5%
for products with 40 to 50%. A special 15% rate is allowed for goods with
more than 60% domestic content exported by trading companies.
The Law of New and Necessary Industries raises the effective protection
to industries qualifying as "'new and necessary" by lowering tariffs on
capital goods and intermediate goods purchased by the qualifying industries.
2/   "The Structure of Protection in Mexico," Bela Balassa and Associates,
The Structure of Protection in Developing Countries, 1971.
3/   Certificates of Indirect Tax Reimbursement.
4/   "Domestic content" is defined as domestic inputs, direct wages and
depreciation. Overhead costs and profits are left out.



- 4 -
2.10      The export incentive program, which also permits duty-free "tempo-
rary imports" of inputs for products that will be exported, was extended in
July 1975 to products with 20% of domestic content (down from 40%). Tempo-
rary imports require prior authorization by the Finance Ministry, after
receiving the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Before
July 1975 they were difficult to obtain (a 3 months' delay being common),
and many applications were denied.  As part of the July 1975 measures both
ministries are seeking ways to streamline the process. Most manufactured
exports with more than 50% domestic content are also eligible for short-term
concessionary financing by "Fondo para el Fomento de la Exportacion de Productos
Manufacturados" (FOMEX) at concessionary rates.
2.11      The July 1975 revisions to the CEDI and temporary import systems,
mark a further improvement of the successful program of export incentives.
Manufactured Exports
2.12      Responding to the 1971 introduction of export incentives (para. 2.09)
manufactured exports grew at 38.7% p.a. in 1970-74, compared to only 11.9%
p.a. in 1965-70 (Annex 8). These exports which stood at about US$200 million
in 1965 rose to about US$1,300 million in 1974 (excluding exports of assembly
(maquila) industries), accounting for nearly 46% of total merchandise exports.
Despite this rapid increase, manufactured exports in 1974 accounted for
only about 3.8% of total manufacturing output. The export surge has been led
by textiles, apparel, and footwear, followed by non-tradional items such as
machinery, electronics and automotives parts, which in part reflects the
growing integration that has developed between Mexican part suppliers and the
US automotive industry.
2.13      In 1971, as part of the Government's policies for increasing exports,
the special treatment of duty-free temporary imports of equipment and materials
granted to export-oriented assembly plants in the free-zone and border areas
was formalized in legislation. Since October 1972, firms in the interior of
the country, outside the larger urban areas, are also eligible for maquila
status. Thus, by end-1973, 51 firms in the interior had been given maquila
status compared with 454 such firms in areas contiguous with the US. The
results of these concessions have been spectacular as estimates of exports
for 1973 from these sources amount to US$577 million in value and US$272 mil-
lion in domestic value added compared to practically nil in 1965.
2.14      Manufactured exports are finding wider markets.  Between 1965 and
1971, the share of manufactured exports to the US declined from 70.5% to
62.9% and sales to Central America declined from 7% to 5.7% while exports to
the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) countries increased from
12.1% to 15.3% and the share directed to Europe and other countries outside
the Western Hemisphere increased from 10.4% to 16.6%. This trend is likely
to continue as Mexico promotes its manufactured exports in new markets.



-5-
2.15      Concentration of Industrial Activity.  Mexico's industry, employ-
ment and income are heavily concentrated in Mexico City, which accounts for
25% of the firms, 32% of the employment, and 33% of the output of the manu-
facturing sector (Annex 9). Compounding the problem of Mexico City's popu-
lation of 11 million are its 6.5% annual rate of growth, air and water pollu-
tion, and the costs of providing water to a city located in an arid valley,
7,400 feet above sea level. 1/ These factors make it desirable to encourage
growth elsewhere.
2.16      In 1972 the Government instituted a fiscal incentives plan for
locating industry outside the capital and the two other largest cities,
Guadalajara and Monterrey. The plan, however, suffered shortcomings: its
impact on Mexico City was reduced by including Guadalajara and Monterrey
where the concentration problems are not so acute as in Mexico City; and, by
lowering the duties on imported capital goods, it provides more incentives to
decentralize capital-intensive than labor-intensive industries. The Govern-
ment, however, is considering other steps to decentralize the economy.
2.17      The Bank will soon complete two studies, Spatial Development in
Mexico and the Economic Development of Southeast Mexico, dealing with the
concentration problem. Both have been discussed with the Government. The
first confirms the desirability of encouraging growth outside of the Mexico
City area. The second indicates that the Gulf coast of the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec is one of the most promising growth poles.
II. THE FINANCIANL SYSTEM
General
3.01      The growth of the Mexican economy has been aided by a well-
developed, although unbalanced (para. 3.03) financial system consisting of
almost 200 banks of public, mixed, and private ownership, with the central
bank as its apex. The system is dominated by 11 large groups, each consisting
of commercial banks, investment banks (financieras) and mortgage companies
(hipotecarias). Encouraged by the authorities, the groups are becoming multi-
banks offering a wide spectrum of financial services. For a detailed descrip-
tion of Mexico's financial system see Annex 10.
3.02      Mexico's financial system traditionally has been able to mobilize
large amounts of savings (over 4% of GDP in some years) because of a sound
interest rate policy which maintained positive real interest rates up to
1972. It also has been able to intermediate successfully between the public's
preference for short-term assets and the needs of the investment projects
for medium-and long-term funds. Moreover, Banco de Mexico, through the reserve
requirements mechanism, has channeled substantial amounts of credit to socially
1/   The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to study
Mexico's water resources (Plan Nacional Hidraulico) and has carried
out a water supply sector survey jointly with the Pan American Health
Organization.



and economically desirable activities. To this end the Government has esta-
blished several special purpose funds, five of which lend primarily to in-
dustry. 1/ Since 1973, increased inflation has set back the system's develop-
ment.  Non-monetary liabilities, which stood at 35% of GDP in 1972, fell to
27% in 1974 and in 1975 appear to have fallen further to 25%, almost their
1965 level. This is the result of the system's inability to adjust its
interest rates rapidly to the appreciable increase in inflation (from an
average of 4-5% p.a. in the 1960s to 20% p.a. in 1973-74).
3.03       The development of the financial system has been unbalanced.  Fixed
return instruments mobilized large amounts of resources, without a parallel
growth of the stock markets (para. 3.05). In this context, and aided by
the Mexican tax legislation which favors debt over equity, the leading finan-
cial groups merged with large industrial groups. This allowed the latter to
pyramid 2/ their firms and still have ready access to credit, as witnessed
by the high leverage of larger firms (para. 3.09).
3.04       The Mexican banking system traditionally has allocated credit more
on the basis of guarantees offered by the investors and on the latter's rela-
tionship with the lending institutions (para. 3.07) than on the merits of the
proposed projects.  This allocation of resources has diminished the efficiency
of the system's financial intermediation by reducing the amount of funds that
the system can transfer to sound projects whose sponsors cannot fulfill the
intermediaries' guarantee requirements.  If the Mexican banking system -an be
encouraged to start lending on the basis of project appraisals, one of FONEI's
objectives under the proposed loan (para 4.02), the efficiency of the entire
industrial sector could be improved.
3.05       The stock markets.  The development of the stock markets has lagged
behind that of the financial system. In 1974, only 5% of the Mex$135 billion
transacted on the three security exchanges 3/ was in stock, the rest being
fixed-return securities. Several reasons account for this retarded develop-
ment. The stock markets are thin, considerably decreasing the stocks' liquid-
ity. Information on transactions is scarce since a large proportion of
transactions take place through the commercial banks without public disclosure
of prices and volume. Disclosure requirements for publicly traded firms have
been minimal, lowering the public's confidence in investing in stock.
3.06       The banking legislation has impeded the development of the stock
markets by allowing the financieras to make equity investments of up to 25%
1/   Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pegue7na (FOGAIN)
lends to small and medium industries, Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
(FOMIN) makes temporary equity investments, Fondo de Estudios de Pre-
inversi6n (FONEP) finances preinvestment studies, and Fondo para el
Fomento de la Exportaci6n de los Productos Manufacturados (FOMEX) extends
pre- and post-export financing, at consessionary rates, for manufactured
goods. The other fund, FONEI, is described in Chapter IV.
2/   Process of making intercompany loans, the proceeds of which are used
to make equity investments in each other.
3/   Mexico (the largest), Monterrey and Guadalajara.



- 7 -
of the sum of their own equities plus their liabilities to the public. 1/
This allows the financieras to convert deposits from the public into equity
investments, generally for firms in the same group, considerably diminishing
the firms' need to raise equity funds in the stock markets. This has con-
tributed to concentrating the ownership of industrial firms.
3.07      Improvements to the financial system.  The authorities, concerned
about the system's weaknesses, are taking steps to correct them.  To strength-
en the stock markets, a new Securities Markets Law was enacted in January
1975. The purpose of they law is to provide the securities markets with a
mechanism to disseminate information on the features of traded securities
and their supply, the demand, and trading thereof, and to provide speedy and
efficient contact between buyers and sellers. The law regulates the activi-
ties of commercial banks vis-a-vis stock transactions and enlarges the
disclosure requirements for publicly traded firms. The authorities are also
encouraging the consolidation of the present multitude of financial insti-
tutions into 10-20 multi-banks, which would operate independently from non-
financial groups, thereby improving the allocation of credit. FONEI's intro-
duction of appraisal banking would contribute to this latter objective. The
process of de-pyramiding the large industrial groups, although of great
importance, must be carried out gradually since it requires a parallel de-
velopment of the stock markets.
Availability of Credit and the Interest Rate
3.08      Between 1969 and 1973 domestic credit grew slightly faster than
nominal GDP. In 1974, the monetary authorities, attempting to control
inflation, allowed credit to grow by only 20.5%, less than the 28.5% increase
in nominal GDP. As large amounts of credit were preempted by the public
sector, credit to the private sector became scarce and the general level of
interest rates increased accordingly. The share of manufacturing in total
credit fell from 25.5% in 1969 to 23.9% in 1974, with the subsectors' shares
remaining relatively stable (Annex 11).
3.09      About 46% of domestic credit outstanding in Mexico has terms of one
year or more. Detailed information on term credit is not available since
statistics aggregate all transactions with terms over one year. Financial
data on industrial firms are also limited. A study of small- and medium-scale
firms (equity of less than US$2 million) shows that manufacturing firms are
hardly leveraged at all. On average, the small- and medium-scale Mexican
industrial firms have a term-debt/equity ratio of 0.08:1 while their total
debt/equity ratio is 0.3:1. Comparable firms in Colombia and in the U.S.
show term-debt/equity ratios of 0.3:1 and total debt/equity of 1:1 (Annexes
12 and 13). Therefore, small- and medium-scale Mexican industrial firms can,
on the whole, absorb substantial debt while still maintaining a sound capital
1/   Since the banking legislation allows a 22.5:1 debt/equity ceiling on
financieras, theoretically they could have equity investments 5.9 times
their own equity.



structure. In contrast, a recently published study 1/ has shown that larger 2/
firms are highly leveraged, as a reflection of their ready access to credit
(para. 3.04). Thus, large firms are estimated to have a debt/equity ratio
of about 2.7:1. This figure, however, could be still grossly underestimated
because of pyramiding (para. 3.03). Once this is taken into account, their
debt/equity ratio could be as high as 5:1.
3.10      Medium and long-term industrial loans to better borrowers, have
interest rates that range from 14 to 18% p.a., depending on the relationship
between borrower and banker.  Short-term rates are higher at about 19% p.a.
During 1975 the average cost of funds to the financial system has risen as
interest paid on deposits increased and as the public shifted its deposits
into higher yielding instruments. Lately, lending rates have fallen slightly
reflecting the lower demand for credit because of the current Mexican reces-
sion.
3.11      The large and better connected industrial firms in Mexico also have
access to foreign credit. Loans are made at interest rates of 1-1/2 to 2-1/2
percentage points above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR) or the U.S.
prime rate--depending on the foreign bank's base--with the rates periodically
adjusted. In October 1975 such loans were available at about 8.5 to 9.5% p.a.
3.12      In late 1974 financieras began to use variable interest rates for
their medium-term lending to public sector enterprises. The loans carry an
interest rate two points above the weighted average cost of deposits to the
financieras, as calculated monthly by the Banco de Mexico.  In December 1975,
the average stood at about 12.0% after increasing from 9.9% in early 1973
(Annex 14), reflecting the increase in the general level of interest rates
(para. 3.08). Given the flexibility afforded by variable interest rates
loans, and since they are becoming more familiar to industrialists, under
the proposed loan FONEI would give its final borrowers the option of secur-
ing variables interest rates loans (para. 4.29).
IV. FONEI
THE INSTITUTION
4.01      FONEI, a trust fund of Banco de Mexico is a second tier institution
that promotes new or expansion industrial projects and finances them through
financial intermediaries.  Commercial banks and investment banks (financieras)
in compliance with Mexican laws and regulations are eligible for FONEI's
operations and thus may become one of its financial intermediaries.
1/   See "Relacion entre Estructura Fiscal, Politica Financiera de las
Empresas y Equidad Tributaria" by Lic. Francisco Gil Diaz (Banco de
Mexico, S.A.), in Contaduria Publica, August 1975.
2/   Firms that report taxable profits in excess of Mex$500,000 (US$40,000).



-9-
Obiectives and Policies
4.02      Under the proposed project FONEI would have two objectives; namely,
(a) to finance export-oriented and efficient import substitution industrial
projects with reasonable export prospects (para. 4.18) and (b) to encourage
intermediaries to lend on the basis of project appraisal (para. 5.02). FONEI's
Operating Regulations have been revised (Annex 15) to reflect the loan's
objectives and to adapt them better to FONEI's future operations.  The
approval by FONEI's Board (Technical Committee) of revised Operating Regula-
tions would be a condition of loan effectiveness and future changes in the
Operating Regulations would be possible only through consultation with the
Bank.
Board
4.03      FONEI's Board (Technical Cormittee) is composed of nine members,
six of whom are appointed by the Government and the rest represent Chambers
of Industry (Annex 16). The Board, which usually meets once a month to
discuss policy issues and to approve loans, is presided over by Mr. Hector
Hernandez, General Director of Economic Studies, Ministry of Finance. The
most active member of the body is Mr. Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado, Director of
Banco de Mexico. A senior official of Banco de Mexico was recently designated
coordinator of the activities of the various trust funds of Banco de Mexico
(Annex 10) and in this capacity he attends FONEI's Board Meetings. One of
the Board members, Mr. Deschamps, heads IMIT, FONEI's most used consultant
(para. 4.07), which creates a potential conflict of interest. His presence
at the Board is beneficial given his knowledge of Mexican industry. During
negotiations the Bank obtained assurances that the representative of IMIT
will abstain from voting on IMIT-appraised projects.
4.04      FONEI's Board has taken an active participation in directing the
allocation of FONEI's credits. For this purpose the Board has vested in
Mr. Fernandez Hurtado the power to screen loan applications before the start
of the appraisal of proposed investments. Based on a project profile prepared
by FONEI's technical staff, the export orientation of the proposed investment,
or the efficiency and desirability of the proposed import substitution are
checked. At this stage export projects are given preference over import
substitution projects; this qualitative preference is reinforced during the
projects' appraisals with the more stringent economic criteria applied during
appraisal to import substitutions projects (para. 4.18).
Management, Organization and Procedures
4.05      FONEI has had two chief executives since its inception.  The first,
appointed to set up the institution and get it started, was succeeded by
Mr. Lajous, who has demonstrated great leadership abilities, which were
crucial to the fast comnitment of the first Bank loan. He has promoted FONEI,
with both the industrial and banking communities and maintains a good working
relationship with the Board.



- 10 -
4.06      The rapid growth in lending volume (para. 4.22) left FONEI with an
unsuitable organization that lacked operating procedures and clearly defined
responsibilities thus decreasing the organization's efficiency. Recognizing
these weaknesses, FONEI's chief executive engaged in early 1975 a management
consultant of Banco de Mexico to propose a better organization, rationalize
FONEI's systems, and draft a procedures manual. The consultant's study is
almost finished and some of its recommendations are already being implemented
(Annex 17 shows FONEI's new Organizations Chart).
Project Appraisal and Procedures
4.07      Under the first loan all projects were appraised by several consul-
tants selected by FONEI. Lately, FONEI has relied increasingly on IMIT, 1/
which produces some of the better appraisals. The quality and depth of the
appraisals have been uneven--reflecting the consultants' different capabili-
ties--although there has been a clear overall improvement in the appraisals
through time. The appraisals should pay more attention to the projects'
organization and management, soundness of the marketing efforts and, to the
financial and economic analyses of the projects. These short-comings, however,
may be explained by the consultants' lack of guidance from FONEI on appraisal
matters (para. 4.11). To remedy this deficiency and to unify technical criteria,
the Bank held, at FONEI's request, a one week seminar attended by leading FONEI
consultants. The impact of this seminar proved positive.
4.08      FONEI's present coordination of the work between consultants and
final borrowers has three undesirable results. First, by the very minor role
played by the intermediaries, the impact of the appraisals on their lending
decisions is greatly diminished. Second, the intermediaries lose project
appraisal experience valuable for the introduction of appraisal lending.
Third, FONEI uses a large proportion of the scarce manpower in its techni-
cal department in dealing directly with final borrowers and consultants in-
stead of devoting itself to evaluating project appraisals.
4.09      Recognizing the shortcomings of the above system, some intermedia-
ries have shown interest in getting more closely involved in project appraisals
to use them as an additional lending criterion. To this end, they have con-
sidered setting up appraisal units, but have been discouraged from doing so
because of cost considerations. The proposed loan includes provisions to help
intermediaries to fund the cost of appraising projects. (para. 5.02)
Project Supervision
4.10      Until the intermediaries develop the institutional strength to
conduct effective project follow-up, FONEI has agreed to carry out this function
by establishing a standard follow-up procedure. To this end, a financial analyst
1/ Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas, a research and con-
sulting institution jointly sponsored by Banco de Mexico and NAFIN.



- 11 -
was hired in July 1975. By September, after devising a supervision plan, nine
projects had been visited already. The field visits are well prepared on the
basis of the projects' appraisals and on the periodic reports that the final
borrowers are requested to submit. A staff member of the project's inter-
mediary is required to participate jointly with FONEI's staff in the super-
vision visit. Shortly thereafter FONEI issues a report, copied to the inter-
mediary, including when necessary, recommendations for action. FONEI's present
project supervision procedures are adequate.
Technical Department
4.11      Although FONEI's capacity for guiding borrowers and consultants in
project appraisal and supervision matters has improved considerably, the
Technical Department's overall performance still requires improvement. During
a long period FONEI was unable to impress on the consultants the basic concepts
and methodology of project appraisal. Also, appraisal reviews mainly concen-
trated on minor project details instead of focusing on broader issues. This
unsatisfactory performance may be explained by the staff's lack of experience
and of proper internal guidance, since the Technical Department has had in-
adequate leadership and has been without a head during the last six months.
The hiring of a qualified head for the Technical Department may prove diffi-
cult because of PONEI's non-competitive remunerations and limited career
potential.
4.12      The Technical Department capabilities would have to be considerably
improved so that it can discharge its increased responsibilities under the
proposed loan. To this, end, several measures have been agreed upon with
FONEI, namely: (a) further training for several technical staff members
at the Bank, including attendance at EDI courses, (b) strengthening of FONEI's
Technical Department by the recruitment of one or two well qualified profes-
sionals, and (c) filling of the now vacant position of head of the Technical
Department by a well qualified professional. During negotiations agreement
was reached with FONEI on all necessary steps to ensure the improvement of
FONEI's technical staff.
4.13      Bank supervision of the proposed project would initially have to
include a heavy technical assistance component. To this end, supervision
mission, longer and more staff intensive than usual, would mainly concentrate
on providing guidance and technical assistance to FONEI, especially in its
role as outlined in para. 5.05.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
4.14      FONEI relies on the prospective borrower's judgment, experience and
self-interest to select equipment that is competitive in price and quality and
appropriate for the purpose in view. The procedures and checks regarding dis-
bursements for goods procured are thorough and ensure that payments are made
only for approved machinery, equipment, and services. FONEI, after a short
learning period, is disbursing the proceeds of the first Bank loan smoothly.



- 12 -
Audit
4.15      FONEI's accounts are audited by both Alfonso Ochoa Raviza, a
reputable Mexican auditing firm, and by Banco de Mexico's internal auditors.
None of their reports on FONEI's accounts has had qualifications. The
present arrangement is satisfactory.
Relations with the Government
4.16      While maintaining a close working relationship with the Ministry
of Finance, FONEI has been able to preserve its autonomy and to resist
political influence. The composition of FONEI's Board (para. 4.03) ensures
its close coordination with other Government agencies in related activities,
such as the Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior (IMCE), which promotes
Mexican products abroad, FDMEX, which provides comercial credit for exports,
and FONEP, which provides funds at concessionary terms for preinvestment
studies.
Resources
4.17      The Mexican Government initially funded FONEI with a non-repayable
contribution of Mex$125 million (US$10 million) and in mid-1972 the Bank
made a US$35 million loan to FONEI, to be repaid by the Mexican Government
to increase FONEI's equity. The Government, furthermore, undertook to
make available to FONEI additional funds of at least Mex$375 million (US$30
million) with a minimum maturity of 20 years. For this purpose, in October
1974, Banco de Mexico authorized FONEI to issue five-year, renewable obliga-
tions with a 9% p.a. interest rate which are being subscribed by financial
institutions for meeting their reserve requirements. Banco de Mexico has
assured the Bank that the obligations will be rolled-over for at least 20
years.
Types of Project Loans
4.18      FONEI finances, through financial intermediaries, the cost of fixed
assets of export-oriented and efficient import substitution industrial pro-
jects with reasonable export prospects. Besides the qualitative preference
given by FONEI's Board to export projects (para. 4.04), more stringent economic
tests are imposed on projects that initially substitute imports. In addition
to an acceptable economic rate of return, their product prices must be no
higher than 125% of the c.i.f. value of comparable imports. The application
of these criteria have oriented FONEI's operations decisively towards the
financing of export-oriented projects.
4.19      FONEI also finances feasibility studies, including final engineer-
ing in which case FONEI has to approve the consultant and his term of refer-
ence. Should a feasibility study lead to a project, the cost is consolidated
with the project loan; otherwise FONEI absorbs part of the cost and the client
the rest.



- 13 -
Terms and Limits of Financing
4.20      FONEI's minimum loan is Mex$3.5 million (US$280,000);  its maxi-
mum is Mex$37.5 million (US$3 million).  Loans have a maximum term of 13 years,
with up to three years of grace. These limits, which are appropriate, would
be maintained but may be changed by FONEI's Technical Committee, in consulta-
tion with the Bank.
4.21      Within the above mentioned limits, FONEI participates jointly with
the intermediary and the final borrower in the financing of fixed assets costs
of projects. FONEI's financing may cover up to 65% (new projects) or 72%
(expansion projects) of the fixed asset costs. The financial intermediary's
participation has to amount to at least 11% of FONEI's financing.  In addition,
the intermediary must ensure that the projects have adequate working capital
financing. The final borrower has to finance at least 25% (new projects) or
20% (expansion projects) of the fixed assets cost. For feasibility studies,
FONEI's participation amounts to a maximum of 80% of their costs, with the
industrial enterprise financing the remainder. These percentages, which are
reasonable, may be changed by FONEI's Technical Coinittee, in consultation
with the Bank.
B.   OPERATIONS
Loan Approvals
4.22      Because of managerial problems, lack of promotion and high liquidity
in the banking system, FONEI did not make any loans during 1972, its first
year of existence. More active promotion by a new management which took over
in early 1973, together with an increase in the general level of interest
rates which made FONEI's 11% p.a. relending rate more attractive, enabled
FONEI to extend its first loans during the second semester of 1973. Durirng
this period FONEI's Board approved loans totalling Mex$210 million (US$17 mil-
lion) and in 1974 approvals had increased to Mex$480 million (US$38 million).
During 1975, FONEI's approvals would decrease considerably to an expected level
of about Mex$375 million (US$30 million) because of the impact of the current
world recession on the Mexican economy. By September 1975 FONEI had approved
( 6 loans totalling Mex$987 million (US$79 million) of which five loans (Mex$1.5
*          million) were for feasibility studies.  The proceeds of the first Bank loan,
which was fully commriitted by June 1975, were distributed among 41 projects.
As of year-end 1975, the Bank had disbursed about US$23 million compared to
the appraisal's estimate of the whole US$35 million. This lag is explained,
however, by FONEI's initial delay in approving projects.
4.23      An analysis of FONEI's loan approvals 1/ is shown in Annex 18.  The
loan size distribution has a mean of Mex$21 million (US$1.7 million) and is
skewed towards the larger loans. About 41% (69% of the lending volume) are
larger than Mex$25 million (US$2 million). Only about 15% (of both loans and
1/   Loans in the financing of which the Bank has participated.



- 14 -
volume) went to finance new projects. FONEI's strengthened promotion (para.
5.07) should increase this percentage under the proposed loan. Leading sectors
in FONEI's operations were metallurgical products with 22% of all approvals,
chemicals with 16%, and non-metallic products with 14%. All of FONEI's
borrowers benefitted from loan terms designed to match the cash generation of
their project: about 85% of FONEI's loans have terms between 6 and 13 years.
In contrast, loans of financieras are usually for shorter terms.
Loan Portfolio
4.24      FONEI's loan portfolio stood at Mex$565 million (US$45.2 million) as
of September 30, 1975. This portfolio is virtually risk-free since the finan-
cial intermediaries are liable for the timely payments to FONEI of interest
and principal, irrespective of the final borrowers' servicing of the debt.
Most of FONEI loans are still in either their disbursement or grace period;
final borrowers have serviced on time the interest payments due to the inter-
mediaries. FONEI, agreed to include in the standard loan agreement with its
intermediaries a clause requiring them to report arrears on FONEI 's loans
and ary other critical information, so that FONEI receives early indications
of problems that the projects may be facing.
Participating Intermediaries
4.25      By September 1975, FONEI had operated through 17 intermediaries
which are affiliated in 10 financial groups (Annex 19). FONEI's loans have
been made through their banks or financieras, depending on their resource
availabilities. Six leading financial groups have intermediated 40 of the
56 FONEI operations and hold, therefore, about 72% of the value of FONEI's
portfolio. These six financial groups, given their managerial and financial
strength, wide geographic coverage, and better qualified staff, would con-
stitute the main target of FONEI's efforts towards introducing appraisal
banking in Mexico (para 5.03).
Financial Results
4.26      Annexes 20 to 22 show FONEI's audited financial statements from
inception through December 31, 1974. FONEI's revenues increased from Mex$5.8
million in 1972 to Mex$19.0 million in 1974 as funds were shifted away from
low-yield deposits with Banco de Mexico to FONEI's higher-yield loan portfolio.
FONEI's expenses have been minimal, so that net income amounted to Mex$2.1
million in 1972 and Mex$2.8 million in 1973, a 1.7% and 2% return on average
total assets, respectively. During 1974, however, the payment of consultant
appraisal fees (Mex$1.3 million) lowered net income to Mex$2.4 million, a 1%
return on average total assets. Provisional results for the first three
quarters of 1975 indicate that FONEI's profitability has dropped further to
about 0.8% return on average total assets. This trend would be reversed by
the higher interest spread that FONEI is expected to have under the proposed
loan.



- 15 -
FONEI's Performance Under the First Loan
4.27      FONEI has financed efficient projects of high economic priority
with significant impact on the balance of payments and has contributed to the
Government's decentralization efforts. The priority and efficiency of FONEI's
projects are indicated by their high average economic (40%) and financial
(18%) real rates of return. These projects will also directly generate
about 4300 new jobs once they reach capacity. Reflecting FONEI's export
emphasis (para. 4.18), once these projects reach their full capacity annual
exports by companies undertaking them are expected to be about 400% above
their 1973 level, generating about US$65 million p.a. of additional exports.
Moreover, about 15% of the incremental output of FONEI's projects would be
exported compared to only about 3.8% of total industrial output in 1974.
FONEI's contribution to the industrial decentralization effort is shown by
the fact that only 20% of FONEI's financing has gone to the Mexico City area.
4.28      Although FONEI has financed economically sound projects it has not
yet played its proper role in the Mexican financial system beyond transferring
resources to Mexico. From the time it began operations up to mid-1973, credit
was easily available and, although FONEI's relending rate of 11% p.a. to the
final borrower was slightly below the cost of alternative funds, intermediaries
having excess reserves discouraged prospective borrowers from using FONEI
funds. In mid-1973 credit began to be tight and intermediaries became willing
to use FONEI funds. In 1974-75 FONEI's relending rate was well below that of
alternative funds (para. 3.08), creating a situation of non-price credit
rationing. Intermediaries therefore had every incentive to allocate FONEI's
funds to borrowers offering the best guarantees --generally the larger borrowers
and particularly those within the same financial industrial group. This re-
sulted in part of FONEI's loans going to borrowers who might well have secured
alternative financing on adequate terms.
FONEI's Interest Rate Under the Proposed Loan
4.29      To improve the allocation of FONEI's funds and to maintain its
relending rate in line with future changes in the cost of alternative funds,
FONEI would have higher and variable interest rates. Under the proposed
loan, FONEI would initially charge a 13.5% p.a. interest rate to the final
borrowers. This interest rate would be adjusted, whenever necessary, to fully
reflect changes of at least 0.25 percentage points of the average cost of debt
funds to the financieras, as calculated monthly by Banco de Mexico (para. 3.12).
4.30      Final borrowers would be able to choose between two interest rate
regimes; namely, (a) a variable interest rate which would change every semester,
if necessary, to reflect changes in the Banco de Mexico average, or (b) a flat
interest rate, throughout the life of the loan, determined as the interest rate
prevailing at the time of loan commitment. Under both interest rate regimes
FONEI would give to the financial intermediaries an interest rate spread of
two percentage points.



- 16 -
4.31      The proposed interest rate mechanism for FONEI would be functionally
linked to the average cost bf debt funds to the financieras. Since Mexico, an
open economy, has to follow a monetary policy which ensures the maintenance of
interest rates in line with those in major financial centers, the average (made
up by the different interest rates paid to depositors) would vary with changes
in financial conditions and would, in the long run, be positive in real terms.
FONEI's relending rates, about 1.5 percentage points higher than this average
would therefore, be positive in real terms and remain in line with the cost
of alternative sources of domestic financing.
V. THE PROJECT
FONEI's Future Role
5.01      Under the proposed project, FONEI would play two important roles in the
Mexican economy; namely, (a) the financing of industrial projects with a subs-
tantial impact on Mexico's balance of payments and, (b) the encouragement of
financial intermediaries to lend on the basis of project appraisal. Given
Mexico's pressing needs to increase its foreign exchange earnings, FONEI in
its first role would increasingly pursue its marked orientation towards export
projects (para 4.18). Moreover, as FONEI becomes better known and gains further
acceptance by both the business and financial communities it is likely to become
a more important source of term funds and to be in a better position to focus
its lending on priority sectors of the economy. The impact of FONEI would be
further strengthened by the role it would play in Mexico's financial sector:
the introduction of appraisal banking. As intermediaries begin to appraise
projects their exacting collateral requirements may gradually be lowered. This,
together with the proposed increase in FONEI's relending rates, would enable
FONEI to finance, on adequate terms, sound projects that presently are not
being implemented because of lack of financing.
Transfer of Appraisals to Intermediaries
5.02      To encourage intermediaries to appraise projects a two-step approach
would be used. As a first step, the responsibility for the coordination, during
project appraisal, between final borrowers and consultants, would be transferred
from FONEI to the intermediaries. As a second step, FONEI would induce inter-
mediaries to set up in-house appraisal units (para. 5.04). In both cases FONEI
would contribute towards the costs of appraising projects by (a) reimbursing
intermediaries for the consultants' costs and/or (b) paying intermediaries a
reasonable fee for appraisals made by their in-house appraisal units.
5.03      The transfer of appraisal responsibility from FONEI to the inter-
mediaries would be achieved by:
(i) requiring intermediaries to assume responsibility for the
appraisal of projects that need FONEI loans larger than Mex$30
million (US$2.4 million). Under the first Bank loan, about
27% of FONEI loans were larger than Mex$30 million and over



- 17 -
80% of these loans were intermediated by the six financial
groups which are the target of FONEI's effort towards
introducing appraisal banking (para. 4.25). The intermedia-
ries, when required to be responsible for a project appraisal,
would have to choose a consultant--initially from a list of
consultants supplied by FONEI, to coordinate the work between
final borrower and consultant, and to be responsible for the
quality and thoroughness of the appraisals.
(ii)  persuading intermediaries with smaller loans to gradually
assume the appraisal responsibility. The extent of FONEI's
involvement in these appraisals would be determined by the
intermediaries' capabilities.
In both cases, to ensure that appraisals become more relevant documents in the
intermediaries' lending decisions, FONEI would request them to prepare, even
for projects in whose appraisal the intermediary did not participate, a short
project summary which would have to be initialed by one of its high ranking
officers. This summary, besides helping to show to the intermediaries' manage-
ment the advantages of project appraisal, would serve as a basis, complemented
by the whole project appraisal, of FONEI's Board lending decision.
5.04      The second step towards having intermediaries appraise projects would
be to have FONEI pay to those intermediaries which establish appraisal units a
reasonable fee for individual project appraisals. This fee would compcnsate
the intermediaries for costs incurred in appraising the project, and thus help
fund their in-house appraisal units.  A basic appraisal unit would be formed
by three to four people with expertise in financial analysis, management,
marketing and economics. Since the range of industrial project is wide, the
intermediaries would be encouraged to use consultants for technical aspects of
the projects. To qualify for the appraisal fee, the intermediary's project
appraisal would have to be comprehensive and include both the financial and
economic analyses of the projects. The economic analysis would be performed by
the intermediary so that it knows whether a particular project meets all of
FONEI's requirements in this regard. 1/
5.05      Intermediaries, as they begin appraising projects, should start
receiving guidance on appraisal methodology and concepts through FONEI's
reviews of their project appraisals. PONEI's role towards intermediaries
would be similar to the Bank's towards its first tier DFCs 2/. This necessi-
tates, therefore, a different Bank approach vis-a-vis FONEI. The Bank will
need to concentrate on strenghtening FONEI's capability to carry out its
future role towards intermediaries, rather than on further developing FONEI's
own project appraisal capability. This emphasis would be appropriate also
since projects come to the Bank for approval when most of the investnent and
financing decisions already have been made, considerably limiting the influ-
ence that the Bank could have on the projects. Developing the required
1/   The intermediaries and FONEI are expected to follow the Bank's "Guide-
lines for Calculation of Economic Rates of Return on DFC Subprojects."
2/   Typical DFCs that perform their own project appraisals.



- 18 -
capabilities in FONEI will demand closer contacts between Bank and FONEI staff,
in particular, more frequent and longer supervision missions (para. 4.13).
5.06      During negotiations agreement was reached with FONEI on the
proposed transfer of project appraisal to the intermediaries, on the reim-
bursement to intermediaries of appraisal costs, and the payment of a reason-
able fee for individual project appraisals to those intermediaries which
establish in-house appraisal units.
Promotion
5.07      The expected reduction in the intermediaries' collateral require-
ments--as they begin to appraise projects--together with the increase in
FONEI's relending rates--which would discourage large borrowers with alter-
native sources of financing from seeking FONEI funds--, would enable FONEI
to direct its lending towards smaller and less sophisticated borrowers than
in the past. These are the industrialists who traditionally have not been
able to secure financing, on adequate terms, for their sound projects because
of lack of collateral. FONEI should strengthen its promotional efforts to
make more of these industrialists aware of its existence and thus increase
the potential demand for its funds. For this demand to materialize, however,
the intermediaries' top management and operational staff should become
familiar with FONEIts operations.  FONEI, therefore, should continue its
dialogue with the financial groups' top management but should also undertake
a new promotional effort, concentrated on the intermediaries' operational
staff, to explain FONEI's activities and modus operandi. FONEI has agreed
to take steps for a coordinated promotional effort directed towards indus-
trialists and intermediaries.
FONEI's Prospects
5.08      Operations Forecast.  A forecast of approvals, 1/ commitments and
disbursements for 1975-79 is given in Annex 23. During 1975-76 approvals are
expected to be lower than their 1974 level as a reflection of (a) a significant
slowdown in investment in Mexico, particularly for export-oriented projects,
due to the world economic situation; (b) a decreased demand for FONEI's funds
since borrowers with alternative sources of finance would rather seek financing
elsewhere; and (c) the gradual adjustment by intermediaries to their new role.
However, as a result of the expected improvement of the world economy, the
stronger promotional effort by FONEI and a better working FONEI-intermediary
system, loan approvals are expected to increase at a rate of 10% p.a. from
1977 on. This growth rate seems attainable.
5.09      Resource Requirements.  Based on its projected level of loan
approvals of Mex$1,200 million (US$96 million) through the first quarter
of 1978, FONEI would have a resource need of Mex$1,105 million, of which
1/   Since FONEI is a second-tier institution, its approval gives rise to an
intermediary's commitment. Moreover, the Bank authorizes sub-projects
on FONEI's approval. FoUowing analyses, therefore, are on an "approval"
instead of the usual "commitment" basis.



- 19 -
Mex$600 (US$48 million) would be in foreign exchange (Annex 24). The domestic
currency needs would be covered by (a) internal cash generation, including
loan collection, in the amount of Mex$137 million, and (b) at least. Mex$500
million (US$40 million) to be made available to FONEI by the Mexican Govern-
ment. For this purpose the Government has expressed its intention to allow
FONEI to issue bonds carrying at most a 10% p.a. interest rate and having a
maturity  of at least the life of the Bank loan.  These bonds would be
subscribed by financial institutions for meeting their reserve requirements.
During negotiations the Government undertook to make available to FONEI such
funds as shall be needed under the project, through arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank. The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would cover FONEI's
foreign exchange needs during the next two years.
5.10      Projected Financial Results.  Since FONEI's relending interest rate
would be variable under the proposed loan, its financial projections and hence
its financial results would be subject to a high degree of uncertainty. How-
ever, even assuming a decline in FONEI's relending interest rate (Annex 25), its
net income would still be satisfactory. Return on average total assets would
increase from about 1% in 1974 and a still somewhat lower level in 1975, to
an average of 1.4/ during 1978-79 because of the relative fall in administrative
expenses, which include appraisal fees paid to intermediaries and consultants.
Such expenses would remain relatively constant between 1975 and 1979, at 0.3%
of average total assets. Total assets would increase more than seven times
in the period 1974-79: a 50% p.a. growth rate (Annexes 20 to 22).
VI. PROPOSED BANK LOAN
6.01      The proposed US$50 million loan to assist FONEI for the next two
years in covering its foreign exchange requirements would be on terms and
conditions usual for Bank loans to development finance companies, including
the standard commitment charge. The borrower would be NAFIN. As under
the first loan, Banco de Mexico would sign the Project Agreement and the
Mexican Government would guarantee the loan. NAFIN would make arrangements
with Banco de Mexico, satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer of the pro-
ceeds of the Bank loan. The proposed loan would be renaid by the Mexican
Government to further increase FONEI's equity. Interest and other charges
on the proposed loan would be paid by FONEI.
6.02      The Bank loan would cover the c.i.f. cost of imports, including
goods purchased 5'off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors if c.i.f. prices
can be established, or alternatively, a maximum of 70% (tariffs, local taxes,
domestic freight, mark-up, etc. add up to an average of about 30% of the price)
of the domestic price of imported goods. Only expenditures made up to 180 days
prior to the date on which the Bank receives a subloan for approval would be
eligible for Bank financing. The Bank's normal 90-day limit would be waived
because of FONEI's double intermediation, a longer process. The terminal date
for submission of subprojects under the loan would be June 30, 1978; the clos-
ing date for disbursements, December 31, 1979 (Annex 26).



- 20 -
6.03      Retroactive financing.  As requested by FONEI, the Bank loan
would include provision for reimbursing FONEI for approved disbursements up
to US$5 million equivalent, made between October 1975, when the new interest
rate regimes were implemented and the date of the Loan Agreement. The projects
eligible for retroactive financing (they must carry an interest rate of at
least 13.5% p.a. to the final borrower) were agreed with FONEI during nego-
tiations.
6.04      FONEI relending rates to final borrowers--and intermediaries--would
be variable, as described in para. 4.29. The financial intermediaries would
have an interest rate spread of 2%. The interest rate level, the formula, and
the interest rate spread may be modified, however, in light of experience in
consultations between Banco de Mexico and the Bank. FONEI's free limit would
be raised from US$500,000 to US$750,000, in view of FONEI's increased
experience. This limit implies that about 45% of the subprojects financed
under the loan would require prior approval by the Bank.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached:
(i)  with the Government on:
(a) FONEI's relending rate (para. 4.29);
(b) provision of domestic currency resources for FONEI
(para. 5.09); and
(c) arrangements for the transfer to FONEI of the proceeds
of the Bank loan (para. 6.01).
(ii)  with FONEI on:
(a) consultation with the Bank on future change in its
Operating Regulations (para. 4.02);
(b) the abstention of IMIT's representative on FONEI's
Board from participating in Board decisions involving
IMIT appraised projects (para. 4.03);
(c) steps and measures to improve the Technical Department
staff (para. 4.11);
(d) the transfer of project appraisal to the intermediaries,
the reimbursement to intermediaries of appraisal costs,
and the payment of a reasonable fee for individual
project appraisals to those intermediaries which
establish appraisal units (para. 5.06); and



- 21 -
(e)  list of projects eligible for retroactive financing
(para. 6.03).
7.02      Approval by FONEtI's Board (Technical Committee) of acceptable Oper-
ating Regulations for FONEI would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.4.02).
7.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$50 million to FONEI, as outlined in Chapter VI. To improve the
country's external debt profile, the proposed loan would have a term of 16
years including three years of grace.
LCPDF
January 1976






If        X                             ~                                                      BRD -i0415
14~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66
'0 766760               66:dl. 67666                                                                                                                                                                                6 <_/a +fye  
76. 36466(0  76. 7767606 ~ ~     ~             ~              ~             ~~                         ~            ~Gu                  F               F        MF       IC
76   66176               60. W0    Z 6j,I
~~~~~~~5J 7710 .... 26666  6667l  6, 6.6767              6. 7602776 . 
6677777  66  6 7   6.   6 7co 6 7W 6  (7'6v,
M~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXI CO.. 
Lt.                                   DsS                                    x < L   'C                                   e           )             F   S                ()             /         %X 
12. -AAPIT                   -ZARtTPr,>W  ' 
Wwtt s@ S1 2EASXCT ET ZUAN~~AJUIt tQEEAAr> TrrlCH us



I



MEXCO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI)PROJECT
Size Distribution and Other Indicators Of Mexico's Indust=             V.r Axnual   Net Capi-  Output   Output
/1                                                                           I /3  Jage Per  tal per    per      Capital
Size Ran,7e       Establishments      Ewloyment          Wae  Bill    Net Caital    Gross out ut                            El e   Worker   Ratio
(by (bmloyees)      Njier) (Mex$ mill.)                                                        mi(lexl-I    )    (Mex$) J2X$-
Fihms with Paid
Personnel
up to  25           53,510    44.6    272,205    17.2         2,896.6      11,l447.5      19,006.4       8.9     10,6414      4o,953    69,824    1.70
26 -   50            3,532     2.9    126,643      8.0        2,147.6       9,603.7       13,811.5       6.5     16,958       75,833   109,058   '1.44
51 -  100            2,492     2.1    176,829    11.2         3,556.2      16,724.5       22,682.8      10.7     20,111       94,580   128,275    1.36
101 -  250            1,796     1.5    283,163    17.9         6,326.6      30,935.3       441.837.3     1927    22,343      109.249   147.750    1,35
Subtotal   _61,330    51.2    858,840    54.3         14,837.0    684,112.0        97.338.0
251 -  500              653     0.5    227,644    14.4         5,oOo.9      29,808.2       37,840.2      17.8     25,517      130,942   166,225    1.27
More than 501           412     0.3    402 800    25.5        12,254.4      57 454.3       75,594,9    5.6         30,423      142,637   187,672    1.32
Subtotal     10         7       3,4        399        18,063.3     o7,2 5        113,435.1      53.
Firms with Paid      62,395    52.0  1,409,20h   9L.2         32,900.3    155,673,5       210,773.1      99.2     22,153      104,529   141,526    1.35
Personnel 
Firrms without
Paid Personnel $7.568    48.0          91,963   5 8                           742.5       1,631.3       0.8                     .07     17734   _2.20
TOTAL           119, 963   100.0  1,581,247   100.0        32,992.8    156,416.0       212,404.4    100.0              _134,327    1.36
/  Including 980 firms in extractive industries (SIC groups 11-16).
/  Including 60,586 workers in extractive industries.
/  Book value as of December 31, 1970.
SOURCE: Secretaria de Industria y Comercio, IX Censo Industrial, 1971.
LCPDF
November, 397Cc



M?CO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIEWiT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Profile o!f Manufacturini Sector, 1970
Book Value2             Gross Value of
Establishments       mplont_ of Assets-                                  2 Output       Value Added
SIC    3   Subsectors             NiLmber       %sMex                            ll    .           Mex$ mill.              Mex$ mill.        %
20  Food processing              55,667    45.8       300.5   19.8        21,930       14.5        38,871        18,8       18,015        19.0
21  Beverages                     2,097     1.8        67.8     4.5        9,137        6.2        11,81)4        5.7        5,026         5.3
22  Tobacco                          63     0.1        10.7     0.7        1,682        1.1         3,027         1.5        2,073         2.2
23  Textiles                      3,592     3.0       154.5   10.2        13,599        8.3        15,368         7.4        9,747        10.3
24  Footwear                      2,496     2.1        35.7     2.4        1,215        0.8         2,177         1.0 )
24- Apparel                      11,212     9.4        88.8     5.8        3,703         2.5        6,012         2.9 )     12,750        13.5
25 Lumber products                3,589     3.0        42.0     2.8        1,846        1.2         2,389         1.5 )      1 770         1.9
26  Furniture & fixtures          3,819     3.2        33.6     2.2        1,296         0.9        2,074         1.0 )
27  Paper & products                617     0.5        37.5     2.5        6,463        4.3         7,390         3.6        2,380         2.5
28  Printing and publishing       4,632     3.9        56.9     3.7        4,173         2.8        5,431         2.6        3,004         3.2
29  Leather and products          1,318     1.1        11.9     0.8          799        0.5         1,178         o.6        1,381         1.5
30  Rubber products               3,440     3.0        22.2     1.5        1,766         1.2        3,608         1.7        1,379         1.5
31  Chemicals & products          3,028     2.5       138.8     9.1       23,056       15.4        27,914        13.5         7,675        8.1
33  Nonmetallic mineral products  8,266     7.0        91.3     6.o        9,758         6.5        8,646         4.2        4,825         5.1
34  Basicmetals                     334     0.3        69.9     4.6       14,792        9.8        24,080        11.6         5,120        5.4
35 Metal fabricating              8,904     7.5       121.5     8.o        9,130         6.o       11,723         5.7        3,905         4.1
36 Machinery (non-electrical)    2,312      1.9        45.2     3.0        5,015         3.3        5,078         2.5        2,917         3.1
37  Electrical machinery
& appliances                1,062     0.9        88.5     5.8         8,094        5.4       11,198         5.4        4,512         4.8
38 Transport equipment               809    0.7        70.2     4.6       10,303         6.8       15,347         7.4         6,248        6.6
39 Miscellaneous industries        1,726     2.2       28.2     1.9        2,133         1.4        2,232         1.1         1.952        2.1
TOTAL         118,983   100.0   1,520.7   100.0        151,093      100.0       206,843       100.0       94.688       100.0
j  Standard Industrial Classification.
/ As of December 31, 1970.
SOURCE: Secretaria de Industria y Comercio, IX Censo Industrial 1971.
LCPDF
Novemb er, 1975



ANNEX 4
MXCO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Profile of Manufacturing Sector, 1970, Averages per Fi_m
Book Value                             Value Added/
Paid    Book Value   Assets/Paid                                  Paid
Subsector                   EMloye.s of Assets        Emloyee        OutDut   Value Added    E?Mex$ 00e
M;; e o       Mx 000        MU  00       Max$ 000      mx   6
Food processing                   5.4        393.9         72.9       698.3        323.6        60.0
Beverages                        32.3       4357.2        134.9       5633.8      2396.8        74.1
Tobacco                         109.8      26698.4        157.2     48047.6      32904.8       193.7
Textiles                         43.0       3785.9         88.0      4278.4       2713.5        63.1
Footwear                         14.3        486.8         34.0       872.2
930.1       19.2
Apparel                           7.9        330.3         41.7       213.1      J
Lumber products                  11.7        514.3         44.0       665.6
238.9       23.4
Furniture and fixtures           10.5        406.4         38.6       650.4
Paper and products               60.8      10474.9        172.3     11977.3       3857.4        63.4
Printing and publishing          12.3        900.9         73.3       1172.5       648.5        52.7
leather and products              9.0        606.2         67.1       893.8       1047.8       116.4
Rubber products                   6.5        513.4        513.4       1048.8       400.9       212.2
Chemicals and products           45.8       7614.3        166.1       9218.6      2534.7        55.3
Nonmetallic mineral products   11.0         1180.5        106.9       1046.o       583.7        53.1
Basic metals                    209.3      44287.4        211.6     72095.8      15329.3        73.2
Metal fabricating                13.6       1025.4         75.1       1316.6       438.6        32.2
Machinery (non-electrical)       19.6       2169.1        111.0      2196.4       1261.7        64.4
Electrical machinery, appliances83.3        7621.5         91.5     1o544.3       4248.6        51.0
Transport equipment              86.8      12735.5        146.8     18970.3       7723.1        89.0
Miscellaneous industries         16.3       1235.8         75.6       1293.2      1130.9        69.4
Overall Average         14.0       1269.9         99.4       1738.4       795.8        62.2
LCP DF
November 1975



MEXICO
SECOND INaJSTRTAL EQUIPMIET FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Manufacturing Value Added by Economic Classification
Average                              Average
1965               1970             Annual Growth          1974         Annual Growth
Mex$       %       _ Mex$ %_            Rate 1965-70       Mex$       T     Rate 1970-74
Consumers Goods Industries
Food, beverages, tobacco     16,555   31.6       25,114   26.5            8.7            51,230   27.5          13.4
Footwear, apparel, leather
goods                         5,329   10.2      14,131   14.9           21.5           28,328   15.2          20.4
Wood products and printing    2,821    5.4        4,774    5.0           11.1             8,183    4.4          12.6
Consumer durables              2,703    5.2       4,512    4.8           10.8            6,934    3.7           11.0
Automobiles                    1,607    3.1       3,738    4.0           18.4             6,787    3.6          17.4
Other consumer goods           1,155    2.2       1,952    2.1           11.1             3,838    2.1          14.3
Total Consumer Goods        30,170   57.5      54,275   57.3           12.5           105,320   56.5          14.9
Intermediate Goods Industries
Textiles                       5,052    9.6       9,747   10.3           14.0            17,228    9.3          14.6
Paper                          1,625    3.1       2,380    2.5            7.9             5,495    3.0          14.5
Chemicals and rubber           5,211    9.9       9,054    9.6           11.7            18,240    9.8          14.9
Non-metallic minerals          2,353    4.5       4,825    5.1           15.4             9,053    4.9          16.2
Basic metals                   3,092    5.9       5,120    5.4           10.6            10,985    5.9          15.1
Metal products                 1,994    3.8       3,905    4.1           14.4             9,029    4.8          18.3
Total Intermediate Goods   19,327   36.8       35,031   37.0           12.6            70,030   37.6          15.4
Capital Goods Industries
Machinery          1/          1,785    3.4       2,917    3.1            10.3            4,621    2.5          11.1
Transport equipmentl           1,170    2.2       2,465    2.6            16.1            6,275    3.4          20.5
Total Capital Goods          2,955    5.6       5,382    5.7            12.7           10,896    5.9          15.6
Total Vqlue Added in Manu-
facturing                    52,452  100.0       94,688  loo.o            12.5         186,246  100.0           15.1
Source:  Informe Anual, 1974, Banco de Mexico.
1/ Excluding automobiles.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 6
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Nominal and Effective Protection /
Nominal Protection        Effective Protection
Tariffs                    Tariffs
Subsector                       Only       Implicit2/      Only         Implicit/
Processed food                   21.2       18.3            23.0           4.7
Beverages and tobacco            69.8       28.8           257.8          48.1
Construction materials           26.3       -3.6            97.0           o.6
3asic intermediate goods         24.4       21.8            58.o          42.2
Adared intermediate goods        33.5       24.6            67.0          42.0
Non-durable consumer goods       63.9       25.4           129.2          31.9
Durable consumer goods3/         40.8       49.0            86.7         100.9
Machinery                       10.6        28.8            10.1          40.6
Transport equipment              18.0       26.6            29.6          41.8
Total Manufacturing             -        25.0              -           28.0
Total Manufacturing except
food beverages, tobacco and
construction materials         -         28.0              -          43.0
j G. Bueno "Structure of Protection in Mexico" in The Structure of Protection in
Developing Countries, Bela Balassa and Associates, 1971
2/ Based on price comparison. Includes effects both of licensing and of water in
tariff rates.
3 Includes automobiles.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 7
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EqJIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Tariff Schedules Before and After July 1975  Revision
Number of Import Classifications
Tariff Rate                    -Before                   A'tbe-
(%)
0.0                            14                      6
5.0                            21                     25
10.0                            67                     33
15.0                           276                     53
20.0                           129                    272
25.0                            65                     15
35.0                            91                     56
50.0                            41                     86
75.0                            23                     29
100.0                             -                     16
Total                            731                    731
Averagel/tariff rate (%)          22                     28
j The average is weighted by number of classifications in each category. In
October 1975 the Secretaria de Industria y Comercio had not completed
a comparison of the average rate using value of imports as weights.
Discussions with the Secretaria indicated,nonetl'eless   that the
comparison shown above is approximately correct.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 8
- . _ O
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUI1NENT FUND (FONEI) PR1OJECT
Subbeotoral Detasbutr$Mn of Manufactured E?rts
(i{j$ thou$ands and %)
Average                           Average
Anmal- Growth            ~~Annual Growrth
1965             1970       Rate ul6 57_h         1974         Rate 19,70-74
Consumer Goods
Food, beverages and
tobacco                  41,981   20.7   53,628   15.2         5.0         157,394   12.0         30.9
Footwear and apparel        5,066    2.5    9,402    2.7        11.3           72,306    5.5        66.5
Wood products and printing  13,850    6.8   27,835    7.9       15.0           62,607    4.8        22.5
Consumer durables           2,149    1.1     6,995    2.0       26.6          41,330    3.2         55.9
Automobiles                    21     -         11     -       -12.1          36,467    2.8        658.8
Other                      32.509  16.0   52,995  15.0          10.3         212.835  16.3          41.5
Total Consumer Goods     95,575  40.T                                      5 99.2
Intermediate Goods
Textiles                   23,719   11.7   28,998    8.2         4.1         195,585   15.0         61.2
Paper                       1,631    0.8    1,765    0.5         1.6            4,504    0.3        26.4
Chbinicali and rubber      43,529   21.4   81,417   23.0        13.3         261,113   20.0         33.8
Non-metallic minerals       9,457   4.7   11,480    3.2          4.0           32,535    2.5        29.7
Basic metals               23,754   11.7   33,504    9.5         7.1           73,881    5.6        21.9
Metal products              1.699   0.8      3 63     1.0       16.4          -.23    0             26.4
Total Intermediate Goods 103,789  51 .1  160;699 i       ;7-6911 44.1                             37.6
Capital Goods
Machinery                   2,579    1.3    8,995    2.5        28.4           40,719    3.1        L5.9
Trwnwport equipment        1.099   0 5   32 960    9.3          97-4          107,185    8.2        34.3
Total Capital Goods       3,675      8                                      170  411.              7
Total Iianufactured
Exports (USmnillion)     203  100.0       354  100.0       11.7            1,308  100.0        38.7
as % of ranufacturing output 1.6              2.0                               3.8
SOURCE: Indicadores Econ6onicos, Banco de Mexico, S.A.
LCPDF
Novlber 1975



ANNEX 9
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMT FUND (FONEI)PROJECT
Geographical Distribution of Manufacturing Activities
(1970)
Gross Value of
Establishments         Employment               Output
N Xie                (000)      %    f      ii    Me$ 
Distrito Federal    29,436      24.7      491.4    32.3          68,021.1      32.9
Jalisco              9,142       7.7       96.0      6.3        11,909.0        5.8
Mexico               9,029       7.6      227.9     15.0         39,598.o      19.1
Nuevo Leon           4,450      3.7      123.9      8.2         23,767.4      11.5
All Others          66.926     _6.3       581.5    38.2          63,548.2      30.7
TOTAL       118,983     100.0    1,520.7    100.0       206,843.7      100.0
SOURCE:  Secretarla de Industria y Comercioa, IX Censo Industrial 1971
LCPDF
October, 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ME:XICO
SECOND INDUSTRTIkI EQUIPMENT FUND (mONEI) PROJECT
Financial Institutions and Intermediation in Mexico
Financial Institutions
1.        Mexico's wide range of financial institutions may be classified by
ownership as public, private and mixed. The public institutions are government-
owned and are explicitly run for public purposes, the private ones are operated
as profit-seeking intermediaries while the nixed-ownership institutions, with
both public and private participation in their ownership, operate like private
institutions. Excluding the Banco de Mexico,(central bank) financial insti-
tutions may also be classified as commercial banks, hipotecarias (mortgage
banks) or financieras (investment banks).
2.        Public Institutions.  Government commercial banks serve special types
of borrowers (agriculture, film-making, foreign trade, etc.). In 1973 they
accounted for about 10% of commercial bank credit but only 2.3% of commercial
bank liabilities. The largest public financial institutions, Nacional Finan-
ciera S.A. (NAFTN) and Nacional Azucarera are financieras, whose liabilities
are issued to the public and whose lending goes principally, although not ex-
clusively, to the Government or to public enterprises. In 1973, they extended
43.2% of all financiera credit and received 17.7% of financiera deposits. The
only important government hipotecaria is the Banco Nacional de Obras, which
issues its liabilities to the public much like other hipotecarias, but channels
all credit to the Government. In 1973, it accounted for 59.6% of hipotecaria
credit and 25.0% of hipotecarias deposits. The Government has also set up a
number of specialized institutions (trust funds) to finance prioritary sectors
of the economy (para. 5).
3.        Private and Mixed Institutions.  Private and mixed financial ins-
titutions have similar operations, allowing therefore a joint discussion.
About 190 private and mixed financial institutions operated in 1974 in Mexico.
The bulk of both credits and deposits are accounted for by 11 large financial
groups of which 9 are private and 2 have mixed ownership. The Government has
encouraged the formation of these groups by consolidating small banks into
groups to: improve the stability of the financial system, simplify the ap-
plication of the reserve requirements system, and concentrate financial manage-
ment into fewer hands. The groups are becoming "multi-banks", offering a wide
range of financial services. The typical group is composed of one or more
commercial banks with branches all over the country), a financiera and an
hipotecaria.1/ Financieras and hipotecarias can only have a limited number of
branches; they have, therefore, a s-trong incentive to associate with commercial
banks to increase their nation coverage. The 11 financial groups dominate com-
mercial banking almost completely, having 92.4% of the deposits (Table 1) and
granting 8h.2% of loans (Table 2). Their importance is slightly less among
financieras where they have 65.5% of the deposits and grant 45% of the credit.
Finally, their hipotecarias have 71.8% of the deposits and grant 28.7% of the
credits.
J The larger groups may also have an insurance company, a mutual fund, and. a
warehousing companr which, for purposes of this discussion, are not classified
as "financial institutions."



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Is.      Reserve Requirements System.  The reserves of the Mexican financial
institutions have been used to channel credit to prioritary activities (agri-
culture, housing, exports). In 1974-75 the authorities have also used the
reserve requirements to control the money supply, as witnessed by reserve
requirements of up to 80% on certain liabilities. The monetary authorities
have gradually shifted the reserve requirements system from forced investment
(under which each financial intermediary was required tc have parts of its loan
portfolio in specific purpose loans), to a system which increasingly uses
special purpose trust funds to direct credit. The latter system has the
advantage of increased intermediation and better overall allocation of
resources.
5.       In the context of the reserve requirements system, the Government
has set up a number of trust funds, five of which specialize in industrial
financing. Three of these are administered by NAFIN, the other two by Banco
de Mexico. The funds administered by NAFIN are:
A.  Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), established in
1972, makes equity investments in small and medium scale industrial
firms. Its investments, expected to be temporary, must be less
than a third of a firmts equity. In 1973, FONIN invested Mex$227
million (US$18 million) in 114 firms. FONIN's role, however, is
limited--especially regarding medium scale firms--since these
firms are not facing a critical shortage of equity.
B.  Fondo de Garantia   Fomento a la Industrial Mediana y Pequefna
(FOGAIN), a second-tier institution was created in 1954 to finance
at concessionary rates (9-11% p.a.j,through intermediaries,fixed
assets and working capital of industrial firms with capital ranging
from Mex$25,000 to Mex$25 million, about two-thirds of industrial
firms. Although a recipient cf IDB loans, FOGAIN's financing has
been limited, amounting to only Mex$944 million (US$76 million) in
1974, only 1.7% of industrial credit. Lack of adequate promotion
has held down demand for FOGAIN's loans. Furthermore, FOGAIN has
hardly exercised its guarantee authority, a potentially important
component of small business loans. The terms of FCxAIN's financing
have been short, averaging only about four years.
C. Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion (FONEP), created in
1967, directly finances preinvestment studies both for the public
and private sectors, FONEP's financing is on concessionary terms.
Loans carry a 7% p.a. interest rate and have a term of three to
eight years, with up to two years' grace period.  The Mexican
Government's funding of FONEP has been complemented by two IDB
loans amounting to US$15.5 million eqilivalent. Up to end-1973,
FONEP had approved 113 operations for Mex$176.2 million (US$14
million).
6.       BANXICO administers the two other funds oriented towards industry:
A.  Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de los Productos
Manufacturados (FOMEX), funded by taxes on imports, rediscounts
pre- and post-commercial bank export credit at concessionary rates,
6-8% p.a. to the final borrower with a 3% spread to the intermediary.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
FOMEX can also f-nance production of domestically produced capital
goods when these are substituting imports. FOMEX's portfolio has
grown fairly rapidly, more than doubling in volume since 1970,
reaching Mex$2.4 billion(US$192 million), 4.3% of manufacturing
credit in 197h.2/
The other fund is:
B.  Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), described in Section
IV of the appraisal.
7.       Security aEchanges. Mexico's three security exchanges are located
in Monterrey, Guadalajara, and the largest in Mexico City. The security ex-
changes are regulated by the Comision Nacional de Valores which must approve
each issue publicly offered in Mexico. Issues of bonds and shares of finan-
cial intermediaries must also have the prior approval of the Comision Na-
cional Bancaria y de Seguros.
8.       Transactions on the security exchanges have increased rapidly from
Mex$22 billion in 1965 to over Mex$134 billion (US$10.7 billion) in 1974,
an average growth rate of 22.2% p.a.  Only Mex$3.2 billion, about 5% of the
value of the transactions, were in stocks (Table 3). In 1965-74 stock trans-
actions increased from Mex$1.5 billion to Mex$3.2 billion, a lower 9.2% p.a.
growth rate. Stocks of industrial firms, however, increased their partici-
pation in total stocks transacted from 44% in 1971 to about 48% in 1974.
9.       Industrial firms by and large do not utilize theexchanges to raise
equity. For example, of the 44 new issues in 1974, only 13 were common stock,
and the rest were fixed return securities. Firms do not go public because the
owners wish to retain their full control, minimize outside interference and
avoid the information disclosures required for publicly traded stocks. In-
vestors, on the other hand, find stock yields composed of dividend rates
(historically about 8 to 12% before taxes) plus capital gains (average of
2 to 3% p.a. and not subject to taxes), less attractive than those of fixed
return securities which have lower risks and par redemption on demand.
10.      Two features of the tax and financial laws have hampered the devel-
opment of an active stock market. First, financieras are allowed to invest
up to 25% of their total liabilities in stock. Effectively, the financieras
may convert their deposits into equity. This reduces the need of firms to
sell stock to the public. Second, the tax laws make debt financing much
cheeper than equity financing. Dividend are paid out of corporate earnings
which are taxed on a sliding scale which may go up to 42% and taxed again at
20% to the recipient. Interest payments, on the other hand, are tax deductible
to the firm and are taxed at a maximum rate of 21% to the recipient. Thus,
dividend payments to persons in the 50% marginal tax bracket bear taxes about
two and one half times as great as interest payments to the same group.2/
11.      In addition to the tax and financial laws, the existence of inter-
locking financial-industrial groups also reduces the need of firms to raise
capital by equity subscriptions. Financial institutions lend to non-financial
j FOMEX's Anrual Report.
/ ((0.42 + 0.20 (1 - 0.50)) 0.21) = 2.48



ANNEX 10
Page 4
enterprises within the group even though the latter have relatively high
debt/equity ratios. In doing so, financial institutions take part of the
risk-bearing role that shareholders normally play.
Financial Intermediationl/ in Mexico
12.      Mexico has a fairly advanced financial system among developing
countries. Relatively low rates of inflation and high returns paid on the
liability instruments of the financial system (Tables 4 and 5), together with
the unchanged parity between the US dollar and the Mexican peso, have encouraged
the public to hold large peso-denominated claims on the financial system, permit-
ting substantial intermediation of private investment.-a/
13.      A crude measure of the stage of development of Mexico's financial
system is the ratio of quasi-money stock to 5NP compared to that of selected
countries, as shown in the following table:9
Quasi-Money Stock as Percent of GNP
Japan            (1972)         95
United States   (1972)          91
Germany          (1972)         62
Taiwan           (1972)         38
Mexico           (1972)         36
Korea           (1970)          31
Mexico           (1965)         26
Brazil           (1972)         14
Argentina        (1972)         10
Colombia         (1969)          7
Bolivia          (1972)          4
The table indicates that although Mexican financial development far exceeds
that of Brazil, Argentina, Colombia or Bolivia, it has considerable room for
expansion, as indicated by the higher ratios in Germany, the United States
and Japan.
14.      Limits placed on the rates which intermediaries can pay on liabilities
or charge on loans, as well as any uncertainty about the real return of the
liabilities may decrease intermediation. Whereas ceilings on lending rates
in Mexico are effectively circumvented, ceilings on liabilities are effective.
/ Intermediation increases the average return on investment throughout the
economy by channeling investment funds from surplus units with low-yielding
projects (savers) to deficit units with high yielding projects (investors).
g In 1972 about 4.2% of GDP was added to quasi-jioney stocks and credit to the
private sector was about 3.3% of GDP. Since private investment that year
was about 12.3% of GDP, 27% of private investment was intermediated by the
banking system.
/ This ratio is an incomplete measure of financial development as it fails to
include intermediation through the stock markets. This failure gives a
misleadingly low rank to countries such as the United States and Brazil
where the stock market is important.



ANINEX 10
Page 5
Liability ceilings can be particularly dangerous in a financially open
economy like that of Mexico where the option of foreign deposits is always
available. This was demonstrated in 1973 when the traditional interest
rate differential between Mexican and foreign rates on deposits .was allowed
to decrease (Table 6).  Consequently, the portion of GDP going into quasi-
money fell in one year from 4.2% of GDP in 1972 to 2.5% in 1973.
15.      The Mexican financial system intermediates  successfully between short-
term deposits and longer-term assets, although less than half of credit out-
standing has a term of more than one year and the proportion has decreased
since 1972 (Table 7). A striking feature of the system is the liquidity of
its liabilities. The financial bond (bono financiero) and the mortgage bond
(bono hipotecario), although ostensibly 10-year obligations, are in practice
redeemable on sight by the financieras and hipotecarias.  Only the cer-tifi-
cat;es of deposit (certificado de deposito) and the promissory note (pagare)
are less than completely liquid being issued for 3, 6 and 12 months and 1
and 2 years respectively. The system offer no premium for holding truly long-
term bonds. However, since 1968 the share of liabilities held as sight deposits
has decreased (Table 8).
16.      The Mexican financial system tends to allocate credit more according
to guarantees than according to the appraised profitability of the investment
being financed. This tendency reduces the systemls intermediation as a
proportion of total investment. Firms which can meet the intermediaries'
guarantee requirements or which belong to the same financial-industrial group
(para. 11) have access to credit regardless of the profitability of the project
being considered. Since the ability of a firm to provide guarantees is related
to its size and its past profitability, this characteristic constraints the
amount of funds which the system can transfer to profitable projects. As a
consequence, it is not surprising to find that small and medium Mexican firms
have much lower debt/equity ratios (0.3:1) than comparable firms in the United
States  (1:1)   (Annex 13) and lower than large Mexican firms (2.7:1 to 5-1:1).
17 .      If the Mexican banking system can be encouraged to start lending on
the basis of project appraisal, an objective of the proposed loan, rather than
on the basis of guarantees, the efficiency of the entire industrial sector can
be improved.



ANNEX 1.0
Table 1
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Liabilities to Public of Major Financialj GroupS  as of December  1973
(in Mex$ millions)
GrouP             Banks       %    Financieras  %    Hipotecarias   %    Total        %
Banamex             21,941.4    30.8   20,550o1   19.3       1,309.4    4.0  43,800.9  20.8
Bancomer            18,161.2    25.5   19,056.5   17.8       6,193.1   19.0  43,410.8  20.6
Serfin               7,106.3    10.0    9.671.8    9.1         689.2    2.1  17,462.3   8.3
Comermex             4,470.3     6.3    5,845.1    5.5         722.7    2.2  11,038.1   5.2
Somex-Banco Mexicalo 4,486.8      6.3    59369,5    5.0          -        -    9,856.3   4.7
Internacional  /    3,882.7    5s4    1,982.8    1.9           846.7    2.6   6,712.2   3.2
Cremi                  395.4     0.6    1,506.7    1.4       4,057.4   12.4   5,959.5   2.8
Banco del Atlantico 1,503.9      2.1    2,245.9    2.1       1,275.7    3.9   5.025.5   2.4
Banpais                964.5     1.4    2.402.4    2.2         283.4    0.9   3,650.3   1.7
Mercantil            1,459.1     2.0    1,091.1    1.0           -        -    2,550.2   1.2
Uontia               1,562.5     2.2       660.1    o.6        151.2    0.4   2,373.8   1.1
11 Groups    65,934.1    92.4   69,782.0   65.5    15,528.8   47.5 151,244.9  71.8
Others               3,746.6     5.3   17,912.1   16.8       8,980.3   27.5  30,639.0  14.6
Total Private and  69,680.7    97.7   87,694.1   82.3    24,509.1   75.0 181,883.9  86.4
Mixed
?ublic 3/            1,612.      2.3   18,903.0   17.7       8,161.0   25.0  28,676.6 _1.6
Total         71,193.3   100.0  106,592.1  100.0    32,670.1  100.0 210,560.5 100.0
1/ Excluding interbank deposits, capital, and reserves.
2/  -iovernment participation in ownership (mixed).
3/ Does not include Banco de IMxico.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 2
Maco
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMNT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Credit Outstanding of Major Financial Groups as of December 1973 /
(in Mx$ millions)
Group              Banks      <    Financieras   %   Hipotecarias   %        Total      %
Banamex             9,917.0      26.1    13,390.8   13.1       901.8    2.2   24,209.6  13.4
Bancomer            9,898.7      26.1    11,920.3   11.7    4,631.2   18.7   26,450.2  14.6
Serfin              3,226.7       8.5     5,381.7    5.3       530.3    1.3    9,138.7   5.0
Comermex            1,869.5       4.9     4,291.6    4.2       464.1    1.1    6,525.2   3.7
Somex-Banco         2,158.9       5.7     4,617.0    4.5        --        --    6,775.9   3.7
Mexicano
Internacional 2/   1,915.7        5.0     1,192.9    1.2       662.7    1.6    3,721.3   2.1
Cremi                 141.4       0.4       752.6    0.7    3,029.7    7.4    3,923.7   2.2
Banco del Atlantico  873.0        2.3     1,708.9    1.7    1,250.6    3.1    3,832.5   2.1
Banpais               470.8       1.2     1,577.7    1.5       162.8    0.4    2,211.3   1.2
Mbrcantil             720.0       1.9       817.2    0.8         --       --    1,537.2   0.9
Confia                777.9       2.0       369.0    0.4       121.4    0.3    1,268.3   0.7
11 Groups    31,969.6      84.2    46,019.7   45.0   11,754.6   28.7   89,743.9  49.6
Others              2,209.8       5.8    12,116.5   11.8    47771.8   11.7   19,098.1  10.5
Total Private and 34,179.4       90.0    58,136.2   56.8   16,526.4   40.4  108,842.0  60.1
Mixed
Public 3/           3,808.9      10.0    44,173.1   43.2   24,371.4   59.6   72,353.4  39.9
Total        37,988.3    100.0   102,309.3  100.0   40,897.8  100.0  181,195.4 100.0
1/ Sxcluding interbank loans.
2/ Government participation in ownership (mixed).
3/ Does not include Banco de M6xico.
SOURCE: Anuario Plnanciero
LCP.DF
November, 1975



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENI FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Transactions in the Security Exchanges
(millions of Mex$)
Bolsa de 1exico              Bolsa de NlonUerrey            Bolsa de Guadalajara                   Total
Fixed Return       Shares      Fixed Return       Shares      Fixed Return       Sharea      Fixed Retuum        Shares
1965      19,990.7         1,424.4           776.0            20.2          1h2.9            22.9       20,809.6         1,h67.5
1966      21,651.3         1,4il.4        1,342.9             41.4           54.2            18.6       23,048d          1,471.
1967      21,219.4         1,331.8        1,441.]             77.6          172.8            32.0       22,833.3         1,4h1.4
1968      26,381.9         1,590.9        2,323.5             84.9          561.2            57.6       29,266.6         1,733.4
1969      33,938.8         1,297.4        3,089.8            102.6       1,265.0             51.7       38,293.6         1,451.7
1970      33,030.3            722.2       3,609.1             83.9        1,931.2            26.6       38,570.6            832.7
1971      38,034.2            830.5       5,555.4             44.5        3,544.6            25.2       47,134.2            900.2 '
1972      53,960.0         1,660.8        8,298.7            161.6        4,373.6            25.0       67,262.3          1,847.4 /
1973      72,894.9         2,t494.3      14,058.6            285.1       10,964.6            23.5       97,918.1          2,802.9 J
1974      96,804.6         2,538.4       25,396.1            619.2      11,556.0             77.0      130,756.7         3,234.6
_1/ Bonos Financieros, Bonor Hipotecarics, Uedulas Hipotecarios, Financial Certificater, etc.
2/ Sectorial distribution of shares transacted in 1971-73:
Sector         1971         %         1972         %              1973           _          1974Ig
Industry      399.8        44.4      942.2        51.4          1,614.5          57.6     1,545.5    47 8
Services      314.3        34.9      381.1        20.6            438.3          15.6        541.1    1 .7
Banking         91.5       10.2      216.4        11.7            303.7          10.8        494.2    15.3
Commerce        49.6       15.5       91.7         5.0            126.2           4.5        165.6     5.1
Other           45.0        5.0      209.0        11.3            320.2          11.5       488.2    15.1
TOTAL      900.2       lO.e  1,847.4         100.0          2,802.9         100.0    3.2314.6   100.o
SOURCE:  Comisi6n Nacional de Valores.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 10
M13UCO                                             .bet
TT~
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQtIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Interest Rates on Financiera Liabilitiesl/
(October 1975)
Net Interest
Minimum           Gross            Withholding          Net   4       Sobre      Adjusted afte r
Instrument            Term        Investment        Interest          Tax Rate./       Interest-        Tasa2/    Sobre Tasa6/
2/                                         12.00             7.92          1.15             9.11
Bono Financiero        Sight-    Mex$        100       9.00                                          -- -
16.00            7.56          1.19             8.75
12.00            7.92          1.911            9.86,
Mex$  100,000        9.00
16.00            7.56          1.94             9.10
3 mo.
12.00            7.92          3.44            11.36
Mex$1,000,000        9.00
Certificado de                                                          16.00             7.65          3.44           11.00
Depositc
12.00            7.92          2.44            10.36
Mex$  100,000        9.00
16.00            7.56          2.44            10.00
6 ao.
12.00            7.92          3.94            11.86
Mex$1, 000, 000      9.00     - 
16.00            7.56          3.94            11.50
15.00            8.075          2.995          11.07
Mex$  100,000        9.50      -
21.00            7.505         2.995           11.50
Fagare                 1 and2 _2
years
12.00            8.925          3.705          12.63
Mex$1,000,000       10.50    --       -
21.00            8.300         3.705           12.00
3 no.     US$   2,000          8.50                               8.50
Certificado de      --        --      ----                                     -
Deposito 7/          6 no.     US$   2,000          9.00                               9.00
(OS iollar
denominated)        1 and 2   uS$  10,000           9.50                               9.50
years
1/ rates on Hipotecaria obligations are similar.  Banks also issue Certificados de Deposito.
T/ Legally a 10-year obligation which in practice is redeemable on sight.
3  The lower tax rate is for corporations and natural persons who allow the intermediar;
to report theirinterest earnings te the Finance Ministry. The higher rate is for all other persons.
Net of withholding tax = Gross Interest x (1 - withholding tax rate).
/ The "Sobre Tasa" is  an additional interest rate that Banco de Mexico allows intermediaries to pay.  It is
not taxable and is paid only to natural persons.
/ Net interest plus sobre tasa.
7/ Available only to non-residents and residents of border areas.
LCPDF
November, 1975



A.IDX  10
Table 5
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Interest Rates on Bankirg Srstem Instruments
Bono     2/    Bo-no   3                Certificado
Year     Quarter    Hipotecario -          Financiero  __are    de Deposito
1969                    8.oo            8.75         9.00
II           8.oo            8.75         9.00
III          8.oo            9.00        11.00
IV           8.oO            9.00        11.00
1970       T            8.00            9.00        11.00
II           8.oo            9.00        11.00
III          8.00            9.00        11.00
IV           8.00            9.00        11.00
1971       I            8.00            8.82        10.33
UT           8.00            8.73        10.00
III          8.00            8.73        10.00
IV           8.00            8.73        10.00
1972       I            7.52            7.92         9.01
TI           7.52            7.92         9.01
III          7.5            7.92         9.01
IV           7.52            7.92         9.01
1973       I            7.20            7.56         8.37
D:           7.34            7.72         8.66
TTI          8.25            8.75        10.50
Iv           8.25            8.75        1o.5o
1974       T            8.25            8.75        10.58         10.50
II           8.25            8.75        11.87         11.37
III          8.25            8.75        12.00          1.$50
IV           8.25            8.75        12.00         11.50
1975       I            8.25            8.75        12.00          11.50
II           8.25            8.75        12.00          11.50
III          8.25            8.75        12.00          11.50
2/ Net of tax, including "sobre tasa. 1
2/ Mortgage bond.
3/ Financial bond.
1j/ Promiayory note, over Mex$1,000,000.
/ Certificate of Deposit, over Mex$l,000,000. This instrument was created
in 1974.
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 6
MEXCO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FOND (FONEI) PROJECT
Interest Rate Differentials
Bono Financiero (1969-73)
or Certificado de Dep6sitol/ Pagare3/minus
Year        Quarter            (1974-on) minus USCD2J    Eurodollar Deposits-
1969         I                          2.98                      -.94
II                        2.98                       .4o
III                       3.25                      -.35
IV                        3.25                      1.10
1970         I                          2.69                      1.04
II                        2.09                      2.13
III                       1.48                      2.39
IV                        3.03                      3.58
1971         I                          4.82                      3.91
II                        3.99                      2.72
III                       3.27                      2.29
IV                        3.98                      3.69
1972         I                          4.28                      3.0
II                        3.66                      7.96
III                       3.25                      2.74
IV                        2.89                      2.62
1973         I                          1.55                      0.90
II                        0.43                      0.70
III                      -1.89                      0.15
IV                       -0.99                      1.25
1974         I                          1.33                      2.03
II                        0.12                      2.26
III                      -0.62                     -0.35
IV                        2.17                      1.98
1975         I                          4.47                      4.12
II                        5.20                      3.99
III                      4h40                       3.h8
j 1969-73:  Financial bond; 1974 and 1975, 3-month certificate of deposit
Mex$1,000,000 and over.
2/ Certificates of deposit in US banks, US$100,000 and over.
j One-year promissory notes, Mex$1,000,000 and over.
4/ Large, one-year deposits.
LCPDF
November, 1975



AINEX 10
Table Y
M E X I C 0
$EOCID INDUTRJIAL EQUIJ:E.VT FUuJqD (FONEI) PI0OJECT
Terms of Outstanding Credit V/
(Billions of M4ex,p and %)
1972              1973              1974          Average Annum
Mexe _            Ilex$             Ye   x            Growth Hate
(1972-197Th
Public Institutions      68.6      38.9    61.2    40.7    105.2   44.4              23.8
- more than one year    39.4       22.3    4o.7      20.L      52.lh   22.1          15.3
- one year and less      29.2      16.6    )40.5     20.3      52.8   21.3           34.5
Private and >Iixed
Institutions          107.7      61.1   118.1      59.3    132.0   55.6            10.7
- more than one year    43.6       24.7    50.6      25.5      56.7   23.9           14.0
- one -ear and less      64.1      36.4    67.3      33.5      75.3   31.7            B.)L
Total                   176.3    100.0   199.3    100.0    237.2  100.0              16.0
- more than one year    83.0       47.1    91.5      45.9    109.1   46.0            14.6
- cne year and less      93.3      52.9   109.8      5)4.1    128.1   54.0           17.2
1/     Not including inter-bank credit or credit from Banco de liexico.
LCPDZh
November, 1975



A :JL kX 10
MEXI CO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PRO.TECT
Etructure of Nbn-Tonetary Liabities of the rinancial tysten
(, of Iota!)
Bonos and Certilicados
1/      2/       Ainancie0os and Hipo -
Year and Quarter           Pagare and CD1         tecarios   /               CtYrer
1963                      22.9                      19.6                57. i
196h                      20.9                      22.2                56.9
1965                      -9.7                      27.3                53.0
-1966                     x6.9                      36.5                16.6
1967                       4.o                      13.6               1h2.
1968                      12.5                       47.5               40.o
1969                      46.Ls                     h3.6                38.0
1970                      23.6                      40.7                35.7
1971                      23.5                      39.7                36.8b
1972   I                  2L.1                      39.6                36.3
IT                 24.6                      39.6                35.8
III                 25.3                       39.1                35.7
IV                 25.9                      37.1                36.1
1973   I                  25.7                      38.8                35.6
II                 25.&                       37.6               36.)-!
III                 28.3                       40.2               3- .
IV                 26.2                       35.5                38.3
1974   I                  26.6                      36.6                36.8
II                 29.9                      33.c                 37.0
III                 32.0                       29.8                3&.2
IV                 32.7                       28.8                36.5
1975   I                  3h.8                      28.3                36.9
II                 35.7                      28.1-               36.2
1/ Promissory note.
/ Certificate of deposit.
J Financial bonds and certificates and mortgage bonds and certificates.
LCPDF
November, 1975



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) _PROjECT
Sectoral Distribution of CreditAL
(outstanding balances in billions of Mex$)
Rate of
1969              1970             1971            1972               1973              1974           Growth
Amount    %      Amount            A mut            Amount   %% Amoun_t__              Amount      %     1969/19 74
Agriculture and
Cattle Raising        15.3    13.5       17.7    13.6    21.3    13.8       23.5   13.5       26.2    13.6    33.9    14.6        17.2
Mining                 0.5      0.4       0.8     o.6      1.0     0.6       0.9    0.5        1.0      0.5     1.3     0.6       22.1
Other Primary          0.3      0.3       0.3     0.2      0.3     0.2       0.5    0.3        0.8      0.4     1.5      0.6      38.0
Manufacturing          30.0    26.5      33.3    25.6    38.5    25.0       40.0   23.1       42.6    22.1    55.5    23.9        13.1
Non-metallic
minerals             2.4      2.1       2.6     2.0      2.4     1.6       2.4    1.4        2.1      1.1     2.6     1.1         1.6
Metal and Metal
products             4.4      3.9       5.3     4.1      6.1     4.0       5.5    3.2        6.o      3.1     7.6      3.3      12.6
Machinery            1.6      1.4       2.2      1.7     3.0     1.9        2.7    1.6        3.1     1.6      4.0     1.7       20.1
Other manufact.     21.6      19.1      23.2   17.8    27.0    17.5        29.5   17.0      31.4    16.3    41.2    17.7        13.8
Construction          10.4      9.2      11.7     9.0    13.3      8.6      16.9    9.7       18.3      9.5    21.2      9.1       15.3
Services               4.5      4.0       5.5      4.2     7.0     4.5       6.7    3.9        7.6      3.9     9.6    14.1        16.4
Transport              4.8      4.2       5.4      4.2     6.3     4.1        6.7    3.1       8.0      4.2    10.8      4.1       17.6
Communications and
Entertainment           1.0     0.9       1.0      0.8     1.3     0.8        1.5    0.9       1.6      0.8     2.5      ].1       20.1
Low Cost Housing       2.8      2.5       3.7     2.8      4.4     2.9       4.8    2.8        5.8      3.0     6.3      2.7       17.6
Commerce              16.6      14.7     20.3    15.6    25.3    16.4        27.4   13.8      27.6    14.3    35.8    15.4         16.6
Other Activities       6.o      5.3       7.3     5.6      6.7     4.4        7.3    4.2       9.2      4.8     8.0      3.4        5.9
Petroleum              1.9      1.7       2.1      1.6     4.2     2.7        6.1    3.5        5.4     2.8     4.5      1.9       18.8
Electricity             7.5     6.6       7.8      5.1     9.6     6.2       11.8    6.8      12 4    6.4      11.9      5.1        9.7
Federal Gov.2/         9.4      8.3      10.4     6.4    11.3      7.3      114.4    8.3      20.5    10.6    23.1       9.9       19.7
State Gov.             2.2      1.9       2.7     1.5      3.5     2.3        5.1    2.9       5.3      2.8     6.3      2.7       23.4
Total                113.1              130.1            154.0              173.5            192.5            232.2                15.5
1/ Excludes bonds, Bank of Mexico and interbank credit; December of each year.
Federal Government and States.  Public enterprises are included in the sector of their principal activity.
Source: Indicadores Econ6micos, August, 1975.
LCPDF
October, 1975



SEAEUD ThWBU2I2L 8QUI1rN, FOlID 18040.) PROJECTr
1S11- and MedinS..eal Industry
C-m.lid.t.d Per-tss.   B"ae   etS FAnd Thee.  Ott.t.L.mt  bu D%dnatrial    et
Tudnent fal   Gro ps   31_ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
Ftna.ciai Statemets          Total    20         21       22       23       24       24B      25       26       27       28       29       30       31       3          4        5       3        3        6        3
BALANCE SHEET
lborrest seance         ~~~~~49.62   37.65   36.34   78.89   47.a54    36.2~9   65.31   48.83   6u,.o    42.; 90   40.87   54.33    53. 51   60.47   37,08    0  I 7.4    2407 5   6146   454                 50 9
Cash                          3.18    3.77,    4.01    1.57    3.09    2.94    2.68    3.06    3~01             2.96     3.37     2.80    3 36    3.34        2.60    2.30      2.00     2.,,6    2.89     2.73    5.25
Inventory            ~~~~~~~23.61   16.77   20.20   43.58   2439   23.05   33.35   28.05   29. 90   19.50   10.01   31.73   16.62   24.94   16.20   20.62   25.72   20.90   93.40    23.301   23.97
AcoeosRecivable              20.54   15.01   11.06   26.293   18.37   27.96   26.20   15.78   24.54   17.66   17.84   17.79   21.17   28.79    16.10   isa48   93.14   21.04   25.52   10.0Of   21.04
Other                         2. 29     2.12     2.47    5.43      1.66    2.34      2.88    1.94    2.76    2.76    1.65    2.09    2.34    3.40    2.16              1.77    2.32    2.15    2. 77    1.39        2 50
Fixed Assert            45.14   54,53    55.39    14.07 ~~~~_L449.01   41.32   20.66   44.10   3469   49.36   54.49   41.50   50.66   33.01_7   57.0            53.39   44.1    4.6        365       050    44.3
M.srhi-sy 4 Equipment        32.30   22.02   36.01    9.52   40.00   29.50   24.41   29.09   21,07   34.75   47.53   24.70   37.60    20.04   36,96   42.49   32.95   30.28   24 04   34.96   35.02
Bc.1!0,c_r                   10.35   16.97   12.51    2.94    0.13   10.13    5.01   11.29   11.13   72.36    5.47   15.00   10.72   12.14   16.66    9.32    0.45    7.73    7.98   10.79                          7.8n
orbor                          2.46    4.04      7.07    2.41    0.088    1.69    1.24    2.72    2.49    2.25    1.49    1.72    2.26    1.69    4,22    1.50                  1.70    2.07    1.41    2.c3    1.41
Defrrd Asset                   3.08    2.94    4.63    6.24    2.25    1.55    2.16            2.39    2.93    3.52    3.21    1.74    3.75    3.01    3.04            3.95    3.14    3.35    3.75        2. ~3    5 4,
Other Io-etse..t,              2.16    4.80      1.44       --    1.23    0.04       1.85     4.68    2.29    4.22        1,43    2.39    2.00       1.05    1.24      2.49    1.717    1.02    1.10    3 31    I 24
OTAL. A022627.                  100.00  100.00  100.00  100. 00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  1930.00  100.20  100.00  100.00  100.00  120.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  104 00  103.00  600.000  0o 00
Lighilitnl-                      25.83   24.63   28.48    16.15   24.,5 1   21.57   26.90   26.66   74.49   2.07   23.50    20.62   25.13   29.97   2 2.633   75.00   20.59    7.53   30.5    24 05   25.16
Shr  CresT.                  20.17   17.81   21.76        6.74   20.07   10.79   22.62   19.37   59.37    17.43   16.40   16.16   20.02   23.30   17.25   10.21   22. 77   22.06   24.26   19 10   20 74,
Long  eTtt                    4.30     5.20      5.74     6.41    4.64    2.19    3.17    3.37    4.09    4.57    5.74            3.51    3.40      4.57      3.03    6.57    4,30    4.25    2 72    4.42    4 34
Sh_reholder_   1.._o           1.30    1.54    0.90         --    1.80    0.59    1.19        1.92    1.03    1,07    1.36    0.95    9.05    1.90    1.25    1.02    1.52    1.27                1.12    0 (5      1.34
SEui.ty                          74 17   75-.37   71.52   03.05   73.49   7843   730    75.34   735.51   7693   76.42   79.30   7.05   70 03   77.6Z7                             7 0 1.4  7 2 47   63.42   727      I7I0
Share Capilal        ~~~~~56 .65   18.60   53.08   59.50   54.65   58.46   51.71   56.04   n3.44   59.79   57.69   63.97    57.57   52.51    60.93   59.59   54.53   57.21   54.61   40.76    6  36
tRearoe--s en Id Irfit       17 .52   16.69   192.44   24. 27   10.84   19.97   21.31   19.30   52.0 7   17.14   10.73   15.46   17.28    1 7 ,42   16.76   14.61   16.08   15.46   14. 1,2   II OD   Iv SI
Tota.l Celit.1 & I.eb3Sieta 100.00  100.00   100.00   105.03   L00.00  100.00  100 00  100.00  190. 00  000.00  100.00  100.00  tOO.00  100.30  100 00  103 00  000.00  100.06  700 O 00   'I0 (10701  00
INCOME STAyrEMt:
Seine                       L00.00  100.00  100.00  120.00  100.00  100.00  120.00  100.00  100.00  103.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.0  0 40.05   100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00   73o030  103 03
CnsS OF Goode Sold           68.89   75.69  64Q14   63.93   75. 37   75.19   69.81   60.11   64.73   73 76   63.95   74.94   66.66   63.07   t6.52   70.68   67.77   63.9c   47.38   64.39   65 37
SeligsdAroistre-
sloe Fooe                  20.84   16,06   31.92   15.25   15.35   15.27   19.38   20.67   33.43    16.25   23.69   14.79   23.30   27.26   21.46   20.65   21.62   03.02   22.90   21.71   23.68
Othe                          8.2 1    0.21    0. 27        ..    0.20    0.10    8.28    0.23    0.09    0.21    0.49    0.26    0.09    0.12    0.19    0.09    0.24    0.57    0.34    3.19    0 13
_JbIJ191~_t    -        10 86 .7.94    7.67   20 8L.   9.08    9.44   10.33   10 .99   11.73    7.78_ 11.87    9.96   10.13    9.55   108                         .6 1.7 0.5                93       371   10 82
lIe; 0tctot/2rtnt~~~  .1)  23.4    11.1  12.2    4.,.3    12.1,   12.0    11lt..  1,.6    2.5.5    10.1    i5.5    12.5    13.5    53.6    15.2   11.0             16.5    26.1    13.5    10.1    1b5.
P5o."d(daye)               57       35       33       97       55        57       68       1,2     55       1,6       56       LI-.     65       76       57      12        62       66       7'       0.,      (5
labor., (days)             95       57       2       261,      90       (2      125       111     112       72       67      104       7,6      107       06      79       117      302      122       2.2     1-~
Lro,v-trrm Dr6L5 lO.tLy   6.1          0.        0.1              0. 2.1    -        2.1      0.]      0.1      0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      2.1      0.1    0.1         2.        .        .        .        .
Oc,tal De4t/S;o1ty            0.5      0.3       lii)     0.2      0.14      03      0.4      2.5      5.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      2.       23      0.3        2.5      2...     0,5      73       C7.
SOIRCO,  00040N
LI 0.   Food1 proOmlg                  25.   loather prodocts                                     31.   Ch-trinle and products                                                              38.   7'nrpr  ropc--
207.. --nrr-o                        26.   Fn-inntot  fiotnans                                  33.   dlor.tll1          .Itrcl. products (smopt petr-leo   010 coalI d-nl.tic.Se)         39.     rn)ort
~22    Tohco                         27.   Fape  and paper prndots                              35.   B.-o  arslo
7.3:   Zetil-                        21.   Pri.r.tig and pblihi.slg                             35.   MeItal Febnln-ting
25.   Pcotesor                       29.   Iather nod products                                  36.   lIajd..rey(nnertla)
.cB.  ep~l                           32.   Otbbho  pronucto                                     37.   la.cSt~i-o  machiney  sd opplianone



ANNEX 13
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTMIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Comparison of Percentual Consolidated Balance Sheets
for Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
Mexico, Colombia, and United States
(1970)
1                 ~~~~~United  /
Mexico        Colombia          States
ASSETS                               100.0            100.0           1OO.
Current Assets                      49.6             60.0           64.1
Cash                             3.2             3.0            10.4
Inventories                     23.6            28.0            21.2
Receivables                     2u.5             29.0           28.4
Other                            2.3             -               4.1
Fixed Assets                        45.1             28.0           30.2
Other Assets                         5.3             12.0            5.7
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY               100.0            100.0           100.0
Liabilities                         25.8             46.o           51.2
Short-term                      20.1             30.0           34.8
Long-term                        5.7             16.0           16.4
Equity                              71,.2            54.0           48.8
Share capital                   56.7             37.0           19.1
Reserves                        17.5             17.0           29.7
Term debt/equity               0.1:1            0.3:1           0.3:1
Total debt/equity               0.3:1           0.9:1           1.0:1
/ Small- and Medium-Scale Industry.
/  Includes large Colombian corporations.
/ Firms with total assets not exceeding US$1 million.
SOURCE:  MEXICO:  FOGAIN.  C8lombia: Superintendencia de Sociedades and Camilo
Pieschacon "La Politica Econ6mica y el Mercado Bursatil".
US: Federal Trade Commission and Security Exchange Commission
"Quarterly Financial Report for Manufacturing Corporations, 1970".
LCPDF
November, 1975



ANNEX 14
MEXICO
SECON1D INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Average Cost of Debt Funds to the Financieras
Year and Month             Average
1971
March                   10.53
June                    10.41
September               10.30
December                10.19
1972
March                   10.03
June                     9.97
September                9.91
December                 9.90
1973
March                    9.87
June                     9.87
September               10.41
December                10.65
19714
March                   10.Ob
June                    11.35
Sentember               11.57
December                11.6b
I1 97~
January                 11.72
February                11.78
Narch                   11.b6
April                   11.bb
Yiay                    11.92
June                    11.b9
July                    11.92
August                  11.91
SepteTber               11.91
October                 11.94
November                11.92
Lecember                11.97
SOIJiCE: Banco de Yiexico
Decemiber 1975



ANNEX 15
Page 1
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
.1.    The objectives of the Industrial Equipment Fund (a trust fund of Banco de
Mexico) shall be to (a) grant credits through financial intermediaries to promote
the production of industrial goods and services which generate foreign exchange
by supplying the export markets or save foreign exchange by the efficient subs-
titution of imports with reasonable export prospects, and (b) encourage the fi-
nancial intermediaries to appraise the projects applying for FONEI's financing.
2.     The Trustee may use the Fund to carry out the following operations:
a) Discount loans granted by credit institutions for the purchase of
fixed assets, the installation of industrial equipment and facil-
ities, the construction of building and the preparations of feasi-
bility or preinvestment studies of projects, which, may lead to the
earning or saving of foreign exchange;
b)  Other financial transactions in connection with those mentioned in
(a) above.
3.          The financing operations mentioned in 2(a) and 2(b) above shall re-
lateto the following:
a) The equipment of new industrial plant whose products have reasonably
prospects of being exported;
b) The expansion or modernization of existing industrial plant whose
present or projected production meets the requirement set forth in
(a) above;
c) The equipment, expansion or modernization of industrial plants whose
products are efficient import substitutes, and that also offer
prospects for being exported;
d) The equipment of projects that render services which lead to foreign
exchange earnings or savings.
4.      For the Trustee to finance industrial projects with the aim of import
substituting, the following requirements must be met:
a) The products manufactured by the borrowing enterprise shall be
quality and price competitive with similar products manufactured
abroad. For that purpose, said enterprises must be in a position
to sell their products at prices that do not exceed 125% of the
c.i.f. price of the similar imported products;
b) The products manufactured as a result of the project shall not be
luxury goods.



ANNEX 15
Page -2
5.      The Trustee may grant loans for the execution of feasibility or preinvest-
ment studies when these refer to projects eligible for Fund assistance.   Such
loans shall be granted on terms approved in each case by the Trustee. Should
the feasibility or preinvestment study result in the execution of the corres-
ponding project, the loan for the study shall be consolidated with the loan
granted by the Trustee for the execution of the project.  Should the study find
that execution of the project is not advisable, the Trustee, depending on the
nature and size of the project and the borrower's characteristics, may decide
to absorb part of the cost of the financing it has granted for execution of the
study.
6.      The financing granted by the Trustee to credit institutions shall be
subject to the following basic requirements:
a) It may be granted only to credit institutions established in accordance
with Mexican law;
b) The credit institution acting as financial intermediary shall ensure
that the borrowing enterprise counts with sufficient resources for its
working capital needs;
c) In cases of loans exceeding Mex$30 million, the financial intermediary
shall be in charge of the economical, financial, and technical aspects
of the project evaluation;
d) The credit institution acting as financial intermediary shall undertake
to service the FONEI loan punctually and in full, regardless of whether
or not it has received the payments from its borrower. It shall pay
immediately to FONEI any sums received from the borrower as advance
repayment of principal.
7.      In the selection of projects to be financed by FONEI, the following ge-
neral interest aspects, among others, shall be considered:
1.  Foreign Exchange Generation and/or Savings;
2.  The Economic and Financial Rates of Return;
3.  Value Added;
4.  Utilization of Labor;
5.  Industrial Decentralization and Regional Development.
8.      The Fund's operations shall be denominated in domestic currency.
9.      The minimum of each of the financings authorized by the Trustee shall be
Mex$3.5 million and the maximum Mex$37.5 million. The lower limit shall not
apply to the financing of feasibility studies.
10.     Within the limits prescribed above,the Trustee may finance up to 65% of
the fixed assets cost of new projects or 72% in the case of expansion of moderni-
zation projects. The financial intermediary shall participate, with its own
resourses, with at least 11% of FONEI's participation. The final borrower shall
finance at least 25% of the fixed assets costs of new projects or 20% in the case
of expansion or modernization projects.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
11.     The terms and other conditions of the Trusteets financing will depend
on the characteristics of the proposed investment. The financial intermediary's
participation shall be on the same term as FONEI's financing. Loans may be
granted for a maximum of a thirteen-years period which may include up to
three-years of grace.
12.     The interest rate to be charged to the final borrower shall be determined
by the Trustee as 1.5% point over the average cost of debt funds to the Finan-
cieras, as calculated monthly by Banco de Mexico. The interest rate to the final
borrower will be adjusted, whenever necessary, to fully reflect changes of at
least 0.25% points of the said average.
13.     The final borrower may choose between the following interest rates re-
gimes:
a) A flat interest rate throughout the life of the loan determined as
the interest rate prevailing at the time the loan is made; or
b) A variable interest rate which would change every semester, if ne-
cessary, to reflect the changes described under Regulation 12 above.
14.     Under the two interest rates regimesdescribed above, the Trustee will, at
all times, charge the financial intermediaries an interest rate of 2% (two per-
centage points) less than the one charged to the final borrower.
15.     The resources of the Fund may not be used for projects that have alter-
native sources of financing.
16.     The agreements signed by the Trustee with the financial intermediaries,
and those signed by the latter with the final borrowers shall specify that the
Trustee is entitled at all times to obtain any information it may consider ne-
cessary concerning execution of the projects, to inspect and supervise the
execution and operation thereof, and to require the final borrower to submit
financial statements certified by external auditors acceptable to the Trustee,
17.     The Technical Committee shall approve each and every one of the finan-
cing operations carried out by the Fund pursuant to these regulations.



ANNEX 16
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI:  Board (Technical Committee)
President: Lic. Hector Hernandez C.
DIRECTORS                                     ALTERNATES
Lic. Hector Hernandez C.                   Lic. Augustin Lopez Munguia
General Director of Economic Studies       General Director of Economic Studies
(Secretariat of Finance)                   (Secretariat of Finance)
Lic. Victor Navarrete                      Lic. Leon Alazraki
General Director of  Public Credit         Deputy Director of  Credit
(Secretariat of Finance)                   (Secretariat of Finance)
Lic. Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado             Lic. Miguel Mancera A.
Director General                           Deputy Director General
Banco de Mexico, S.A.                      Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Lic. Juan Guillermo Becker A.              Lic. Gabriel Zorrilla M.
Undersecretary of Industry & Commerce    Director of Industries
(Secretariat of Industry and Commerce)
Ing. Ignacio Deschamps A.                  Lic. Alfredo Phillips
President IMIT                             Deputy Director
(representing Banco de Mexico, S.A.)       Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Lic. Gustavo Romero K.                     Lic. Pedro Galicia E.
Director General NAFIN                     Manager (International Department) NAFIN
Lic. Jorge Sanchez M.                      Mr. Mario Mendiola M.
President CONCAMIN                         CONCAMIN member
Lic. Ernesto Barroso G.                    Mr. Gustavo de la Serna V.
President CANACINTRA 2/                    CANACINTRA member
Lic. Julio Faesler C.                      Lic. Jorge Canavati.
President IMCE 3/                          TMCE member
Coordinator of Banco de Mexico's Funds: Lic. Gustavo Petricioli
1/ Confederacion de Camaras Industriales de Mexico.
2/ Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion.
3/ Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior.
LCPDF
October 1975



ANNEX 17
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQIJIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
(TECHNICAL
COMMATTEE)
CONSULTANTS  ?                   LAJO                       AUDITORS
ADMI NISTRATOR
MR. AMOR
TECHNI OCT OBER A9.
DEPARTMENT                                                        RATONW L  S  D EPARTMEN
(VACANT)INLS                                                                         MR. ACEVEDO
ECONOMICS
ANLST      _RESEARCH                                  SUPERVISOR                  ACUTN 
.  ASSISTANT.
ASISAN                         RESEARC                      ASS1;ISTANT                  ASSISTANT               ADMINSTRAT
ANALYST       l          |    ASSISTANT                    SUPERVISOR                  ACCOUNTANT   r|ACCOUNTANT
PROJECT FLOWV    *                                                                      ASSISTANT     _
CONTROL    _.ACCOUNTANT                                                                             _
LCPDF, OCTOBER 1975
World Bank -15294



ANNEX 18
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Characteristics of Loan Approvals / from Inception to September 30, 1975
(in Mex$ millions)
No.            Mex$             %
I. BY SIZE
Up to Mex$ 5,000,000                     1              5.0             0.6
Mex$ 5,000,001 to 10,000,000                     12             97.7            11.9
Mex$10,000,001 to 15,000,000                      6             71.2             8.7
Mex$15,000,001 to 20,000,000                      3             58.0             7.1
Mex$20,000,001 to 25,000,000                      1             22.0             2.7
Mex$25,000,001 and above                         16            566.3            69.0
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
II. BY PURPOSE
New Enterprise                                    6            131.7            16.1
Expansion                                        33            688.5            83.9
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
III. BY INDUSTRIAL CATEGORY
Food and beverage                                 1             11.6             1.4
Textiles                                          1             37.5             4.6.
Non-metallic minerals                             5            117.8            14.4
Machinery and equipment                           3             50.0             6.1
Metallurgical products                            9            179.9            21.9
Electrical products                               4            104.8            12.8
Chemicals                                         7            133.5            16.3
Paper and pulp products                           3             85.0            10.4
Leather goods                                     1              8.5             1.0
Oil products                                      1              9.2             1.1
Other                                             4             82.4            10.0
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
IV. BY LOCATION
Mexico City area                                  9            168.4            20.5
Other                                            30            651.8            79.5
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
V. BY MATURITY
3-5 years                                         6            126.0            15.4
6-8 years                                        24            438.4            53.4
9-10 years                                         4            120.3            14.7
11-12 years                                         1              9.2             1.1
13 years                                        4            126.3             15.4
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
VI. BY ASSET SIZE OF SUBBORROWER
Up to Mex$50,000,000                   11            154.8            18.9
Mex$ 50,000,001 to 100,000,000                   11            195.4            23.8
Mex$100,000,001 to 200,000,000                    9            251.7            30.7
Mex$200,000,001 to 300,000,000                    6            143.3            17.4
Mex$300,000,001 to 400,000,000                    -               -               -
Mex$400,000,001 to 500,000,000                    1             37.5             4.6
Mex$500,000,001 and above                         1             37.5             4.6
Total                        39            820.2            100.0
j   Loans in which IBRD participated in their financing.
Of which hex$!34.5 million is from IBRD.
November 1975
LCPDF



MEXICO
SECOiD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Breakdown of FONEI's Operations by Financial Intermediaries as of September 30, 1975
(in Mex$ thousands)
F  0  N  E  I                            Financial
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY              Number of    IBRD        Domestic      Total      Intermediaries'        Totl%
(Groups)                        Loans       Funds     Curtency       Credit      own Resources         Credit
BANAMEX                                    15    201,878       105,019      306,897        48,352             355,249        30.9
COMERMEX                                    7     48,067        74,693      122,760        19,864             142,624        12.4
SOMEX-RANCO MEXICANO                        6     59,516        49,844      109,360        15,640             125,000        10.9
BANPAIS                                     4     50,195        41,694       91,889         17,929            109,818         9.5
SERFIN                                      5     42,272        39,609       81,881         22,773            104,654         9.1
BANCOMER                                    3     42.898        28.722       71.620          8.930             80.550         7.0
Subtotal           40    444,826        339,581     184,407        133,488            917,895        79.8
BANCO DEL ATLANTICO                         2     44,783        23,978       68,761          7,573             76,334 -       6.6
CREMI                                       2     19,225        27,675       46,900          5,230             52,130         4.5
CONFIA                                      1     14,617        22,883       37,500          6,000             43,500         3.9
SOFIMEX                                     1     16,900         5,100       22,000          3,000             25,000         2.3
BANCO DEL NOROESTE DE MEXICO                2      5,826         6,601       12,427          1,292             13,719         1.3
FINCOMER                                    2      1,839         6,097        7,936            870              8,806         0.8
Others                                      3      1.393         6,479        7,872            960              8.832         0.8
Total             53    549,409        438.394     987,803        158.413          1.146.216       100.0
Intermediaries' resource mobilization
as % of total credit                                                                          13.8
Intenmediaries' resource mobilization                                                                                              H
as % of IBRD funds                                                                            28.8
LCPDF
November, 1975



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPffNT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Audited Income Statements (1972-74) and Projected(1975-79) 1
(in Mex$ millions)
Audited                                   Projected
1972     1973      1974        L975       1976       1977      1978       1979
Revenues
Interest on Loans                                  -        0.8     14.3         45.6       89.7     141.7      194.3      238.4
Other revenues                                    5.8       9.5     14.7          2.0        3.0        3-5       4.5        6.0
TOTAL REVENUE                                  5.8      10.3     19.0         47.6       92.7     145.2      198.8      244.4
Expenses
Interest on borrowings                              -        -        3.8        17.5       30.5       43.4      63.5       3-8
Interest on bonds                                  -         -       2.6         12.2       36.5      64.0       83.4       96.6
Commitment fees and other charges                  1.4      3.3       3.0         1.9        5.3        4.2        2.9       1.7
Appraisal fees                                      -        -       1.3          2.7        3.5        6.u        7.5        9.0
Acminist. & other                                 2.3       4.2      5.9          11.5      13.5       16.5       17.0       18.0
TOTAL EXPENSES                                 3.7       7.5     1606         45.8      _9.3       134.1     171.3      209.1
NET INCOME                                     2.1       2.8      2.4           1.8       3.4       11.1       244.5     353
LCPDF
January 1976



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Past (1972-74) and Projected (1975-79) Balance Sheets as of December 31
(in Mex$ millions)
A u d i t e d                       P r o j_e c t e d
1972     1973    1974         1975       1976       1977      1978       1979
ASSETS
Cash at Banco de Mexico, S.A.                   124.2      87.4    51.3         19.0       21.3      27.4      51.9       80.1
Loans outstanding
Fixed interest rate loans                       -       52.6   294.7        717.0      951.0    865.7      722.9      558.3
Variable interest rate loans                    -         -       -            -       237.1    759.8   1,350.9   1,947.8
Feasibility study loans                         -        0.1      -           1.0        1.0      2.0        2.0        2.0
Loan Portfolio               -       52.7   294.7        718.0   1,189.1  1,627.5   2,075.8   2,508.1
Other                                             4.4       5.4     8.5           -          -         -         -          -
TOTAL ASSETS              128.6    145,5   354.5         737.0   1,210.4  1,654.9   2.127.7   2.588,2
LIABILITIES
Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Bonds, 9% coupon rate                           -         -    100.0        218.1      375.0    375.0      375.0      375.0
Bonds, 10% coupon rate                          -         -       -            -       195.6    409.0      582.3      674.6
IBRD
Loan I  2                                          _         _    116.0        368.1      416.5    401.2      384.8      367.2
Loan II  .                                          -        -       -            -        49.8    274.8      549.8      611.4
Other                                              1.5     15.6     6.2         10.0       15.0     10.0       10.0      267.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES           1.5      15.6   222.2        596.2    .        1,470.0   1,901.9   2,294.9
EQUITY
Government contributions                        125.0    125.0   125.0         131.7      146.0    161.3      177.7      204.9
Retained earnings                                  2.1      4.9      7.3         9.1       12.5      23.6      48.1       o7.
TOTAL EQUITY              127.1    129.9   132.3         140.8     1585  _184.9         225.8     2
TOTAL LIABILITY & EQUITY       128.6    145.5   354.5         737.0     1,210.4  1.654.9   2,127.7   2,588,2
2   In accordance with the Mexican accounting principles, these items are shown as liabilities until the Government
repays the Bank Loans.  As the principals are repaid corresponding amounts are converted into FONEI's equity.
>N
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Past (1972-74) and Projected (1975-79) Sources and Uses of Funds
(in Mex$ million)
A c t u a 1                         P r o j e c t e d
1972     1973      1974        1975       1976      1977     1978        1979
SOURCES
Net income                                      2.1       2.8      2.4          1.8        3.4     11.1      24.5        35.3
Loan collections                                 -         -       1.4          5.0       29.3     85.3    162.6        247,9
Drawdown domestic currency borrowings            -         -     100.0        118.1      352.5    178.4    223.3         95.2
Drawdown foreign exchange borrowings             -         -     116.0        258.8      112.5    225.0    225.0        125.2
Increase in Government equity contributions    -           -        -           6.7       14.3     15.3      16.4        31.2
Increase of other liabilities                   1.5      14.1       -           3.8        5.0       -         -        204.8
Decrease in other assets                         -         -        -           8.5         -         -        -          _
TOTAL SOURCES           3.6     16.9    219.8         402.7     517.0    515.1    651.8         739.6
USES
Loan disbursements                               -       52.7    243.4        428.3      500.4    523.7    610.9        680.2
Repayment of foreign borrowings                  -         -        -           6.7       14.3     15.3      16,4        31.2
Increase in other assets                        4.4       1.0      3.1           -          -         -        -           -
Decrease in other liabilities                    -         -       9.4           -          -        5.0       -
TOTAL USES              4.4      53.7    255.9        435.0      514.7    509.0    627.3        11.4
Cash at beginning of year                     125.0    124.2      87.4         51.3       19.0      21.3     27.4        51.9
Change in cash during year                     (0.8)   (36.8)   (36.1)        (32.3)       2.3       6.1     24.5        28.2
Cash at year-end                              124.2      87.4     51.3         19.0       21.3      27.4     51.9        80.1
LCPDF
January 1976



MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Approvals, Comnitments, and Disbursements Actual (1973-74) and Projected (1975-79)
(in Mex$ million)
A c t u a l                          P r o j e c t e d
1973          1974         1975      1976       1977      1978        1979
APPROVALS 1/                                          212.6        479.6         375.0      500.0    600.0        660.0       730.0
COMMITMENTS
67% of current year's approvals                      91.4        304.32513                3350    4020          442.2 
33% of previous year's approvals                     91.4      ______          296.5      123.7    165.0        198.0       217.8
TOTAL COMITMENTS             91.4        304.3         547.8      458.7    567.0        640.2       706.9
DISBURSEHENTS
'TTof current year's commitments                    527         243.4          328.7      275.2    340.2       384.1       424.1
40% of previous year's commitments                (_                            99.6      219.1    183.5        226.8       256.1
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS-/        52,7        243.4         428.3      494.3    523.7        610.9       680.2
1/  Of which IBRD (Mex$million)                        31.3        245.0         209.5      250       300.0       330.0       365.0
(US$ million)                       2.5         19.6          16.8       20        24.0        26.4        29.2
2/  Of which IBRD (Mex$million)                          -         116.0         258.8    112.5       225.0       275.0       340.0
9.3          20.7       9.0       18.0        22.0        23.2
LCPDF
November, 1975
U.
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 24
I.EXICO
SECOND INDLJSTRIAL EQUIPIENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Resource Position
(1972-First, Quarter 1978)
(in Niex$ millions)
C u r r e n c y
Domestic           Foreign
Initial Resources                                       125              437.5
Bonds Issued (9%)                                       375                 -
Profits (1972-74)                                          7.4              _
FONEI's resources up to end-1974                        507.4            437.5
Projects Financed (1973-Sept.75)                        549.2            437.5
Resources available as of Sept.1975                     (h1.t6)
plus:  loan collection (1975-First quarter 78)        119.6
Profits (1975-First quarter 197b)               17.5
Resources available for Loan approval
(1976-First quarter 1976)                 95.3
minus: loan approvals (1976-First quarter 78)         600.0            600.0
Resource gap                                            504.7            600.0
(US$ million equivalent):                                40.4             48.o
January 1976



ANNEX 25
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Assumptions for FONEI's Financial Projections (1975-80)
-  Average FONEI subloan:  Mex$18.8 million (US$1.5 million) about half of which
is in foreign exchange.
- Subloans have an average term of eight years including two years grace.
- Notional interest rates for FONEI (and the average cost of debt funds to
financieras):
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980
Average cost of financiera
(%) deposits                11.9    12.1    12.7    11.2       9.7    9.4
FONEI's relending rate (%)
to final borrowers          13.5    13.7    14.3    12.8    11.3   11.0
/1   October 1975.
- One fourth of the final borrowers would opt for the variable interest rate
regime (para.4.30).
LCPDF
November 1975



ANNEX 26
MEXICO
SECOND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
(US$ million)
Cumulative Disbursements
Amount             End of Quarter
1976 J
Second Quarter                     0.5                       0.5
Third Quarter                      1.5                       2.0
Fourth Quarter                     2.0                       4.0
1977
First Quarter                      4.0                       8.0
Second Quarter                     4.0                      12.0
Third Quarter                      5.0                      17.0
Fourth Quarter                     5.0                      22.0
1978
First Quarter                      6.o                      28.0
Second Quarter                     6.o                      34.0
Third Quarter                      5.0                     39.0
Fourth Quarter                     5.0                     44 o
1979
First Quarter                      4.0                     h8.o
Second Quarter                     2.0                     50.0
j Subject to changes, depending on amount of retroactive financing.
LCP DF
iNovemaber, 1975



