CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1205 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Industrial Equipment Fund Project - FONEI)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated April 30, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO 25E MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called the Trustee).
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and the
Trustee dated October 29, 1971, the Guarantor has entrusted a
special fund (Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial) to the Trustee
for the purpose of promoting and financing the development of
industrial and service enterprises designed to increase exports
and/or efficiently replace imports;
WHEREAS the Government of United Mexican States, the Borrower
and the Trustee have requested the Bank to assist in financing
such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of which will be transferred
to the Trustee, for the account of the above-mentioned special
fund, but only on condition, inter alia, that the Trustee agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Trustee, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree is follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the  --eral terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the Go <ral Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee shall, by means of FONEI, carry
out the Project described in the Schedule to this Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound indus-
trial, administrative and financial policies and practices and in
accordance with the Operating Regulations, and shall, at all times,
make available, promptly as needed, such funds and other resources
as shall be required to meet FONEI's operating expenses.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and without
limitation to its obligations under the preceding subsection, the
Trustee shall (i) make or cause to be made available to FONEI for
the Project, for a period of not less than 16 years from the date
of this Agreement, and as required by FONEI, funds amounting in
the aggregate to the equivalent of not less than forty million
dollars ($40,000,000), on such terms and conditions and at such
times as shall be required for the carrying out of the Project
in accordance with subsection (a) hereof, and (ii) inform the
Bank of the terms and conditions for the provision of such funds
and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
(c) The Trustee shall take all such action as shall be nec-
essary; (i) to able FONEI's Comite Tecnico to approve and apply
Operating Regulations satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) to cause
the Operating Regulations not to be changed or amended without
prior consultation with the Bank.
0


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Trustee shall, out of FONEI's resources, make a FONEI
loan to a Participating Intermediary which shall have made a sub-
loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project in ac-
cordance with the Operating Regulations.
(b) Interest on sub-loans shall be payable in accordance
with either one of the following two methods: (1) a variable rate
to be adjusted, if necessary, every six months so as to make it
equal to the prevailing interest rate on the month before that in
which the adjustment is made; or (2) a fixed annual interest rate
equal to the prevailing interest rate at the time the FONEI loan
for financing the corresponding sub-loan is made.
(c) The choice of the annual interest rate payable on a
sub-loan in accordance with sub-section (b) above shall be made
by the Investment Enterprise receiving such sub-loan on the date
of the sub-loan.
(d) For purposes of this Section, "prevailing interest rate"
means an annual interest rate equal to 13.5% as adjusted from time
to time to reflect, after November 1975, any change of at least
0.25 percentage points in the average cost of borrowed funds to
the financieras operating in Mexico, as calculated monthly by the
Trustee.
(e) Any FONEI loan shall bear interest at an annual rate
two percentage points below the interest rate borne by the sub-
loan with respect to which such FONEI loan is made.


﻿-6-
(f) The principal amount of any FONEI loan shall not be less
than the equivalent of 3.5 million pesos and not more than the
equivalent of 37.5 million pesos.
(g) The agreements providing for FONEI loans shall provide
that if sub-loans or any part thereof shall be repaid to Partici-
pating Intermediaries in advance of maturity, or if they shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by the Participating Intermediaries, the Participating Intermedia-
ries shall repay promptly to the Trustee, the amounts of the FONEI
loans corresponding to the sub-loans or parts thereof so repaid
in advance or disposed of for value.
(h) The Trustee shall inform the Bank of any substantial
change in the repayment provisions of any FONEI loan.
Section 2.03. The Trustee undertakes that FONEI will adopt a
mechanism to encourage the Participating Intermediaries to carry
out appraisals of Investment Projects including, inter alia, (i)
reimbursement to the Participating Intermediary for the reasonable
cost of consultant services incurred by it for the appraisal there-
of, or (ii) payment to the Participating Intermediaries of reason-
able fees when appraisals are carried out by the staff of the Par-
ticipating Intermediaries.
Section 2.04. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Trustee shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with a description of the Investment Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a description


﻿-7 -
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Trustee for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, not exceeding the amount of $750,000 equivalent when added
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the First Loan for
such Investment Project or such other amount as the Bank and the
Trustee shall agree.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the applica-
tions and requests to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to para-
graph (a) hereof shall be submitted to the Bank before June 30,
1978.
Section 2.05. (a) The Trustee undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, all sub-loans will be made on terms whereby
the Participating Intermediary shall obtain, by written contract
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legals
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee


﻿-8-
and the Participating Intermediary including the right of the
Participating Intermediary to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise
to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank and the Trustee if the Bank shall so request, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and that such insurance cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity there-
under be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Trustee or the Participating Intermediary shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Investment


﻿-9-
Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform any of its obli-
gations under its contract with the Porticipating Intermediary.
(b) The Trustee shall cause the Participating Intermediary
to exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank,
Trustee and the Participating Intermediary, (ii) comply with its
obligations under FONEI loans, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Trustee shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the FONEI loans, the
sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, and the Investment Projects.
(b) The Trustee: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress and cost of the Project
and of the Investment Projects, and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the industries, works
and other facilities of the Investment Enterprises and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿- 10-
Section 2.07. (a) The Trustee shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Trustee shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by the Trustee of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Trustee shall operate FONEI in accordance
with sound financial, industrial and administrative policies and
practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 3.02. The Trustee covenants that it will take such
measures as shall be required for FONEI to strengthen and maintain,
at all times, qualified and competent technical staff for purposes
of carrying on FONEI's operations.
Section 3.03. The Trustee shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accoun-
ting practices the operations and financial condition of FONEI and
shall cause the Participating Intermediaries to maintain such rec-
ords for purposes of the Investment Project financed by them.
Section 3.04. The Trustee shall: (i) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of the accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and re-
lated statements) of FONEI for each fiscal year, in accordance
vith sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
and qualified auditors appointed by the Guarantor; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)


﻿- 12                                    0
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of FONEI and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasunably request.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Trustee thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the I an Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-15 -
For the Trustee:
Banco de Mexico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
M4xico 1, D.F. M4xico
Cable address:
BANXICO
Mixico 1, D.F. Mexico
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Trustee may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as he shall desig-
nate in writing.
Section 5.03. The Trustee shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Trustee, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the Trustee pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-16                                     0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
(as Trustee for Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial)
By /s/ A. Lajous
Authorized Representative


﻿-17 -
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a lending program to finance fixed
assets and feasibility studies for industrial enterprises in Mexico
producing goods and associated services for export or efficiently
replacing imports.
0


