Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9019
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
SEPTEMBER 25, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distributCon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Mexican peso (Mex$)
1982     1983     1984      1985     1986      1987        1988    June 30. 1969
USSI   MexS  67.2    150.3    186.2    310.3    837.4    1,406.8    2,288.3         2,387.4
G3VERNMENT OF MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CFE             -  Comision Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Comission)
CGI             -  Capital goods Industries
COCOFIN         -  Comit- Coordinador y de Evaluaclon Financiera del Programa de Desarrollo a la
Industria de Blenes de Capital (Commttee for the Coordination and Financial
Evaluation of the Capital Goods Industrial Development Program)
ERR             -  Economic Rate of Return
FISOMEX         -  Fomento Industrial SOMEX (Industrial Development SOMEX)
FOMEX           -  Fondo para el Fomento do las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados (Fund for the
Development of Exports of Manufactured Goods)
FONEI           -  Fondo Nacional do Equipamiento Industrial (Industrial Equipment Financing Fund)
FRR             -  Financial Rate of Return
GOM             -  Government of Mexico
INFOTEC         -  Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (Technological Information Service)
NAFIN           -  Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
PCR             -  Project Completion Report
PEMEX           -  Petroleos Mexicanos
PROFIDE         -  Programa de FinancTamiento on Divines para Ia Exportacion (Foreign Exchange Financing
Program for Exports)
PROFIRI         -  Programa de Financiamiento Integral para Ia Modernizacion Industrial (Industrial
Reconversion Fund)
Program         -  Capital Goods Industries Development Program
SEPAFIN         -  Secretaria do Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of National
Patrimony and Industrial Development)
SOMEX           -  Sociedad Mexicana de Credito Industrial (Mexican Association of Industrial Credit)
UNIDO              United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D C 20433
USA
OffOce of Directnt.GeltnI
Ope#at:afs IvaluitUm
September 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Capital Goods Industries Development Project
(Loall 2142-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Capital Goods Industries Development Project
(Loan 2142-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted dirstribution and may be usod by fecipients only in the performance
Of their offcial duties. Is contents may not otherwisse be discksed without World Banks Authoriztion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE             ........................................                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..... ...........................................           iii
Part I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....           ............  1
1.1    Project Identity.                  .     ....... ..      ....           1
1.2  Background.........    1
1.3    Project Objectives and Description .           .                        3
1.4  Project Design and Organization....                                       4
1.5    Project Implementation ..... ..        ..... . ..         ...           5
1.6 Project Results....                                                        7
1.7  Project Sustainability                              ....                  9
1.8    Bank Performance ...........                          . . .10
1.9  Borrower Performance ......11
1.10   Project Relationships ......        ...............................    12
1.11   Consulting Services .......................................            13
1.12   Project Documentation and Data .....         .......................   13
Part II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...          ............  15
2.1    Comments on Part I .......         .................................   15
2.2    Bank Performance ..        ............................                16
2.3    Borrower Performance ......................................            17
2.4    Lessons Learned ........ ...................................           19
Part III:  STATISTICAL DATA ........................................            21
Attachment A:  Pro4ect Costs and Financing Plan ....................            23
Attachment B:  Amendments/Waivers vs. Disbursement ....           .............  24
Attachment C:  Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements    .......         25
Attachment D:  Basic Data and Project Timetable ....................            26
Attachment E:  Use of Bank Resources ...............................            27
Attachment F:  Related Bank Loans ..................................            28
Attachment G:  Commitments .........................................            29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OP CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1:    Distribution of Bank Funds ..........          ......................  30
2.    Breakdown of the Costs and Financing of Technical
Assistance and Other Complementary Measures ............      .     31
3.    Characteristics of Subprojects Financed  ..  ...............           32
4.    Pro4ect Investment by Subsector and Benefits ...   ...........         34
5.    FONEI Loan Portfolio ....... ....      ........................        35
6.    Project Promotion ................ .* ......... . ................     36
7.    Supervision Visits .... . ..*.... . ....................... ..........  37
8.    Economic and Financial Review of Loan 2142-ME .............            38



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRl.S DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Capital Goods
Industries Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2142-ME in the amount of
US$152.3 million was approved on May 13, 1982. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1989, three and a half years behind schedule and it was fully
disbursed.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance
Division of the Country Department II, Latin America and the Caribbean Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in June 1989, and it is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreemen,1
and their successive Amendments, supervision and audit reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The original project objective was to achieve an efficient
development of Mexico's capital goods manufacturing subsector and thereby help
to improve industrial productivity and employment, the balance of payments and
the pace of technology assimilation and development in Mexico (para. 1.3.1).
The Loan was designed as a credit line with two components. The first
component provided financing for the establishment or expansion of medium-
sized capital goods industries (CGI). The second component provided financing
for technical assistance, training, technological information services, arnd
feasibility studies to assist companies participating in the Capital Goods
Industries Development Program (the Program).   The project was substantially
changed several times during implementation. These changes transformed the
project into a credit facility for fixed and working capital finan:ing of all
types of industrial projects and implicitly changed the project objectives
into more generalized support of industry in an economy starved of foreign
exchange.
Implementation Experience
2.          The project could not achieve the original objectives (para.
1.5.1). The Loan was approved at the outset of Mexico's deep economic crisis
of 1982. The magnitude of the macroeconomic instability was underestimated
and the consequent changes in purposes for which the loan could be used
blurred the performance of the credit line and of the "financial delivery"
system of the project. The alternative of cancelling the Loan, which was
suggested by early supervision missions, might have been an appropriate
project response at the time. However, Mexico's need for external resources
during the economic crisis and the expectations of an economic upturn
precluded that decision.
3.          The initial modification of the project, in April 1983, was made
in response to the gravity of the foreign exchange crisis in the early 1980s
(para. 1.5.2). The initial amendment to the Loan Agreement reallocated funds
to the Export Financing Program (PROFIDE) to assist in the financing of any
industrial export project. A second amendment - under the Special Action
Program approved by the Bank in early 1984 to accelerate disbursements - made
permanent working capital for capital goods producers and enterprises directly
controlled by NAFIN, eligible for financing. A third amendment, in April
1986, broadened the eligibility criteria of the Loan to include investment and
working capital financing for any enterprise in the industrial sector. The
approach of gradually expanding the eligibility criteria of the Loan may have
delayed the recognition of the most important financing needs experienced in



- i.v -
Mexico at the time, the generalized lack of foreign exchange for working
capital and industrial restructuring financing to imorove the utilization of
existing capacity. However, successive market-driven changes to expedite
disbursements gradually changed the project's focus from CGI development to
general financing of any viable industrial project (Attachment F).
4.          The petformance of the Bank (paras. 1.8.1 - 1.8.3) through some
stages of the project cycle was hardly adequate. Project supervision was
infrequent and not intensive enough until 1987. Recommendations made by
supervision missions were not transmitted clearly enough to the Mexican
authorities, and the Bank was not assertive enough in insisting on
improvements in NAFIN's subproject evaluation and supervision procedures.
Finally, the project suffered from the overall adverse economic developments
that were underestimated during project preparation and early implementation
periods.
5.          The performance of the Borrower (NAFIN) was similarly inadequate
(paras. 1.9.1 - 1.9.3); it shared the responsibility for the actions taken -
and those not taken - through the project cycle, which affected the results of
the operation. There was a lack of clear lines of responsibilities, and the
Committee for the Coordination and Financial Evaluation of the Capital Goods
Industrial Development Project (COCOFIN) failed to play its role of project
coordinator and facilitator. NAFIN was inexperienced in managing second-tier
operations, and failed to improve sufficiently its subproject evaluation,
supervision and reporting capabilities during project implementation; its
response to Bank suggestions concerning necessary improvements in these areas
was weak.
Project Results and Sustainability
6.          As mentioned above, the project did not achieve its original
objectives (para. 1.6.7). The amount and number of subloans granted to CGI
represent only about 12 to 15 percent and 25 percent of the total,
respectively. Equity financing was only one-third of the planned amount.
Finally, the financing of technical assistance and complementary measures fell
short of the original plan. The changed economic situation required and
justified drastic modifications of the project that had been designed in a
relatively stable environment. These modifications led finally to relatively
quick disbursements. The Loan financed 191 subprojects in seven industrial
subsectors, whereby $100.9 million were used for fixed capital financing and
$51.4 million for working capital, export, equity and some technical
assistance financing, thus aiding the country's balance of payments and
providing funds for improved industrial capacity utilization and
restructuring.
7.          Since NAFIN did not compile the requisite ex-post data on
subprojects, only little information on the composition and performance of the
subloan portfolio is available. Based upon portfolio information submitted
by FONEI and a very small selection of subprojects examined by NAFIN, a very
rough estimate would indicate that at the time the assessment was made, as
many as 50 percent of all subprojects may have had achieved lower than
expected financial and economic results and that in many cases these results
may have been below the opportunity cost of capital. However, considering



that the assessment was made only about 12 - 15 months after the bulk of
disbursements/investm,ents was made, and that at this time the Mexican industry
was in a process of adjustments, it would be difficult to draw any firm
conclusions from this estimate. The available ex-ante information indicates
that the project may have helped many enterprises to prepare themselves for
and pass through the critical stage of transition from a widely controlled and
protected to a more liberal economy. Whether these possible positive effects
of the project are sustainable, depends on the impact the recent economic
liberalization measures have had on the financed enterprises which were all
established under a proLective import substitution regime.
Lessons Learned
8.          The main lessons that may be learned from the execution of this
project (paras. 1.8.4, 1.9.4) are that: (a) the Bank should closely assess
and monitor the linkages between a proposed operation and the economic
situation in and prospects for the country when timing an operation, and not
hesitate to substantially modify or cancel projects, even at a very late stage
of project preparation, if basic assumptions underlying the project design
have changed or were faulty from the outset; (b) project supervision should be
more frequent and intensive; (c) the Bank should act more assertively in its
follow-up on weaknesses in project implementation reported by supervision
missions; (d) clear operating policies and institutional responsibilities for
project implementation should be agreed upon at loan negotiations; and (e) the
credit line approach, for financing of larger subprojects and subprojects with
long gesta8.ion periods, such as CGI subprojects, could substantially benefit
from the pre-identification and pre-appraisal of subprojects, i.e. from the
*ireparation of a pipeline of promising subprojects covering a reasonable
initial period of project implementation. If this approach had been chosen,
as initially intended (para. 1.4.3), many difficulties experienced during
later stages in the project cycle, e.g. the lack of demand for CGI financing,
could have been detected and dealt with during project preparation.
9.          NAFIN's list of lessons learned from Project experience is very
similar to the above, with the exception that NAFIN seems to place less weight
on the importance of measuring project outcomes against stated objectives and
on the value of careful project appraisal and risk analysis (para. 2.3.3).
NAFIN, which will in the future act exclusively as a second-tier institution,
would be well advised to develop intensive supervision and information
services, to upgrade its project evaluation capabilities, and to instill among
first-tier financial institutions through which it operates a deep sense of
the value of these tools.



PROJEC.T COMPLETION REPOhT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1         Project Identity
Name:     Capital Goods Irdustries Development Project
Loan No:  2142-ME
Amount:   $152.3 million
RVP Unit: LAC Region (LA2TF)
Country:  Mexico
Sector:   Industry
1.2         Backgro'md
1.2.1       The 1979 National Industrial Development Plan of Mexico identified
the capital goods industries (CGI) sector as critical to the country's
development needs. In March 1979, the Government of Mexico (GOM) issued the
Capital Goods Promotion Plan and its implementation program (the Program),
designed to provide a policy framework supportive of efficient CGI
development.
1.2.2       The Program was based on an extensive study conducted by the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and sponsored by
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN)1/ which described the CGI sector as handicapped by
low productivity, excessive fragmentation, limited specialization, inadequate
technology development, unreliable input supply, and high regional
concentration. The study idertified the absence of a coherent policy
framework, and the lack of supporting mechanisms for the development of the
sector (financir.g, training, research, and information) as the main obstacles
to be removed. To rectify these shortfalls, the Program proposea specific
measures "to address the technical, structural and information deficiencies of
the industry, and to develop an institutional set-up which ensure the adequate
mobilization of domestic and external resources".
1.2.3       The Program also proposed changes in the CGI policy framework,
particularly in trade policy, fiscal incentives, and public sector
procurement. In the area of trade policy, the GOM gradually moved away from
'/ "Una Estrategia para Desarrollar la Industria de Bienes de Capital";
United Nations Industrial Development Organization, Mexico, 1977.



an import licensing system to tariffs. In January 1982, in the wake of
introducing the peso float, tarifis were reduced to a level where domestic
prices in "mature" industries did not exceed those prevailing in foreign
markets by more than 15 percent. Infant industries were to be protected
through higher tariffs and import licenses for a fixed period of up to five
years. Concerning fiscal inzentives, the Program provided for tax rebates to
CGI enterprises on the basir. of output, price, and domestic content
requirements. New investments were granted an additional tax credit
proportional to the numbe; of jobs created.  Another tax credit was granted to
companies meeting specific export targets and foreign exchange earnings.
Companies purchasing domestically produced capital goods were also eligible
for tax rebates on the purchase price.
1.2.4       The Program relied on the investment plans of Petroleos Mexicanos
(PEMEX) and Confederarion Federal de Electricidad (CFE), as "drivers" of CGI
investments. A neu law (January, 1980) established common procurement
procedures for all public sector agencies and enterprises. These procedures
specified -riteria for the selection' of domestic suppliers and domestic
preference margins.
1.2.5       Taking into consideration the results of the above mentioned 'UNIDO
study, the Staff Appraisal Report found that the Mexican CGI subsector had
been one of the more dynamic groups within the manufacturing sector over the
two decades preceding the appraisal. Starting from a relatively low level,
output had been increasing during this period by about 9 percent p.a. in real
terms, and the rate of growth had been increasing to 11 percent p.a. over 1977
- 1980. Nevertheless, compared with other large middle income countries, the
Mexican CGI subsector had remained relatively underdeveloped. It accounted
for only 11 percent of total manufacturing output, compared to about 20
percent in Argentina and 15 percent in Brazil. On the other hand, total
requirements of capital goods had grown rapidly over the past three years at a
rate exceeding 20 percent p.a.. Over the same period, Mexican domestic
production supplied about 50 percent of domestic demand, compaved to 80
perce-t in Brazil. Capital goods represented Mexico's largest import
category, accounting for almost one-third of merchandise imports, and,
according to trade balance coefficient calculations, metal products and
machinery were the main contributors to the foreign trade deficit.
1.2.6       In addition to the past growth of capital goods demand, the large
increases in investment in both public and private sectors anticipated in the
1979 National Industrial Development Plan indicated an even larger growth
potential for the 1980s. For all the above reasons, the Government of Mexico
(GOM) considered the capital goods industries to be a strategic subsector
whose development was expected to be critical to Mexico's immediate 8s well as
long-term needs. This assessment appeared justified to the Bank, and, since
the scarcity of credit in foreign exchange to support CGI production and sales
placed the Mexican CGI in a disadvantageous competitive position relative to
foreign suppliers, NAFIN's request for financial support of the Program was
received favorably. This initiated the process which led to the approval of
the Loan in May 1982.



- 3 -
1.3         Project Objectives and Description
1.3.1       The project, as it was originally designed, constituted the first
phase of the Program, whose objective was to achieve the development of an
efficient capital goods subsector, and thus to help improve productivity,
employment, balance of payments, and technology assimilation and development
in Mexico. The project would help to correct existing technical, structural
and other deficiencies in the subsector and would provide financial and
technical assistance to capital goods manufacturing industries and support
institutions. Total project costs were estimated at $1,147 million, to which
the Loan was expected to contribute only $152.3 million or 132.
1.3.2       The Loan had two main components (Attachment A):
(a) Financing component: $130 million for medium- and long-term
loan financing of fixed investments to support the creation or expansion of
medium-sized private capital goods enterprises (through NAFIN, Sociedad
Mexicana de Credito Industrial - SOMEX and Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial -
FONEI); $17 million for equity investments by NAFIN and Fomento Industrial -
SOMEX (FISOMEX) in medium-sized capital goods enterprises; and $2 million to
finance technological research and development on a risk sharing basis between
the investor and FONEI;2
(l)  Complementary activities component: $1 million for training
the staff of enterprises and of participating financial institutions in the
preparation, promotion, and evaluation of capital goods projects, including
specialized training in subcontracting, quality control and export promotion;
assessing the existing training programs and facilities (through the Comite
Coordinador y de Evaluacion Financiera of the Program - COCOFIN); establishing
a mechanism to monitor progress in resolving technical and structural issues
affecting the subsector; strengthening the expansion of the information
dissemination system for the subsector (through the Secretaria de Patrimonio y
Fomento Industrial - SEPAFIN); expanding technological information services
(Servicio Informacion Tecnologica - lNFOTEC); and assessing the installed
capacity of capital goods manufacturers (COCOFIN).
1.3.3       In addition to the Loan financed components, the project
anticipated very substantial contributions from external sources, including
bilateral export credits ($147 million), local banks and project sponsors
($622 million), and foreign banks and collaborators ($223 million). In
addition to the areas covered by the Loan, these resources were expected to be
available also for working capital and sales financing (Attachment A).
1.3.4       The substantial economic recession that curtailed capital goods
investment from the very outset and the flaws in original design and
organization of the project each affected negatively the acnievement of the
project's initial objectives. Therefore, the project was modified to
authorize channeiling of the proceeds of the Loan to promote overall
indus-rial development. The several modifications in the Loan transformed the
sharply focused project into a most general and flexible industrial credit
2/ The Loan amount also included US$2.3 million for capitalized
front-end fees.



line whose main o''ective was to provide foreign exchange to finance any
viable industrial subproject, thus responding to the changed economic
situation resulting from the 1982 crisis (Attachment B).
1.4         Proiect Design and Organization
1.4.i       Proiect T'esi n.  The CGI study by NAFIN-UNIDO and the Bank's
subsequent sectoral reports on Mexico3'/ proved to have two basic
shortcomings: (i) the assertion of competitive advantages of CGI in Mexico was
not substantiated by adequate quantitative economic or market analysis; and
(ii) the lack of a detailed assessment of installed capacity and its
utilization contributed to overestimating investment demand. Subsequent
economic analysis was insensitive to the overwhelming impact of t)e 1982
economic downturn on CGI investment.
1.4.2       During project preparation, the project concept was changed from
financing a portfolio of pre-appraised direct investments in CGI by NAFIN, to
a credit line for the financing of mainly private sector sponsored investments
in medium-scale CGIs. While both approaches aimed at the domestic production
of capital goods for large state-owned enterprises (mainly PEMEX and CFE), the
former would have had NAFIN as principal investor, while the latter relied on
private entrepreneurs to carry out the investments, with NAFIN acting as
wholesaler of funds.
1.4.3       NAFIN's role as main investor and promoter of capital goods
industry was not supported by the GOM, as it was expected to encourage
vertical integration in a subsector characterized in other countries by a
large degree of horizontal integration.   On the other hand, a credit line
dedicated to finance medium-scale private capital goods investment projects
had mixed reception in the Bank - being judged by some staff as a "disservice
to the country"-, since it was believed that the long lead-time of the capital
goods investment/production cycle would deter private investors. The Bank
finally supported the credit line approach, departing from the prevailing Bank
experience with CGI projects, which favored loans to finance pre-identified
large projects or to provide overall support to the expansion of an existing
capital goods subsector. Bank experiences had already demonstrated the
complexity and pitfalls of CGI development and its dependence on a favorable
macroeconomic framework.
1.4.4       The lack of demand analysis left unresolved whether entrepreneurs
would be willing to invest in production facilities for import substitution of
capital goods substantially depending on sales to state-owned enterprises.
Moreover, CGI financing was not very attractive to financial intermediaries
because of the newness of this non-traditional activity. CGI financing
required long-term exposure and higher acceptance of risks in relation to
other business opportunities, not always compensated for by interest rate
spreads. Cyclical issues aside, these considerations proved to be the major
deterrent to significant participation of both private irvestors and financial
intermediaries in the CGI Program.
3/ "Mexico: Manufacturing Sector - Situation, Prospects and Policies"
(Report 11671-ME, May/1977) and "Mexico: Development Strategy, Prospects
and Problems" (Report 13605-ME, August/1981).



1.4.5       The series of adjustments to the initial project concept made
during the first four years of implementation, lead to a major change in
focus, but produced only a minor impact on Loan disbursements (Attachments B
and C). Therefore, in April 1986, loan eligibility was extended to include
financing of fixed and working capital for any viable industrial enterprise,
the free-standing working capital component was substantially increased from
$20 to $60 million and the financing of industrial services was permitted.
These changes are discussed under project implementation (Section 1.5).
1.4.6       Project OrRanization.  In the original design, the organization of
the project relied on NAFIN, FONEI and SOMEX as implementing agencies, with
NAFIN acting as a second-tier institution for the first time.   However,
NAFIN's dominant organizational culture was that of a first-tier lender, not
of a wholesaler. Therefore, it encountered major organizational resistances.
FONEI which had the experience and the administrative and staff capability for
the Program, was brought into the operation under Bank auspices as second-
tier lender. SOMEX experienced an absolute lack of demand from CGIs and had
to be eliminated from the list of eligible intermediaries in February 1984.
1.4.7       COCOFIN, chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury, with a
Technical Secretariat established in NAFIN, was responsible for: (a)
overseeing the implementation of the Program; (b) establishing the Loan
operating policies and guidelines; (c) reviewing the progress achieved by the
executing agencies; (d) supervising the use of resources; and (e) coordinating
the implementation of the complementary measures (training, information
dissemination, and technical assistance). This reliance on a high level
coordinating committee to ensure the operational consistency of the Program
proved to be a mistake, particularly in a situation of serious economic
crisis, when senior officials were occupied with other matters. The committee
also failed to act decisively when the Program was halted at its early stages
as a result of policy conflicts among the main participating agencies.41
1.5         Project Implementation
1.5.1       Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  The Loan was approved in
May 1982 but became effective only in March 1983, due to the lack of
coordination and agreement on the operational rules of the Program among
implementing agencies. In retrospect, the timing of the project was
inappropriate, imainly because the original project design was based on the
assumption that the high level of economic activity experienced before the
1982 economic crisis would continue. The depth and duration of the 1982
economic downturn and its overwhelming impact on CGI investment demand had
not been foreseen at the time of Loan approval. Whether they could have been
anticipated is debatable, although "red lights" of an economic downturn were
already perceived in the financial community, and in. February 1982, the GOM
had announced an economic adjustment program centered on a drastic reduction
of the public sector deficit. Changes in the policy framework (QRs reimposed,
4/ Disagreements on interest rate spreads between NAFIN and FONEI
deadlocked for almost a year the approval of the guidelines for executing
the Program.



unstable exchange rates) and cuts in the investment budgets of parastatal
enterprises negatively affected demand and the investment outlook for CGI.5/
1.5.2       As the economic downturn was expected to be temporary, it was
believed initially that the project could be activated through relatively
marginal changes in the project design. However, in April 1983, the Loan
Agreement was amended to provide up to $100 million to the Export Development
Fund (FOMEX) as executor of the PROFIDE Fund, for the financing of inputs of
exporting companies. For this purpose, Loan eligibility was extended to all
industrial export enterprises. The amendment, though transitory in nature,6/
was a substantial departure from the original project objectives, diluting the
already weak institutional drive of NAFIN to implement the Program. The
reallocation showed limited results because of the availability o compet_tive
credit sources. Besides, the reinstated import control system guaranteed to
importers the availability of foreign exchange at the official rate from the
Bank of Mexico. At the end of 1985, $73 million were transferred back for
capital goods investment financing.
1.5.3       In early 1984, again in response to the gravity of the foreign
exchange crisis, the Bank approved a Special Action Program (SAP) to
accelerate disbursements under loans to Mexico. In this context, the Loan's
eligibility criteria were expanded, allowing the financing of permanent
working capital for capital goods producers, increasing the financing
percentage of local expenditures, raising the limit for equity financing, and
extending eligibility to enterprises directly controlled by NAFIN.
Simultaneously, given the reorganization of the Mexican financial sector after
the nationalization of banks in 1982, some changes were made in financial
intermediation.7/
1.5.4       The above described changes did not substantially expedite the
disbursement of the Loan. Since the pace of commitments remained far below
expectations and a revival of credit demand for CGI financing was not in
sight, a more drastic change became the inescapable alternative to Loan
cancellation. Therefore, in April 1986, another amendment broadened further
the eligibility criteria of the Loan to include investment and working capital
financing of enterprises in any industrial subsector and the financing of
industrial services. Also, from mid-1987 on, the Loan was administered by the
5/ Manufacturing activity which had recorded a 9Z annual growth rate
during the 1978-81 period, declined by 3Z in 1982 and a further 7% in 1983.
Capacity utilization in CGI manufacturing fell from close to 95Z in the
boom years to 30Z in 1983.
6/ The allocation of funds to FOMEX/PROFIDE was thought of as a
bridge-loan until the Export Development Loan (EDP) to Mexico became
effective.    However,  the US$22.6 million  disbursed  under  the  loan  to
FOMEX/PROFIDE were not reallocated to the capital goods financing
categories when the EDP was approved in June 1983.
7t SOMEX/FISOMEX were terminated as financial agents and BANCOMEXT
substituted Banco de Mexico as Trustee of FOMEX.



Department for Special Operations established by NAFIN to conduct industrial
restructuring operations (PROFIRI). Following the broad changes in project
focus that permitted lending to the whole industrial sector and that
allocated a larger share of lending to the financing of free-standing working
capital, Loan disbursements surged. The creation of a Project Promotion
Department in NAFIN also contributed to expediting Loan disbursements
(Attachment B).
1.5.5       Imolementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to
be completed by December 1985. Confronted with slow disbursement, the closing
dates for commitments and disbursements were repeatedly postponed, the last
time to June 1988 and June 1989, respectively. The situation was exasperated
as NAFIN kept cancelling many approved subloans and using such freed amounts
to increase other subloans until May 1989. Disbursements were continued until
June 1989 when the project was finally completed with three-and-one-half years
delay (Attachment D).
1.5.6       Proiect Costs.  At appraisal, the total project costs (aggregate
subproject costs plus technical assistance) were estimated at about $1,147.3
million (Attachment A). This estimate was based on highly optimistic
assumptions about complementary external financing of the project, including
bilateral export credits and suppliers credits, raised through principal
implementing agencies, and local resources from private sector sponsors and
financial institutions. While these expectations may not have fully
materialized, the actual total project cost reported by NAFIN, $209.4 million,
appear much too low, which must be attributed to NAFIN's inadequate recording
and reporting procedures. According to the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of
the Loan were to finance up to 50 percent of total subproject costs, which
means that NAFIN would have violated the Loan Agreement, if total project
costs were not at least $300 million. However, the Bank checked on the 50
percent requirement each time a subproject was approved, and some subprojects
providing for more than 50 percent Bank financing were even rejected or had to
be miodified. For these reasons, the total project costs should be somewhere
between $300 million and the original estimate. Bank staff is still trying to
clarify this question with NAFIN.
1.6         Proiect Results
1.6.1       The Loan of $152.3 million was used to finance 191 subloans
totaling $149.7 million, technical assistance amounting to $0.3 million, and
the front-end fee of $2.3 million (Annex 1). Of the total Loan, NAFIN used
$113.4 million for 146 operations, i.e. more than double the amount planned at
project appraisal. FONEI used $14.0 million for 31 operations, instead of the
planned $64.5 million, because of competing loans it had received from the
Bank. FOMEX/PROFIDE used $22.6 million for 14 export financing operations.
Only $30 million were used for CGI financing instead of the entire Loan
amount, and only $100.9 million were used for fixed capital financing, instead
of the originally planned $130 million. Equity financing amounted to $5.6
million, compared to the planned $17 million and only 10 percent of the
technical assistance component was utilized (Annex 2). The funds not used by
FONEI and FOMEX were mainly used for export financing ($22.6 million) and
permanent working capital financing ($20.6 million). The Loan financed 26 new
ventures and 165 existing enterprises (Annex 3). Concerning the terms and
conditions of subloans, 77 percent of subloans had repayment periods falling



- 8 -
between three and seven years; interest rates were set for individual subloans
under the General Interest Rate Agreement between the Bank and the Government
(GIRA) and fluctuated in line with the rate of inflation.
1.6.2       Based on the subproject appraisal reports submitted to the Bank by
NAFIN, the subprojects financed under the Loan have the following
characteristics (Annex 2): (a) almost half of all subprojects financed large
enterprises with annual sales above $5 million; (b) subprojects were
relatively small, with about 73 percent of all subprojects having a cost of
between $0.1 million and $2.0 million; (c) subloan size was concentrated (82Z)
on amounts between $0.05 million and $2.0 million. According to the scant
information provided by NAFIN (Annex 7), subprojects are relatively evenly
spread over seven industrial subsectors, with some concentration on chemicals,
auto parts, capital goods and textiles. Information on the regional
distribution of subprojects was not provided.
1.6.3       The subproject appraisal reports estimated that 86 percent of all
subprojects could be expected to generate internal financial rates of return
(FRR) above 15 percent, and 62 percent to have rates above 25 percent. Only
14 percent of subprojects were expected to have rates of less than 15 percent
but above the 10 percent cutoff (Annex 3). The ex-ante economic rates of
return (ERR) were structured similarly to the FRR. Since the FRRs and ERRs of
subprojects, as well as the results listed in para. 1.6.2, were not estimated
at the time the project was prepared or amended, a comparison between
appraisal and actual project results is not possible. Besides, the above
information on FRRs and ERRs is very unreliable, due to weak subproject
appraisal procedures, and not an acceptable indicator of actual project
results. Therefore, the Bank proposed that NAFIN conduct, for the PCR, a
special ex-post review of a representative sample of subloans. Only 10
subprojects were subjected to the calculation of ex-post FRR and ERR by NAFIN.
Of this small group of subprojects only four achieved FRR and ERR of above 10
percent. The other six subprojects had either negative or below 10 percent
rates of return. In at least two of these six cases, it is too early to draw
any conclusions concerning subproject viability, since investments were made
recently and are not yet showing their full impact. NAFIN mentions marketing
problems as the main reason for low returns in all other cases and states that
project sponsors are trying to address this issue by expanding their business
into foreign markets. A more detailed discussion of the results of the sample
evaluation is given in Annex 8.
1.6.4       The spare data on the condition of NAFIN's loan portfolio (Annex
8) indicate that almost $4.7 million (12Z) of NAFIN's outstanding portfolio of
$39.9 million is classified as in arrears. However, this information does not
offer an adequate basis for assessing the actual situation of NAFIN's second-
tier portfolio, since NAFIN did not systematically collect subproject
performance data.
1.6.5       FONEI maintained a reasonably satisfactory portfolio information
system and from its files was able to provide partial information on the ex-
post status of its second tier portfolio of 31 sublrans (16Z of total - Annex
5). These subloans totaled $13.9 million and supported subprojects that
aggregated $51.2 million in total costs. Most FONEI lending was for the
importation of machinery and equipment and there is some sectoral
concentration on machinery and equipment and metallic products enterprises.



- 9 -
FONEI subloans were distributed by the first tier commercial banks among 13
regions, with some concentration in the State of Mexico (25Z) and in Nuevo
Leon (24%).
1.6.6        FONEI also provided information on the quality of its subloan
portfolio (Annex 5). About 45 percent of its 31 subloans have been fully
repaid and 13 percent were in arrears of between 180 and 270 days. Five of
the 26 subprojects were reported to have failed outright while 8 other
subprojects are classified as operating with difficulties. On the basis of
project performance data collected by FONEI it is reasonable to conclude that
at least 50 percent of FONEI's second tier operations is suffering from low or
negative returns.
1.6.7       Conclusions.  As follows from the above, the project did not
achieve its original objectives. The amount and number of subloans granted to
CGI represented only about 12 - 15 percent and 25 percent of the total,
respectively (Annex 4). Equity financing reached only one third of the
planned amount, and the project did not have the intended institution-building
impact, since only a small part of the technical assistance and complementary
measures was implemented and, in addition, was implemented too late to benefit
the project (studies on capital goods production capacities and training
facilities). The latter undoubtedly influenced the outcome of the project.
In particular NAFIN should have benefitted from technical assistance in the
preparation, promotion and evaluation of projects. The most important factors
explaining the non-achievement of the original project objectives are, as
discussed above, the economic downturn which dramatically affected CGI
investment demand and, to a much smaller extent, the lack of effective project
promotion and coordination by NAFIN/COCOFIN.
1.6.8       The changed economic situation required and justified drastic
modifications of the project that had been designed in a relatively stable
environment. After the Loan had been turned into a general purpose type
credit line and the objective of the project had been changed implicitly from
the promotion of CGI, mainly through fixed investment financing, to the
promotion of industrial enterprises through fixed investment and working
capital financing, the remaining 60 percent of the Loan were committed within
two years, thus aiding the country's balance of payments and providing funds
for improved capacity utilization and restructuring. Based on the above
presented partial evidence provided by NAFIN and FONDEI, a very rough estimate
would indicate that at the time the assessment was made, as many as 50 percent
of all subprojects may have had achieved lower than expected financial and
economic results and that in many cases these results may have been below the
opportunity cost of capital. However, considering that the assessment was
made only 12 - 15 months after the bulk of disbursements/investments was made
and that at this time the Mexican industry was undergoing a process of
adjustment, it would be difficult to draw any final conclusions from this
estimate.
1.7         Proiect Substainability.
1.7.1       Since NAFIN did not carry out a meaningful ex-post evaluation of
subprojects, the actual economic and financial benefits of the subprojects and
their substainability could not be quantified by the project completion
mission. In addition, information on the composition and quality of the



- 10 -
loan/investment portfolio and the subprojects, though repeatedly requested was
made available in part only (Annex 5 and 8, page 4). In spite of the lack of
data, the provision of foreign exchange for the financing of working capital
and modernization investments of mostly existing companies that were operating
well below capacity, leads us to infer that the project has helped a large
number of enterprises to prepare themselves for and pass through the critical
stage of transition from a widely controlled and protected to a more liberal
economy. Whether these possible positive effects of the project are
sustainable, depends o.a the impact the recent economic liberalization measures
have had on the financed enterprises, which were all established under a
protective import substitution regime. Only a very thorough economic
evaluation of the subprojects, including shadow pricing, could have ensured to
some extent that project results are sustainable under a more liberal regime.
However, NAFIN's economic project evaluation procedures did not provide this
important function (para. 1.9.3).
1.8         Bank Performance
1.8.1       The performance of the Bank through some stages of the project
cycle was hardly adequate. During project preparation, the Bank did not
thoroughly enough investigate Mexico's competitive advantages for CGI
development and relied on reports which omitted to assess existing CGI
production capacities. Moreover, it was unrealistic to expect substantial
private sector investments in an inward-oriented industry - export
possibilities were not considered - with public enterprises, which
traditionally had been capital goods importers, representing more than 50
percent of the GCI market, especially when the economy was experiencing the
beginning of a trade liberalization drive. These factors might have escaped
attention during appraisal, given the lack of substantive involvement of
prospective investors in the preparation of the project. Regarding the timing
of the operation, the SAR significantly underestimated the downside risks of
the negative impacts of an economic slowdown on CGI investment demand. The
recommendations of the NAFIN-UNIDO study, though questioned for excessive
generality in Bank internal memoranda, did not trigger further economic and
sector analysis during project preparation.
1.8.2       During Loan implementation, the Bank hesitated in introducing
profound design changes or to cancel the Loan, although this latter
possibility was discussed with the Borrower. Also a straight-forwardly
transformation of the project into a balance of payments support operation was
not 3eriously considered. Instead, the Bank started a "trial and error"
process of adjustments to eligibility criteria, and it was not until 1986 that
it concentrated on the real problem affecting the industrial sector - the
overall shortage of foreign exchange working capital. The Bank's perception
of the depth and duration of the economic downturn was continuously
overshadowed by positive expectations of an upturn, leading to a process of
continuous revisions and extensions of commitment and closing dates
(Attachments D and B).
1.8.3       Bank performance in supervising the Loan was not effective until
more recent stages of Loan implementation - 1987 onwards (para. 1.9.3).
Project monitoring was affected by continuous staff changes and infrequent
supervision missions (Attachment E). On the other hand, as early as 1984,
supervision missions discussed the possibility of Loan cancellation and



- 11 -
informed management that intensive supervision was needed. The signals given
by the mission were not clearly enough transmitted to the Mexican authorities.
Later, most of the substantial changes were made without any serious checking
in the field. No intensive supervision mission was undertaken until June 1987
(the 1985 mission report concentrated exclusively on formal matters, audits,
etc.), and even after this date, Bank management was not assertive enough in
insisting on improvements in all stages of the project cycle. Given Mexico's
foreign exchange problems in the mid-1980s, resource transfer seemed to have
become the main objective of the project. As a consequence, preemptive
actions were precluded, explaining the 'distress management" approach during
project implementation. A good opportunity was foregone to support major
institutional improvements in NAFIN, thus helping the institution prepare for
future activities.
1.8.4       The lessons that may be learned from the experience gained during
preparation and implementation of this project are that: (a) the Bank should
closely assess and monitor the linkages between a proposed operation and the
economic situation and prospects in the host country when timing operations
and not hesitate to reappraise and modify or cancel projects, even in a very
late stage of project preparation, if there is a basic change in the
assumptions (e.g. on future economic developments) underlying the project
design; (b) particularly for projects that experience implementation problems,
project supervision should be more frequent and intensive; (c) the Bank should
act more assertively on weaknesses in project implementation reported by
supervision missions; (d) clear operating policies and institutional
responsibilities for project implementation should be agreed upon at loan
negotiations; and (e) the credit line approach for the financing of larger
subprojects and subprojects with long gestation periods, such as CGI
subprojects, could substantially benefit from the pre-identification and pre-
appraisal of subprojects, i.e. from the preparation of a pipeline of promising
subprojects covering a reasonable initial period of project implementation.
If this approach had been chosen, as initially intended (para. 1.4.3), many
difficulties actually experienced during later stages in the project cycle,
e.g. the lack of demand for CGI financing, could have been detected and dealt
with during project preparation.
1.9         Borrower Performance
1.9.1       The performance of the Borrower was also inadequate.  NAFIN shared
with the Bank the responsibility for the actions taken throughout the project
cycle that affected the execution and results of the operation. For example,
following a proposal by the Bank in May 1984, the Government decided not to
cancel the Loan. The lack of clear lines of responsibility, overlapping
institutional jurisdictions, a series of misunderstandings on project
guidelines during project preparation and implementation, and NAFIN's
insufficient experience with and commitment to a second-tier role, seriously
affected the management of the operation.
1.9.2       The institutional project organization did not come up to
performing the required level of coordination and decision making on policy,
financial and technical issues. COCOFIN delegated its functions to a working
level committee without the required decision making authority to expedite
solutions. Operational misunderstandings with implementing agencies triggered
a lack of interest in the Loan by participating agencies. FONEI, after having



- 12 -
successfully committed Loan funds in the amount of US$14 million in less than
one year (Attachment G), decided not to participate further in the Program.
Promotion of the Program (Annex 6) was not a priority for NAFIN, although
several supervision missions had requested improvements in this area. Though
promotion activities started in 1986, it was not until 1987 that a more
effective promotion unit was created in NAFIN.
1.9.3       NAFIN's lack of experience and the absence of an established
network of banking relationships with prospective financial intermediaries to
act as a first-tier institution, coupled with inefficiencies in NAFIN's own
first-tier activities, rated its performance quite low. NAFIN had full
responsibility for the execution of the project, but during the initial years
did not make major efforts to implement it. The change in project design
during preparation, compounded by the lack of CGI investment demand, slowed
down the "institutional momentum" of the Program. Finally, while the speed of
Loan utilization improved after the amendments of 1986, the quality of NAFIN's
project appraisal and supervision work remained very weak. In too many cases
the Bank had to ask for additional information during subproject review and
this, as well as the cancellation of many approved subprojects, requiring the
appraisal by NAFIN and approval by the Bank of replacement subprojects,
continued to delay Loan utilization until May 1989. The impression prevailed
that NAFIN's project analysis department was not convinced of the value of
project appraisal and supervision methods as management tools needed to avoid
resource misallocation in a heavily distorted economic environment, but
considered them a requirement of the Bank, necessary to comply with in order
to trigger disbu-sements. Consequently, subproject evaluations were carried
out in a mechanical fashion without a serious effort to promote economically
sound projects. The mid-1987 supervision mission addressed the low quality of
NAFIN's subproject appraisal and supervision and the inadequacy of the
internal information system. It strongly recommended a training program to
upgrade NAFIN's capabilities in project cycle activities. Thereafter, some
progress was made, above all, subproject promotion and supervision became more
frequent (Annexes 6 and 7). However, serious drawbacks remained in NAFIN's
project evaluation and portfolio monitoring capabilities.
1.9.4       The lessons of experience for NAFIN are similar to those indicated
for Bank management. Besides, NAFIN, which in the future will act exclusively
as a second-tier institution, would be well advised to develop intensive
supervision and information services, to upgrade its project evaluation
capabilities, and to instill among first-tier financial institutions through
which it operates a deep sense of the value of these management tools.
1.10        Proiect Relationships
1.10.1      As discussed in para. 1.8.3, the main weakness of 3ank-Borrower
relationships was the failure of the Bank to forcefully impress on the
Borrower at an early stage its concerns about the low quality and efficiency
of NAFIN's project cycle activities and the failure of NAFIN to respond
assertively to the (admittedly weak) signals received from the Bank. Had the
Bank been more determined in this respect, and had NAFIN been more receptive
of the need ior adjustments, the project could probably have contributed to
making significantly more progress in these areas, although at the cost of
further delays in project implementation.



- 13 -
1.10.2      The Bank's relationships with F'ONEI were significantly better,
since FONEI's project evaluation and supervision capabilities were relatively
well developed.  However, a weakness in the Bank's lending strategy was that,
although the project relied on FONEI to utilize about 40 percent of the Loan,
it provided competing Loan facilities directly to FONEI, thus weakening
FONEI's interest in the project and reducing its participation in the end to
only 9 percent. Consequently, NAFIN's share in loan utilization more than
doubled from 36 percent to 75 percent, a change in the relative roles for
which NAFIN was not fully prepared. NAFIN's position was further affected, at
least during the initial stages of the project, by the lack of consensus
within the GOM on how to provide support to CGI (paras. 1.4.2 and 1.4.3).
1.11        Consulting Services
1.11.1      The Complementary Activities component (para. 1.3.2, b) used only
US$0.25 million of the US$1 million allocated for two surveys on production
and training facilities capacities, plus a study of the Mexican financial
sector not initially considered. The rest of the complementary activities,
including training for the staff of enterprises and of participating financial
institutions, the establishment of a mechanism to resolve technical issues
affecting the subsector and improvement of the information dissemination
system for the subsector, were not executed. During the last Bank supervision
mission, INFOTEC, the autonomous tec'.nological information consulting trust,
could not explain why they did not participate in any capital goods related
consulting work, as originally planned.
1.12        Proiect Documentation and Data
1.12.1      The many amendments to the legal agreements made it soon difficult
to have an overview of all the relevant loan provisions. Although some
efforts were made by NAFIN and the Bank to consolidate the amendments in a new
legal document for easy reference, the fact that a consolidated document was
not prepared, remained a serious weakness. Also, the Staff Appraisal Report
lost its value as a framework and guideline for project implementation, due to
the total change in project design.
1.12.2      As mentioned before, only a very small part of the usually
required data for the preparation of a PCR was readily available at NAFIN.
Above all, no comprehensive ex-post documentation on the financial and
economic impacts of the financed subprojects and no complete information on
the status of the loan/investment portfolio was made available to the PCR
mission. A lessorn for similar projects with second-tier mechanisms is that in
addition to the supervision of their subprojects, the participating
institutions themselves should be subjected to close monitoring by the second-
tier institutions, including a regular review of their portfolios. Similarly,
the participation of any financial institution in the project should be
clearly conditioned upon Bank receipt of appropriate assurances of each
participating institution's compliance with banking regulations regarding
operating policies and procedures, financial condition and management and the
quality and condition of external audits.
1.12.3      The audit reports from NAFIN and FONEI were generally received on
time and in an acceptable form. Statements of Expenditures of NAFIN, FONEI
and FOMEX/PROFIDE were backed by the required documentation supporting



- 14 -
disbursements. Supervision missions had made recommendations for improving
NAFIN's internal disbursement control procedures which were adequately
adopted. A review of selected subprojects concluded that they complied with
the administrative standard procedures in terms of supporting documentation.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE*
2.1         Comments on Part I
Economic Environment
2.1.1       In the 1970s, national and international conditions in which the
project was set up were characterized by apparent stability and real growth in
the economy. Credit flowed into the country as the supply of funds grew in
international financial markets. It should be recalled that the decade was
marked by an unprecedented supply of credit to developing countries. The
lower cost of external credit and the ease in obtaining it led Mexico to
assume that it would have the financing to support the changes the country
needed to continue the national economy's development pattern that had been
followed up to then. It seemed that funds (which domestic savings had failed
to generate) were now available to be dedicated to meeting demands for the
people's welfare and to reorient the industrial baee toward an increasingly
crowded and competitive international market. However, by the end of the
1970s, financial imbalances in the industrialized countries resulted in
pressure to take radical measures to adjust their economies. As iong as they
failed to restore their financial balance, the threat of recession remained
latent. In that context and after analyzing deficiencies in the capital goods
sector, Mexico went to the World Bank to seek financing for a project to
develop this sector.
2.1.2       The early 1980s were marked by two events:  a drop in
i.iternational oil prices and rises in international rates of interest. The
consequences of this situation directly, but to differing degrees, affected
developing economies. On one hand, countries whose projections of available
revenues relied on petroleum sales saw their plans go up in smoke when their
income fell drastically. On the other hand, the countries that were receiving
foreign credit experienced an unexpected increase in the flight of their
currencies, due to rising interest rates.   These events affected the Mexican
economy during th.L decade to such an extent that the need to apply austere
adjustments to public financing had repercussions in every sphere. As
resources dried up, adjustments in general and sectoral plans were directed
toward maintaining the productive base and employment. The project financed
with Loan 2142-ME could not escape these facts.
2.1.3       The decline in foreign exchange revenues from loans and oil
exports, together with the growing exit of funds due to debt service,
triggered structural adjustments in the economy. Faced with the magnitude of
the economic events of the 1980s, public expenditures in investment were
practically stopped, in turn constraining private investment, and especially
in the capital goods sector, an industry that directs a large portion of its
output to public enterprises. Thus, in view of the significant need to
reorient other sectors and to keep them operating, the possibility of
broadening the utilization of Loan 2142-ME was considered.
2.1.4       Substantial modification of the original objective of the project
arose from the broadened utilization of Loan funds. Specifically, beginning
in 1983, the objective was altered by orienting funds toward industries
*Notes Part II and Annex 8 were prepared by NAFIN and submitted as a
single report in Spanish, a copy of which is in the project file.



- 16 -
pursuing the following objectives: (a) modernization of productive
processes; (b) technology assimilation and/or development; (c) generation
and/or maintenance of employment; (d) direct or indirect exports; and (e)
training for staff, technicians, or laborers. It should be noted that these
changes did not mean that the original objective was eliminated. Given the
fact that domestic demand for capital goods was curtailed and international
markets implemented protective measures (paragraph 1), it became inadequate to
offer financing solely to the capital goods sector. However, we continued to
offer support to the capital goods industry with funds from Loan 2142-ME.
2.1.5       In view of this situation, it became practically impossible to
attain the objective that had been projected in a stable economy. The loan
was modified precisely because the assumptions under which the project was
structured underwent changes that were beyond the scope of project
implementation. Accordingly, project evaluation should be carried out taking
into consideration the achievements attained with regard to both the projected
objectives and the unplanned objectives. Even at a point when the original
project might have been canceled, circumstances in the national and
international economic environment in the 1980s justified applying resources
to alternative projects (paragraph 2.1.4).
2.1.6       The solidity and consistency of the capital goods development
project are demonstrated by the seriousness of the study carried out by the
United Nations Industrial Development Organizat Lon (UNIDO) that was sponsored
by NAFIN, identification of the problems in the capital goods sector in
Mexico, and the plan to promote and implement the Program to support this
sector. However, it is important to point out that the Program, which is a
pioneer of this type, revealed defects that are characteristic of a developing
economy. For this reason it is indispensable to view the project's
development in a context of unpredictable changes and dynamic and
interdependent economies. For this reason, the causes and defects of the
project, some of which are apparent and others real, were not the sole result
of its implementation; rather, changing conditions in the environment played a
decisive role. However, both the World Bank and NAFIN should acknowledge the
rigidity of administrative structures in scenarios such as those that occurred
during implementation of the project. In the final analysis, the changes made
in the original project had results that were advantageous for the country and
NAFIN (paragraph 2.3.1).
2.2         Bank Performance
2.2.1       Changes in the original project were justified by clearly changed
circumstances. Through its consent, the Bank always supported these changes,
even though the rapidity of these changes, and the impossibility of foreseeing
their results in an economy beset by structural deficiencies and financial
difficulties, to some extent hindered quick disbursement of loans. Likewise,
the untimely Mexican economic recession perhaps prevented a more thorough
analysis of the consequences that canceling both the project and the Loan
would have had on the economy.
2.2.2       It is clear that Loan 2142-ME quickly adapted to the new
circumst-l.ces; agreements between the Bank and NAFIN were always aimed at this
purpose. The project was altered so that it could provide support to



- 17 -
subprojects of companies requesting funds in the face of the country's
economic situation that made it impossible for them to generate surpluses, not
only for fixed capital formation, but also for formation of working capital.
The Bank's authorizations for project adjustment brought about favorable
results by contributing to the operation of 191 subprojects and by maintaining
sources of employment, not considering the catalytic effect that these
investments had on the rest of the economy.
2.2.3       In this regard it should be noted that also the underutilization
of the Loan categories for risk capital and technical assistance was endorsed
by the Bank in view of the events occurring in the economy.
2.2.4       In view of this scenario, the Bank did not fail, because
objectives not foreseen in the original project were attained. However,
closer supervision of the Loan and communication with NAFIN would have allkwed
the Bank to more deeply understand the reasons for modifying the original
project, as well as the reorientation given to the project, the immediate
objectives for the national economy, and the need for funds which the country
was faced with following the situation of the late 1970s, when it was
receiving more resources from oil exports and loans in a few months than it
had received for decades.8
2.2.5       Perhaps an understanding of these factors would have led the Bank
to review its information systems and establish an exchange of information
with borrowers, while also maintaining a closer relationship with organi-
zations whose funct4on is related with the implementation of projects.
2.3         Borrower Performance
2.3.1       NAFIN's participation in this project respor,ded to two situations:
(a) an external situation created by an uncertain economic environment,
shortages of liquid funds, volatility in thE foreign exchange markets, and
increases in domestic prices and foreign interest rates, and (b) given the
functions performed up to that time by NAFIN, it was unable to achieve the
optimal level of efficiency in second-tier operations.
2.3.2       NAFIN's organization attempted to structure its functions as a
first- and second-tier institution. The experience obtained from this would
allow it to restructure NAFIN in 1989 and reorient its activities toward those
characteristic of a development financing institution.
2.3.3       The external factor (para. 2.3.1) played a decisive role.  NAFIN
had to make fast adjustments to entirely unexpected circumstances. Faced with
this situation, analysis and evaluation of subprojects also had to be fitted
to that reality, and the original project objective was adjusted in accordance
with the critical situation thet was besetting the country. The subprojects
felt the effects of this situation. Therefore, strict and rigid analysis of
the subprojects in a distorted economic environment would merely have led to
the funds' not being disbursed. This would have been an obstacle to NAFIN's
8/ Bank staff believes that the reasons for modifying the project were
well understood, but that closer supervision would have been needed to ensure
improvements in all activities during the project cycle (para. 1.8.3).



- 18 -
role as a development baink. On this point, NAFIN's performance should be
analyzed from the standpoint of its role as a development bank, since the
financing granted under Loan 2142-ME made it possible for the companies that
were facing liquidity problems -- due to a distorted economic environment and
great uncertainty in the economy -- to be able to withstand the consequences
of such an environment. From this perspective, NAFIN's ctions satisfied: (a)
the project's objective (paragraph 2.2.1) and (b) its objective as a
development financing institution. These are objectives which must be
simultaneously fulfilled.9
2.3.4       The efforts of COCOFIN demonstrated, during its nine meetings,
this contractual obligation. During the meetings, the Committee dealt with
aspects of Loan 2142-ME, such as the definition of the mechanisms for
operation of the Program, financial support, analysis of preliminary reports,
and taking decisions concerning disposition of funds.
2.3.5       With respect to the supervision of subprojects, a special unit was
created for the following purpose: to supervise and monitor appli-ation of
the Loan and the development of the project. However, outside conditions
(paragraph 2.3.1) obliged public enterprises to curtail their structures and
to cut spending. NAFIN could not avoid this situation, which impeded
strengthening the supervision function so that it could carry out ex-post
evaluation as an implicit function in monitoring the Loan. For this purpose,
NAFIN's re-structuring and its reorientation as a second-tier institution
within the framework of modernization of the Mexican financial system allows
us to have a management system dedicated to evaluating the results of the
programs implemented by NAFIN. In this regard, it will be necessary to
establish effective channels of communication with the Bank in order to guide
efforts toward achieving ex-post evaluation objectives in accordance with the
Bank's requirements.
2.3.6       The evaluation of ten subprojects, showed that the investments
were made in accordance with the program. Problems were revealed in the
operation of five subprojects, primarily due to two causes: (a) contraction
of demand and (b) loan collection from customers. With regard to the latter
aspect, it should be underscored that the companies we analyzed were primarily
faced with this problem in relation to public enterprises.
2.3.7       It should be noted that this sample is not representative and, as
a result, it would be inappropriate to draw any generalizations from it.
Accordingly, the conclusions should not be extended to the rest of the
subprojects. However, based on visits to the subprojects and subsequent
analysis of information provided by the firms, it was shown that utilization
of investments resulted in generation of 718 jobs, that is, 99 percent of the
number projected, and that the average amount of investment per job was $12
million current pesos. Also, the average production was at 64 percent of the
targeted capacity . The majority of the technology used in the manufacturing
processes is of foreign origin, with emphasis on the process of technology
9/  In the view of Bank staff, ca,eful project evaluation (especially
detailed risk analysis) is even more important in a distorted economic
environment, both to preserve the assets of the development bank and to protect
investors.



- 19 -
assimilation and implementation of specific areas of development or
maintenance of technology.
2.3.8       Of the 10 loans analyzed, only five loans are still outstanding,
one was paid off in accordance with the loan agreement and the remaining four
were repaid in advance.
2.3.9       Moreover, our first experience with this activity has been gained,
allowing us to try out (new) forms and the methods especially developed for
this (loan) purpose. In this regard, we shall request from the Bank its
advice concerning establishment of the operating system and its orientation
toward the requirements established by the loan agreements, in an attempt to
streamline and make more efficient our ex-post evaluation activities, in such
manner that satisfactory results can be obtained, in terms of quality and
cost, for both NAFIN and the Bank.
2.3.10      Economic and financial information on the subprojects, as well as
the current status of the Loan portfolio as of December 31, 1990, are detailed
in the document titled "Economic and Financial Review of Loan 2142-ME" (Annex
8).
2.4         Lessons Learned
2.4.1       The lessons learned from this project for both the Bank and NAFIN
are:
(a) greater involvement of the Bank is needed in projects where
delays are detected in implementation and operation,
(b) information systems of both parties should be appropriately
modified,
(c) it should be easier to make necessary adjustments in
projects,
(d) NAFIN should establish an ex-post evaluation unit (paragraph
2.3.1),
(e) excessive amounts of information should not be required,
because time periods for compliance are short and we lack
legal backing to require information from companies once the
contractual obligations are completed,10
(f) NAFIN should establish an integrated information system in
order to have appropriate and timely information concerning
subprojects and in order to implement appropriate mechanisms
10/   Bank staff believes that NAFIN's relative inexperience in project
appraisal techniques caused the impression in NAFIN that the Bank's insistence
on solid project appraisals was excessive. However, the stricter review of loan
applications suggested by NAFIN itself (point g of this para.) would require a
satisfactory analysis of areas such as marketing, financial and economic
viability, without which subprojects should not be approved.



- 20 -
to require the companies to provide information even though
the contractual obligazion has ended,
(g) an ex-ante evaluation office should be convinced of the need
to carry out stricter review of loan applications in order to
avoid improper allocation of funds to companies that have
alternative sources of financing, and
(h) channels of communication linking the specialized technical
areas of both institutions should be strengthened.11
1l/ Bank staff feels that the channels of communication were open and
uncomplicated but that project implementation would have benefitted from more
frequent supervision missions.



- 21 -
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA



- 23 -
Attachment A
PROJECT COV LETIOW REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL 0ooos INDUSTRIES DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-YCE
Prolect Costs and Flnancing Plan
(millions US$ equivalent)
Copmeientary
materrol resources                         Othr e*xternal
insluding bilatorol                           reaourceee
expert credito a    Local reooureee b             for ein
asI;*" eredita        Local    Local               orIvat,
world      rald through      private finencial   Foreign  benak  A
Sank      Principal ipls-   secter       Inotl-    callob-   other    Total
Subprogram              fiaessa g   *s i log ap     " too  sponars   tutionaC   orators  sourcee   cost
Eatimated at AoroloaoI
Flied inveateont
credits                 181.0          180.0            *.9       139.0       *.9     s6.9       4709.
Credits for
peransent
working capital           *.6            6.0             6.9      120.0       9.6    I". 6       22060
Equity Investments        17.6           17. O110.1 o.od                      42.6 O     06       193.0
Sales financing            O.6 O.9                        _.o      2so.0       o.6      8.6       250.6
Subloan*                  147.?           147.8          116.O      SO0.O      43.0 1O 9.6       1,133.e
Technicalel *ooitnce
A complementary
_eauroe                   3.6            6.6             4.8        $.6f      *.*      0.6        12.6
Front and loan feo                                        6.6_I.-              6. *O6               2.3
162.3          147.0          114.0      511.1      43.0    166.6    1,147.3
Actual
Flied invaatmant
credits                1i0. 9            *. O.O                    1S.O       6.O O     .S       119.7
Credl^ for
IV * ' .4nt
working Capitol          29.6             0.6            6.9       4.9. *.0            *.         61.S
Espert finatning          22.0             6.9            6.6        6.6 *.0            6.6        22.6
Equity lvoweteato          5.9            0.0             6.6        6.6       9.9      0.0         5.6
Sales financing            .6-             L1             6.6        W6.       9.6O     L0          6.6
Subloame                  14.7?             6.6            6.6       59.7       6.0      9.9       209.4
Technleal aooletanco
a complementary
e"8mur                    6.3             6.1            6.9        6.7       6.6      9.6         1.6
fee" _* loan ft              2 e e    *6                                       1 0 * i              1.
12.32            6.6            6.8       6.4        9.6       6.6      212.79
Soureest Eoatimated-onk Staff Appraisal Reperti actual--NAFIN, adjusted by Ienk.(ele saee    below)
/  Indicative eatimto  booed so prier io   periopnr   taking accee  t of likely ehanges.
/ Figure. Inelude any lecel currency contributioen  by the principal  mplemseting agenclee to we  ea
other inte_dlery beaks.
Figura  Iinclude any local ecerency eontrIbutena by the princlpal imple_  tIng  pr.ei.a so veol ae
ether Interediery bonks.
g/ Local currency centributiene by NAFINSA and MI3OMix.
I/ ncludes USS201.O  illion equlvalent financed threh.t..a F OWEX  yate.. and WUs36O. millien provided
by project epone"re.
V   Includes USS2.S million of budgptery reeeurces allocated directly to the progrsa fer Implementing
prepoe-d cemplementery macurea and USt2.S million of locel resources to be providd through FONES
for flinncing technicel asalatance subloans and risk-shring program fer technology development.
3/ The lank ceneld e thse. total cost figure unrellable.



NMt FV                   AO4
"WSW            moodd dS   ctanl
-^-w-8wsr                                         *   _       _.,.1t.@@      _       t_l~~~~~~~~*llst.
ONmn -             I      "  um  I
hI.  Tm                                                                                      e~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s/ls3  U5.1    S   (15  1586  34.
cm
12131/"      .e   is-$       -      -    ' 
343M/0  Sew.  &W oseessansdfls, fee solhifells  of 81COlD  for I ew tde  aeeps Is *spFOa  pof U.   Igve a.                1a/ss        11     es       1       0  1
o PIc/3t    38.8   3.1 r        .   .2  34.6
FM
09D/U/S     n.e   a3.8       .   82.  34.6
12/PSO  Me soest eu   csIrIm"     *da  of 11 f   km _ t                4w" s*esF "  * lot. r ut  I(O     hlsew    h"j nsessss  3as/Se    3.9  18.2  SIC      4.  36.3
3m.s4 slle * f bsmo  o-Aese   aleopea. rI-t Dnastde .f3e  fe1e.  S12m3e wne1l  e4pls         jt3                                                24.0  30.3
311 sl   moftds _ssg  terw e pel.dpDt                                                                             0//3       36.9  49.5   0.8   20.0  5 5.
EM
11111m0  Ull       _1VO.se, rp lseeOs sae. ..l ceases  e steemSas... e to _s*  re (c6ns) /u.ction1sefforts  09 s/3c.      6eS00/64    1ALS   02.0  128.3   de.? 10.0
12/21/8o  la  ss bmis for    slesh of as fe esv         lt Use do llass.                                                  32132104   330.3  12.4  14.3  34.9  U.&
32/38/46 laspe, of "aet of e|_sst asds *J        le  eoIdae  mU * _63/6 _o    2.                                          63/35/US 3W.8 6"2.0  30.3   34.0  38.0
25/33/U  baa mUm of fssde ewe gel.ww as.Inealso.                                                              0e,aota    ISO.$  62.0   308        .9 n2.e
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~a/19''"9w-1Xv p141s   M                          09.                  84. 1 
0f lbs b.s f sometimesls o sees f  sp sdeess t  te 1Ss31/3                                                                   4      93.4           49.. 3*.5
t3/12/U  Saos of peeee _ad hfla le Ssuwee. psems       to s s -s pietoseraseal f*so1582  *r_ asport15860  Sa  .133/U                    ..0 38.11011
bentwss n sIllbIp" la oeSS asssolspeSaustlaesell                                                                 0/30/36    31.   93.         *   40.9  441.0
EN
Olin/0        ,      .       -      .9 UA
32/531M   PSeonssst et _ eas          *_el. feas,   yea  w    //     Ada           rt. e12131'    .    5.0                                            -    r.  87.4
N/U/VW  8eiw  of IeWS t or~f  owl le ation fo dSse.Sfs. slscpelein        ROD 4on lae.   asSlap  teeuasseltoe a eAr6ot     3/31/3?                     -   594.5 810.3
Ar           p       of assss a saws     pemllas.                                                                         06/3? -               -      -   61.1  44.3
_5  _                                                                                                           00_/2,8/3? _1_.  exp r  -  -  -   6r.r 13.2
n2/10/1  Isgbi p*sspaS et eleslant da.t fee pi seset 12//UOmps                    f      sr                               31313                        - -0.1 "6.3
n50/  Wlvssr of tas  he   Ole  fs o sl as fee  _ea se limetod  spa    D             s.  a cs h 3                         0e31.  /        .      -      .  304.3  U.
S/OS/   Oslmles  f fais-   g_ _ _. esmpsaes                                                                              06*03           -   *             383.3 3.5
DR                                                       (
09/30/U        _      -      -   42.9 03.0              r
ct
it no   rUba_ I WSO"  *_                  s   o 1. based on *1    ersdie            profile for OK projects le eer da, leyo-/3           -      -      - pe 0.s 5n #.             c
23/0/3  Ibie  pesglpasss of egaslas*  dab" fe *si  mile h    0/.                                                         60133/3         -     -   .       380.5 93.0
Scale    of the r        dsp an O3s  t fecosliglbl   l  s te esls*la. he 15 wcteejsel.e.                                  9/30/SO    D , 1 - 1 - " 0   93.0
Lt 1.4 Cor solingeoles of  _Stpv1*e  for DN  f1|sim  MOUND"  8% set "I 1 SA-4va%1 estO4 to Dc*A.r 31. 199, ane_ D-csb# 1 Rle.
Ceelasded Cienteab   at                ineslsel   on-   as lo Owetbss 31. t"lsessA pef 31S. fee   *-An s_ . J  IdU.
*/ Sfe.fre  sssael of 4/7U eleled *  st_.



- 25 -
Attachment C
Ph)JECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                   Apraisala                       Actual
& quarter ending              uSn     I m Tion             uso million
FY83
=ecember 31  1982                   2.3        1.5
March 31, 1683                   6.8         4.8
June 30, 1983                   13.3         8.7             22.2        14.6
FY84
=eptember 30, 1983                23.3        15.3              22.2        14.6
December 31, 1983               35.3        23.2             24.8        16.3
March 31, 1984                  50.3        30.0              24.8        16.3
June 30, 1984                   66.3        43.5             29.0        19.0
FY85
=eptember 30, 1984                88.3        58.0              29.0        19.0
December 31, 1984              110.3        72.4              34.9       22.9
March 31, 1985                 126.3        82.9              34.9       22.9
June 30, 1985                  135.3        88.8              40.2       26.4
FY86
=eptember 30, 198               141.3        92.8              48.7        32.0
December 31, 1985              145.3        95.4             49.5        32.5
March 31, 1986                 148.3        97.4              49.9        32.8
June 30, 1986                  150.3        98.7             49.9        32.8
FY87
September 30, 1986               151.3        99.3              52.8        34.'
December 31, 1986C             152.3                         57.0        37.4
March 31, 1987                                                59.5        39.1
June 30, 1987                                                67.7        44.5
FY88
=eSptember 30, 1987                                             81.5        53.5
December 31, 1987                                            93.1        61.1
March 31, 1988                                               104.3        68.5
June 30, 1988                                               131.8        86.5
FY89
=eptember 30, 1988                                             142.9        93.8
December 31  1988                                           150.5         98.9
March 31, 1689                                               150.5        98.9
June 30, 1989                                               150.5        98.9
FY90
=uly 31, 1989                                                  152.3       100.0
a/  The schedule of estimated disbursement is based on the average
-   disbursement profile for DFC projects in LCP during 1970-80, modified
in later years on the basis of the experience with recent FONEI loans
to Mexico, which represent the disbursement experience most directly
comparable to that under the proposed project.
b/  Last date for submiss.on of subprojects for Bank financing estimated at
appraisal.  Subsequen 'y extended to December 31, 1987, and
December 31, 1988.
cl Closing date estimated at appraisal. Subsequently extended to
Decc:nber 31, 1987, December 31, 1988 and June 30, 1989..



- 26 -
Attachment D
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in US$M[)
LOAN POSITION
As of 05/31/90
Or$ignal   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaida  Outstandina
152.3      152.3          -         63.4      88.9
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY83  FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
(1)  Planned           13.3  66.3  135.3  150.3  152.3        -      -       -
(2)  Actual            22.2  29.0   40.2   49.9   67.7  131.8  150.5  152.3
(3)  (2) as 2 of (1)    OX   442    30Z    332    44Z    872    992   1002
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Proiect Timetable
Original date          Actual revised date
Original date
First Mention in Files                                    03/27/77
Government's Application                                    02/79
Negotiations                                                04182
Board Approval                                            05/13/82
Loan Signing                                              09/05182
Effectiveness                       08182                 03/07/83
Final Commitment                 12/31/85                 06/30/88
Closing Date                     12/31/86                 06/30/89
Borrowers NAFIN
Executing Agencies: NAFIN
Guarantors United Mexican States
Entrusted Fundss FONEI, PROFIDE and FOMEX
*J  All debt service amounts have been paid in full and there are no
amounts outstanding from prior billing periods.



- 27 -                   Attachment E
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
(Man-weeks)
St age   of     __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
projeet cycl-      75  79  of  $    '2  51 *4   eu    s   so  57   as  *9  90  Total
Identiflcatin    11.5    -   -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  11s
Pr.appra"el       11.4 16.2 4.6    -    -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -  26.2
Appraisl             -    -   - 72.8 4.3   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 116.1
Negotiations              _   _        a..   _    _    ,    _    _    _    _    -   a.
Supervielon          -                          7 -    -    - 6.6 17.4 11.4 21.2 24.3 26.4  S.9  2.3 116.7
Completion                         -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -
Tots,         117   m.u~ ri Yn.ai             nm ri ru  ii   I6n"4R4I
Source:  ISS. June 190 (in P176 man-geeka unavalable fruo HIS but obtained frPo fIles research).
3. Missions
Stage of                       No. rf       No. of       Staff     Date of
project cycle       Month/year      weeke     persons       weeks      report
Identification         07177         2.7         1            2.7       08/77
10/77        3.1          2            6.3      11177
10177        1.6          1            1.6      11177
Preappraisal           01/78         0.4         2            0.9       02/78
06/78        2.3          5           11.4      11178
10/75        2.1          3            6.4      12/78
05/79        3.1          8           25.1      07179
07179        0.6          3            1.7      08179
02/80        0.7          1            0.7      04/80
04/80        2.9          1            2.9     0/80
04/80        0.3          1            0.3      05/80
04180        1.0          1            1.0      05180
05/80        1.6          2            3.1      06/80
06/80        0.7          1            0.7      07/80
Appraisal              07180         0.4          3           1.3       08/c0
10/S0        0.9          1            0.9      10/80
10/80        2.6          5           12.9      11/80
10ol0        0.1          1            0.1      11/80
12/80        1.0          4            4.0      01l8
Negotiations         1981/82           -          -           -
Supervision            08/83         1.4         2            2.9       10/18
11/83        1.4                       1.4      11/83
12/83        0.7          2            1.4      01184
01/84        1.9          2            3.7      02/84
04/84        1.7          S           13,7      06/84
08/85        1.3          2            2.6      10/85
06/87        2.0          2            4.0      06/57
Completion             06/89         2.1         2                      0,   4  06/90
Total                                                  118.0
Sour--- ---e- ---- cesOO 0.                   .     ........ W-C _l-----e.--
Sources LAC fL1es.



Attachment F
- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                        Year of
title            Purpose       approval       Status           Comments
Ln. 1712-ME      To finance         1979    Closed             Amt.-USS125.2 M
Fourth Indus-    efficient                                     Closing date
trial Equipment  projects to                                   extended by two
Fund (FONEI)     have substan-                                 years.  Last
Project          tial economic                                 disbursement
and employment                              made in April
impact  as well                              1987.  US$12.4
as to develop                               million can-
FONEI i.ato an                               celled.
effective
industrial
sector inst-
itution.
Ln. 2746-ME       To improve the    1986    In progress        Amt.-USSl5O.O M
Industrial       quality and                                  Closing date
Recovery         broaden the                                   expires in
Project           scope of finan-                              1992.  Still
cial services                                US$16.0 million
to medium-sized                              undisbursed.
and large pri-
vate industrial
companies.
Ln. 3047-ME       To improve        1989    Not yet signed.  Amt.-US$250.0 M
Industrial       industrial                  Awaiting pend-   Closing date
Restructuring    efficiency and              ing matters.      expires in
Project           to increase                                  1994.
non-oil exports



- 29 -
Attachment G
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Commitments
(In Millions of US Dollars, as of June 31, 1989)
Year    Accumulated
Year                 NAFIN/      FONEI/      FOMEX/       total        total
Comm. Banks  Comm. Banks  PROFIDE
1982                   0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0
1983                   0.0       15.0         0.0          15.0         15.0
1984                   0.0        5.4        26.8          32.2         47.2
1985                  15.7        0.8         0.0          16.6         63.8
1986                   9.1        0.0        (4.2)          4.9         68.7
1987                  53.5       (6.8)        0.0          46.6        115.3
1988                  34.2       (0.1)        0.0          34.1        149.4
1989                   1.0       (0.3)        0.0           0.7        150.1
Subtotal           113.5       14.0        22.6         150.2        150.1
Front-end fee          -          -           -             2.2          2.1
Total           113.5       14.0        22.6         152.3        152.3
note:  Negative figures shown in parentheses above represent net commitment
in certain years, taking into account the effect of cancelling
unused balances of some subprojects.



Annex 1
- 30 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL COODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
DOistribution of Bank Funds
Organizacion     COCOFIN A
SOMEX A       technical
other program   assistance      PROFIDE/
Subprogram                        MAFIW          FONEI       participants     agencies        FOMEX       Total
Estimated *t Appraisal
Front-end loan fee                2.3            0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0          2.3
Fixod Investment credits         42.6           02.5            25.0           0.0           0.0        130.0
Equity Invest wnts               10.0            0.0             7.0           0.0           0.0         17.0
Technical assistance A
complemntary moesures           e.e            2.6             6.8           1.8          6.6           3.0
Total                        64,8           64.5            82.0           1.0         080          152.3
Actual
Front-end loan *ee                2.3 S.o                        o.6           o.o           6.6          2.3
Fixed Investment credits         88.4           12.5             6.6           o.6           o.6        100.9
Equity investments                5.6            o.6             o.o           o.6           6.o          5.6
Technical assistance A
complementary measures          0.8            6.o             o.o           6.6           f.6          6.3
Export financing                  6.o            o.6             6.o           6.o          22.6         22.6
Permanent working capital        19.1            1.5 .6                       6.6           o.e         20.6
Total                       116.7           14.0             o.6           6.o          22.6        152.S
Source:  Actual--NAFIN, adjusted by Bank.



- 31 -
Annex 2
PROJECT COUPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-US)
Breskdown of the Costs A Financine of Technical Assistance
and Other Complomontnry Mossuroe
(Millions US9 Equivalent)
COCOFIN A
technical
Through   assiotence   Project
FONEI     agencies   sponsors    Total
Estimnated
(a) Strengthening of training facilitieo                          0.00        0.60       6.00       0.60
(b) Expanded technological Information A other support
serviceo (including Otechnology Sap' study)                   6.00        1.20       0.00        1.20
(c) Strengthening of Information dissemination systom             0.00        1.20       0.00        1.20
id) Special survoy (inventory of training courseo,
disaggregated analysis of manpower needs of Industry
& special inventory of Installed copaecities)                  0.00       0.60       0.00        0.60
Ce) Financing technical assistance to industries                  2.60        e.60       2.60       6.00
(including subcontractors)
(f) Risk-sharing program for technology development               2.00        0.00       1.60       3.60
Total Technical Assistance                               4.60        3.60       4.00      12.00
(g) (Of which World Bank financing)                               2.00        1.00       0.00       3.00
Actual
(a) Strengthening of training feclitles                           S."         6.00       S.0o       6.00
(b) Expended technological Information A other support
services (including Otechnology gaps study)                   6.60        6.60       6.60       6.00
(c) Strengthening of Information dloseomintlon system             6.66        6.66       o.6        6.60
(d) Special survej (Inventory of training couresu,
disoggregated anelysls of manpower needs of Industry
A special Inventory of Installed capacities)                   6.66       o.66       0.76       0.76
(e) FInancing technical aosistance to industries                  6.eo        6.00       6.6w       6.6
(including subcontractors)
(f) Risk-sharing prooram for technology development               e.00        S.eo       6.00       6.6
Total Technicel Assistance                                 ."        6.o0 6     6.76       0.76
(g) (Of which World Sank financing)                               S.eo        o.e6        .26 *2.26b
Sources:  Estimated--Bank Appraisal Report; actual--NAFIN adjusted by Bank
a/  Includes studies on:  training centers, US86,990; capacity, technology and comparative . antages,
US1145,586; and financial sector, US8103,666.
b/ Portion used out of the original USS260 million allocation.



Annex 3
- 32 -                          Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Characteristics of Subprojects Financed
Number         Percent
A.  Size of Company (Value of sales-US$)
Less than 100,000                                -               -
100,000 to 200,000                                3               2
200,000 to 400,000                                9               7
400,000 to 600,000                                8               6
600,000 to 1,000,000                                 6              4
1,000,000 to 2,000,000                                23             17
2.000,000 to 5,000,000                                25             19
Over 5,000,000                               61             45
Unclassified                               56
Total                             191            100
B.  Size of Proiect Financed (Value
of total project financed-USS)
Less than 50,000                               12              6
50,000 to 100,000                               17              9
100,000 to 200,000                               22             12
200,000 to 400,000                               39             21
400,000 to 600,000                               20             11
600,000 to 1,000,000                               26             14
1,000,000 to 2,000,000                                27             15
2,000,000 to 5,000,000                                14              8
Over 5,000,000                                8              4
Unclassified                                6
Total                             191            100
C. Distribution of Loans Granted
(Value of subloan-US$)
Less than 25,000                                7              4
25,000 to 50,000                               13              7
50,000 to 100,000                               21             11
100,000 to 200,000                               34             18
200,000 to 400,000                               37             20
400,000 to 600,000                               25             13
600,000 to 1,000,000                               16               9
1,000,000 to 2,000,000                                20             11
2,000,000 to 5,000,000                                 7              4
Over 5,000,000                                 .             3
Unclassified                                6
Total                             191            100



33                             Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Number         Percent
D. Terms of Loans
Less than 3 years                                        5              2
3 to 5 years                                            74             39
5 to 7 years                                            72             38
7 to 9 years                                            30             16
Over 9 years                                            10              5
Total                                            191             100
E. Financial Rates of Return (FRR)a
Less than 152                                           27             14
152 to 202                                              19             10
202 to 252                                              27             14
25Z to 302                                              28             15
302 to 402                                              42             22
Over 402                                                48             25
Total                                            191            100
F. Economic Rates of Return (ERR)a
Less than 152                                            6              3
152 to 20Z                                               8              4
202 to 252                                               9              5
252 to 302                                             12               6
302 to 402                                              33             17
Over 402                                              123              65
Total                                            191            100
G. Destination of Sales
Export Direct                                           26             14
Export Indirect                                          5              3
Import Substitution                                     50             26
Combination                                            110             57
191            100
H. TvPe of Enterprise
New                                                     26             14
Expansion                                              165             86
191            100
Source: NAfIN.
Note: The date aro taken from ox-onte subproject evaluation reports.
3/ This lnformation In rot In line with Information actually rocoived by the Bank. The FRR and ERR
have not been calculated for all the subproject*.



- 34-                                   Annex 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPUENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Prolect Investment by Subsector and Benefits
No. of      Aetuaf (US3I'00)
sub-      Proj3et      Subloxn        Employment conerated        Salos (USS'600)
Subsectoro            projects      amount      amount         Actual  Estimated         Actual   Estimated
Chmtca lo/
petrochemicals         34         31,725       22,419          N.A.      5,844          429,800   252,228
Textiles                 20         29,006      19,296           N.A.      4,369           73,473    38,467
Capital goods            47         30,024      19,340           N.A.      8,930          404,643   179,946
Auto parts               20         39,123      20,429           N.A.      8,964           63,991    43,334
Agroindustrlal           26         28,768      18,472           N.A.      2,878          168,792   114,430
Pulp & paper             16         28,860      16,478           N.A.      4,224          161,703   145,596
Construction             11          6,724       4,766           N.A.      3,018           48,953    24,287
Electric/
electronic             20         17,418       8,796           N.A.      4,122           97,118    67,299
Various                   4          16869          e74          N.A.        1S3            4.860      1.625
Total              191       208,995       124,658          N.A.    42,490        1,448,078   867,100
Source: NAFIN.
Note: Theose data are highly unreliable. Actual subloan sm,unts do not add up to the full Loan amount;
actual employment figuros are likely to be very different from estimates and NAFIN has not
explained the origin of actual sales figures, which should not be available to NAFIN, given tho
lack of a subproject Information system.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL COO0S INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
FONEI Loan Portfolio
(as of May 31., 1989)
Oper-                         Enter-
ating                         prisu
Amount     Total                            Employment  below                          oper-
of      invost-  No. of      Sales        genorated  eat.       Ovordue    Enter-  sting
subloan    *met      sub-     (Mbx3 i)         (S      U    cpa-    t     olio   pris.   diffi-
Enterpriso                                    Location    (Mea3 x)  (Meal I)  loans   Eat.    Act    Et.  Act,  city   Dryx   Mt.  failed  culty   Repaid
Aletas y Birlos, S.A. I                     Veracrut           87.6      176.2    1      2,130   1,227    60   37    Yes   186    llb   No          yes    Repaid
Aletas y Birlos, S.A. II                    Verecrut            13.6      20.7    1      2,130   1,227   56   37    yes   180    ll6b   No          yes    Repaid
Blitz, S.A. de C.V. III                       eaxico           70.6 10 8.6    1              -       -      -    -    -       -        -   Y-e      -       Repaid
Colulosa y Papel de Durango, S.A.
de C.V. I                                Durango         2,600.0  11,206.7    1       3,380   6,263   296  356    No       No       -   No       No
Centro Industrial Bioqtu.   , S.A.
de C.V. 1I                                Coahuil          720.0   1,782.3    1    19,471  14,152    s0   67    Yea    No            -   No      No
Cubiertes Metalicas, S.A. de C.V.           Nueye Leon        101.      130.3    1        230     247    13   13    No       No       -   No       No
Dispositivos Mogneticos, S.A.               Mexico            208.0      428.3    1      4,448     187   136  124    Yes   240       47b   No       Yoe    Repaid
EPN Sistes, S.A. de C.Y. 11                 Mexico            100.0      217.5    1      2,826   2,711   2S0   82    No       No       -   No       No      Repaid
EPN Sixtemax, S.A. de C.V. III              Mexlco            327.6      468.0    1     2,820   2,711   260   62    No        No       -   No       No      Repaid
Ferrofix, S.A. de CV.                       Jalisco            22.2      188.6    1      1,069     S78   s6   77    Yes    No          -   No       No
Forgasex, S.A. do C.V.                      Jalisco            34.6       91.0    1      3,346   2,304    78  103    Yes    No         -   No       No
ForJas Metalicas, SA. de C.V. (IMSA)        Nuevo Leon        101.3      309.8    1    11,t63      641    68   22    yes    No         -   yea      yes    Prepaid
Cuimex, SA. III                             Mexico             64.3       91.9    1        176      66      0    0    Yea    No        -   You      Yoe    Repaid
Herramiontas y Triconos, S.A. de C.V. I   Mexico              203.0      467.3    1    44,697   9,296   227  200    Yea    No          -   yes    y's    Prepaid
ierreaientas y Triconos, S.A. de C.V.  I  Mexico              162.2      146.9    1    44,697   9,296       0    0    yes    No        -   yes      Yes    Prepaid
Industrial de Autoport.o, S.A. I            Quereturo         441.3   1,161.7    1      3,244   1,310   167   89    yes    No          -   No       tan    Re-
Industries Castro, S.A. doeC.V.             Coahvile           74.6     1066.     1     1,132   1,616      a    6    yea    No         -   No       You
Industriss Sigm*, S.A. de C.V.             Distrito Fed.    103.6       148.6    1      7,030   2,433      6    0    Yea    No         -   No       No
Industries Vortec, S.A.                    Nuevo Leon          91.4     385.8    1    13,088   7,216    89    0    Yes    No           -   No       yes
Jacutui Univorsal, SA.                      Nuevo Loon         28.8      4060    1    13,369   6,498       0    6    yes    No         -   No       No
Lascasiana, S.A. de C.V.                    San Luis Potosl   69.0      386.6    1      3,647   3,162    52   52    No       No        -   No       No     Repaid
Precitubo, S.A. de C.V. II                  Jalisco           240.0     643.9    1    22,461  29,085    16    0    No        No        -   No       No
Productora Mexicana do Tuberie, S.A.        Michoacan         406.0   6,076.0    1    32,960  21,190   481  416    Yes   270   1,398   No           yes
Tecno Corp., S.A. do C.V. II                Tamaulipas         78.0     111.6    1        966      140     6    6    Y-e    No         -   No       Yes
Tocnologix Mltalica Industrial, S.A. II   Nuevo Leon          186.3     496.2    1      4,041      903    70   62    Yes    No         -   No       'te
Trailers de Montorrey, S.A. I               Nuevo Leon        401.2     673.2    1    35,663  22,445       0    6    yes    No         -   Yes      Yes
Trailers de Monterrey, S.A. 11              Nu-vo Leo.        177.0     640.7    1    36,663  22,446   144   63    Y-e    No           -   Yes      Yste
Transfroe. Parson Peebles do Mexico,
S.A. 1I                                   Cuansjuato        394.0   1,664.6    1    19,626   7,160    27   60   Y'e        No        -   No       NO
Transaiaiones y Equipos Mecanicos, S.A.   Querotaro           441.7     609.6    3    16,130  12,120       0    0    No      No        -   No       No
Xanik, S.A. do C.V. I                       Mexico            166.6      177.3    1     6,9"   4,620       0    0    Yes    No         -   No       No     Repaid
Xanik, S.A. do C.V. II                      Mexico             21.0       306.    1     6,960   4,620      a    6    Yes    No         -   No       No      Repaid
Source: FONE1.
*/ Latest information of overdue portfolio.
E, Reportedly paid after 6/31/89.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Project Promotion
Participants as X of total
No. ot     Total no. of                                                  NAFIN
Year          coursesa    participants    Entrepreneurs    Banks        Consultants     staff       Other
1982
1983
1984
1986
1986
1987              78          3,804            29.3          57.6           0.7          11.9        g.e
19S8              68          2,073            49.3          26.1           1.6          22.4        *.7b
1989               7             690           46.7          49.8          8.8            2.7        6.0
Total          141          8,467            37.3          46.7           1.6          14.4        0.6
Source: NAFIN.
/ Includoo courses on project proparation, ovaluation and supervision and othor special topics.
/ Centrom Tecnologicos Nacionnleo (National Technological Center).
sI  From January 1, 1989 to June 30, 1989



- 37 -                          Annex 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2142-ME)
Supervision Visits
NAFIN & financial intermediarva
Visits as 2 of
Year          Total clients    No. of visits    total clients
1982                  -                 -
1983
1984                  -
1985                  1                 0                  0
1986                  3                 2                 66
1987                 42                12                 28
1988               134                112                 83
1989               134                141                105
Number of benefilcaries                 Number of visits
Financial                            Financial
NAFIN -  NAFIN -  Interm-             NAFIN -  NAFIN -  Intern.-
central  regional diaries            central  rerional diartie
Year      office   offices  offices   Total     office   offices  offices   Total        S
1985         I        o        a        1          o        o        o        a           a
1986         2        1        *        *                   a        6        2          e
1987        11       14       17       42          5        2        2       12          28
1983        2        55       U        184       t1        4        43      112          63
1909        21       Go       S1      1U4         25      6e        53       141        106
Source: NAFIN.
j/ Until 1987, supervision visits were not undertaken on a regular basis
until the PROFIRI Program was implemented. Following Bank supervision
in 1987, visits started in September 1987 and were carried out
regularly.



Page 1 of 20
- 38 -
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OF LOAN 2142-ME
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this section of the report is to address the results of
World Bank Loan 2142-ME with respecL _o the credit status of the companies
that were financed with World Bank funds. The report also includes an ex-
post evaluation of ten companies, showing their operating and financial
results. It is important to point out that due to the small number of
companies in the sample and the way in which the sample was selected, it is
not representative and does not allow us to make inferences concerning the
rest of the subloans made. This report constitutes what an ex-post evaluation
would be if the sample chosen were statistically valid.
1.    Evaluation of the Portfolio of Loan 2142-ME
World Bank Loan 2142-ME, in the amount of $152.3 million, was expected
to finance 191 subprojects totaling $149.7 million, technical assistance
amounting to $ 0.3 million and front-end fees of $2.3 million. Of the total
amount of the Loan, NAFIN utilized $113.4 million for 146 operations, FONEI
utilized $14.0 million for 31 operations, and the combined FOMEX and PROFIDE
utilized $22.6 million to finance 14 export project operations.
As of December 31, 1989, only 117 (61 percent) of the 191 companies that
received funds had outstanding balances, totalling $40.7 million, distributed
as follows:
Table 1
Loan 2142-ME
Subloan Balance as of December 31, 1989
Amount
Number of Proiects       1         thousands of dollars)          Z
NAFIN                102            87.2Z             39,908.C               98.0X
FONEI                 13            11.1                262.7                0.7Z
FOMEX                  2             1.72                523.6                1.3Z
TOTAL              117           100.0             40,694.3             100.02
Note: Part II and Anner 8 were prepared by NAFIN and submitted as a single
report in Spanish, a col of which is in the project file.



Annex 8
Paae 2 of 20
- 39 -
Of the a"nount discounted by NAFIN ($113.4 million), NAFIN had recovered,
as of December 31, 1989, $73.4 million, representing 65 percent of the total.
leaving an out.tanding balance of $40.0 million, distributed among 102
companies.
FONEI shows an outstanding balance of $262,700, representing 1.9 percent
of the total outstanding amount discounted ($13.9 million). Finally,
PROFIDEIFOMEX has a balance of $523,600, representing 2.3 percent of the
amount discounted by this executing agency ($22.6 million).
As seen in Table 1, NAFIN has the largest share in this portfolio as a
result of the credit distribution established for this Program. Of the
balance shown for AhIN as of December 31. 1989, 34 percent represented its
*ctivity as a first-tier institution and 66 percent as a second-tier
institution.
Participation of the intermediate banks in NhAIN's outstanding portfolio
as a second-tier institution as of December 31, 1989 is shown in the following
Chart I.
Chart I
aa
0   _ __i_
On the basis of the foregoing, we see that BANAMX has the largest
share, with an outstanding balance of 35.3 percent of NAFIN's second-tier
total. Following in importance are BANCOMEXT, with 15.6 percent, BCH with
14.2 percent, and CORMRMEX/SOMEX with 12.4 percent. It should be noted that
banks having balances of less than $2.0 million are included under 'Others.'
FONEI's outstanding portfolio is distributed as follows:
Chart I1
so.-          -
40--
0 



Page 3 of 20
- 40 -
Banco Internacional has a larger balance than the other banks, with
;106,000, representing 40.3 percent of the total, which is distributed among
six companies.
Following in importance are NAFIN and BANCOMEXT with $64,400 and
$47,400, respectively, representing 24.5 percent and 18 percent.
In the case of the operations carried out by PROFIDE/FOMEX, there is a
balance of $523,600. representing a 1.3 percent share of the total outstanding
portfolio.
It is important to point out that events affecting Mexico's economy in
the 1980s led to a paralysis of public investment expenditures, which in turn
restrained private investment. Under these circumstances, companies saw
themselves constrained to alter their plans, thus lowering their production
levels, their use of industrial capacity, and sales revenues.
We note that, faced with this situation, the majority of companies that
received World Bank funds attempted to repay these funds within the
established repayment periods, and in some instances they repaid the funds in
advance to avoid high financing costs.
The overdue portfolio for Loan 2142-ME resulting from this situation is
detailed on the next page (Table 2).
These results show that the overdue portfolio applies only to NAFIN,
because FONEI and PROFIDE did not report, as of December 31, 1989, any
borrowers in this situation. This can be verified on the basis of information
provided in writing by the banks that acted as intermediaries in the loan
discounting operations.
NAFIN's overdue portfolio has a balance of $4.6 million, corresponding
to 15 companies, whose share in the total is 3.1 percent and 8.4 percent,
respectively.
NAFIN's ov'rdue portfolio is mainly conc2ntrated (3 percent of total
amount disbursed) under the heading of *Judicial Action," one- to two-year
term, as shown in Table 2.
Repayment of only four loans, totalling $8.4 million (including
interest), has been demanded from Papelera la Rioja, Fundidora Aluma, Fomento
Exterior, and Marmoles Sordo Noriega. Also, the only provision for write-
off, which was authorized by the National Banking and Insurance Commission,
was for a $1.8 million loan to Papeles Economicos de Tamaulipas.
Brief explanations of the circumstances that caused the companies'
failure to repay the loans in the overdue portfolio are set out below, along
with the szatus of the overdue portfolio as of April 1990.



Table 2
Portfolio In Arrears
as of December 31, 1989
(thousands of dollars)
Total                     Total                                    Portfolio In Arrears
Disbursements            Portfolio In Arrears                    Administrative        Judicial Action
Amount               No.     %    Amount                No       %  Amount    X     No.     X   Amount  X
NAFIN (IER. PISO)       95     88,433        10   10.6X      4582    6.4%         6    8.3X    137   0.2X    4    4.25   4145  8.2X
NAFIN (2DO. PISO)       61     48,917         6   11.85       375    0.85         0    0.0X      0   o.ox    8   11.8X    375  0.8X
SUBTOTAL             146    113,350        16   11.05     4,667    4.1X         6    4.1X    137   0.1%   10    6.8X   4520  4.0%
FONEI                   31     13,906         0    0.0%         0    0.05         0    0.0%      o   0.0x    0     O.0X      0  .0O5
PROFIDE/FOMEX           14     22,822         0    0.0X         0    0.0          0    0.0%      0   0.05    0    0.05      0  0.0%
OTHER                    0      2,423         0    0.05         0    0.OX         0    0.0       00 .OX    0    0.0X        0 0.0
TOTAL                191    162,300        16    8.45     4,8657    3.1X        6    3.15    137   9.15   10    5.2X   4520  3.0X
Note:  The date shown above for FONEI's portfolio differ from those shown in Annex S which shows that four loans are overdue.  The
above data are based upon later information.  It is to be noted that a high percentage of failed projects or projects in
diff8culty repaid or prepaid their loans.



Page 5 of 20
- 42 -
Current Status of Companies in Overdue Portfolio
BANCOMEXT/HERRAMIENTAS TRUPER, S.A.
This company is dedicated to manufacturing hand tools. Output levels
declined due to the company's relocating its plant from Naucalpan in the State
of Mexico to Jilotepec. This, in addition to further expenses incurred in
training new workers and relocating the staff that was transferred from Mexico
to Jilotepec, caused the company's difficulties in generating encagh funds to
meet its loan obligations.
BANCO BCH/BENEFICIO SAN FERNANDO, S.&.
This company is dedicated to coffee growing. Ninety-five percent of its
output is exported. The decline in international coffee prices resulted in
lower-than-projected revenues to meet the company's operating needs and credit
obligations.
NAFIN/INDUSTRIA MEXICANA DEL BANO, S.A. DE C.V.
This company's overdue debts as of December 1989 were paid off in
January 1990. It is currently up to date.
BANCO BCH/MARMOLES SORDO NORIEGA, S.A.
This company is dedicated to mining, processing, and finishing all kinds
of stone, marble, onyx and its by-products. In July 1989, the loan was called
because the company did not timely verify its use of the funds from the loan.
NAFIN/DEVAL PLASTICOS, S.A.
This company is dedicated to plastics manufacturing. It encountered
cash flow and debt problems because its primary customer, Palmolive, canceled
large orders. Nonetheless, as a result of the company's additional efforts,
it had regularized its credit status as of March 1989.
NAFINJPAPELES ECONOMICOS DE TAMAULIPAS, S.A.
This company is dedicated to manufacturing of cardboard (cartoncillo]
and tissue paper. Due to contraction of its market, the company deemed it
inappropriate to pursue its expansion project. Therefore, much of the
machinery and equipment financed has not yet been installed. This situation
has prevented it from generating funds needed to meet its loan obligations.
Repayment has been formally demanded.
NAFIN/INTERPROS, S.A.
Due to delinquent payments from its largest customers, the company had
to divert funds to payment of Christmas bonuses and the employee si ings plan
in December. This caused it not to meet its loan obligations, and .hus, in



Page 6 of 20
- 43 -
December 1989, it Was delinquent. On April 10, 1990, the company-totally paid
off the loan.
NAFIN/FUNDIDORA ALUMA, S.A.
This company is dedicated to smelting of metals, aluminum, and aluminum
ingots. The company had liquidity problems causing the project to be delayed
because imported machinery had not been installed. The machinery could not be
timely released from customs because of administrative difficulties,
preventing production and, in turn, leading to a lack of funds needed to meet
its loan obligations. Repayment has been formally demanded.
NAFIN/PAPELERA LA RIOJA, S.A.
Due to an increase in the costs of the investment being financed, the
company did not complete its expansion project. Accordingly, it is faced with
difficulties in generating funds needed to meet its operating needs and loan
obligations.
NAFIN!PETROPACK DE CHIHUAHUA, S.A.
In December 1989, the company incurred extraordinary expenses in the
purchase of heating equipment and payment of Christmas bonuses, which caused a
delay in its debt payment. However, on January 11, 1990, it made the full
payment and is now up to date in its payments.
NAFIN/CONVERTIDORA Y MAQUILADORA DE PAPEL, S.A.
Due to delinquent payments from its customers, the company faced
liquidity problems that prevented it from meeting its loan obligations. At
present, the company is delinquent in its debt payments, and a formal demand
for payment will be made soon.
NAFIN/FOMENTO EXTERIOR, S.A.
This company's workers announced a strike and its assets were auctioned
in December 1989 to meet its labor obligations. This case will be specially
monitored.
NAFIN/METAL Y MAQUILA, S.A.
This company is a subsidiary of Fundidora Aluma, and it has liquidity
problems because the project was delayed due to the machinery being held in
customs, which led to inability to generate sufficient funds, when production
could not be started as had been planned. At present, a formal demand has
been made.



Paxe 7 of 20
- 44 -
BANCRESER/TECNOLOGIA Y AUTOMATIZACION HONEYWELL
Because its objectives were not clearly defined and because the market
for its line of industrial computers was contracting, its liquidity problems
became more acute, and as a result the company did not timely meet its loan
obligations.
BANCO BCH/DACROLAN
For several years this company had a good credit standing. In the last
half of 1989 it began to have liquidity problems as a result of labor
difficulties and decreasing sales. This led to a delay in meeting its loan
obligations. Under the circumstances it declared that it was suspending
payments. The loans were called.
Conclusions
Based on the forb-oing. we see that most of the problems of the 16
companies in the overdue portfolio were due to contracting markets.
Nonetheless, as of April 1990, four of these companies had gotten up to date
in their payments, two loans had been called, and ten were still in the
overdue portfolio, with four of the companies having received formal demand
for payment.
2. Background on Loan 2142-ME and
Ex-post Evaluation of Ten Companies
The original objective of Loan 2142-ME was to achieve efficient
development of the capital goods manufacturing subsector in Mexico, and to
contribute to increased productivity, employment, balance of payments, and
technological development and assimilation in this subsector. The Loan was
designed as a line of credit with two components: the first intended to
finance establishment or expansion of the medium-size capital goods industry;
the second would provide financing to establish mechanisms for support and
assistance to companies directly or indirectly participating in the capital
goods industry through technical training, technological information and
services, and feasibility studies.
It is important to note that in the 1980s events occurred in the
national economy, such as the fall in the international price of oil and
increased international interest rates, that negatively affected the Federal
Government's plans by reducing its revenues. This led to drastic changes in
public financing. The adjustments in overall and sectoral plans were
primarily aimed at maintaining the country's productive plant and employment.
With restraints on publlc spending, which acts as a catalyst for both private
investment and particularly invigorates the capital goods sector, which
directs a large part of its output to public enterprises, it became necessary
to reorient the project to keeping other sectors in operation. Domestic
demand for capital goods was restricted and international markets introduced
protective measures; offering financing exclusively to the capital goods
manufacturing sector became inappropriate.



Page 8 of 20
- 45 -
In view of the foregoing, the original objective of the 'Loan authorize
by the World Bank was broadened for this purpose, and it began to provide
financing to companies that were modernizing the3ir productive plant,
develo-..g and/or assimilating technology, generating employment, and directly
or indirectly exporting goods.
In 1989, disbursement of the Loan was completed. Therefore, pursuant to
the agreement between NAFIN and the World Bank.. we present below an evaluation
of the effects of the loans granted to ten companies.
Survey Sample
Fifteen companies were surveyed. They were selected as companies that,
during the period of time in question, were able to obtain some results
demonstrating the effects of the investments. The companies evaluated were
selected on the basis of World Bank suggestions.
To evaluate the effects of the support received by these companies, a
questionnaire was developed to obtain data such as general identifying
information on the company, and its market, output, finances, and
socioeconomic factors. The questionnaire was completed directly by the
companies.
The primary problems encountered in carrying out the survey were:
-- most of the companies requested time to gather information;
-- some companies asked for additional time due to other priorities;
and
-- other companies did not wish to furnish information because they had
already paid off their loans.
In view of the foregoing, and because of the difficulties encountered in
obtaining the information, the sample was reduced to ten companies.
Ex-Post Evaluation of the Ten Companies Surveyed
It is important to reiterate the remarks made in the preceding
paragraphs concerning the impact of the economic environment in which Mexican
industry operated during the 1980s, which is reflected in the results obtained
by the surveyed companies.
The principal events were:
- the fall in the international price of oil and increasing
international interest rates, which negatively affected the Mexican
Government's plans because, when its revenues were reduced, drastic
changes were made in overall and sectoral plans;



Pa&e 9 of 20
- 46 -
-  the crisis had significant negative effects on the level of output,
revenue, wages, and utilization of the industrial plant; and
- the plans and investments of private companies that were made before
the economic crisis, which relied on the expectation of an expanding
market, failed, especially with respect to companies that were
suppliers for the Government.
Taking this context as the basis, the following table shows the
companies surveyed and the type of project financedt
Type of Proiect
Name of Company                                        New      Expansion
Alto Carbono, S.A. de C.V.                                          X
Aletas y Birlos, S.A. de C.V.                            X
Dispositivos Magneticos, S.A. de C.V.                               X
Herramientas y Triconos, S.A. de C.V.                    X
Industrias Corelmex, S.A. de C.V.                        X
Internacional de Elevadores, S.A. de C.V.                           X
Industrial de Informatica, S.A. de C.V.                             X
Multilec, S.A. de C.V.                                              X
Reproscanner, S.A. de C.V.                                          X
Tecnologica Metalica Industrial,
S.A. de C.V.X                                                    X
TOTAL                                               3          7
The following is a general overview of the companies evaluated, as well as
the results obtained from carrying out their investment projects.
ALTO CARBONO. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
The company received a loan for the equivalent of $428,000 in pesos
intended to finance the purchase of foreign wiredrawing machinery intended to
increase by 44 percent the installed capacity for its line of uninsulated
wire. This increase in output would allow the company to export 28 percent of
its products.
Achievement of its Obiectives
The company completed its project on schedule. Sales targets were
exceeded by 8 percent in real terms. However, foreign sales targets were not
met because it could satisfy the domestic market (where demand is growing).
Nonetheless, the company is currently negotiating with various customers
abroad to supply them in the medium term. With regard to generating



Page 10 of 20
- 47 -
employment, the company exceeded its goal by 24 percent by hiring 31 people
instead of the 25 it had projected.
The company develops its own technology and in the case of this project,
it developed the polyethylene sheathing process for wire. At present, itr
productive capacity is 15 percent greater than projected (from 6,960 tons to
8,007 tons).
The product's good reception is reflected in the project yields obtained,
registering an FIRR of 22.99 percent and an E1RR of 56.63 percent. Upon
com,Rletion of the project, these benefits are accordingly shown by the FIRR
and EIRR of the company, with the project, of 61.5 percent and 120.6 percent,
respectively; these figures are higher than the levels established by the
World Bank. It Is important to note that once the project reaches full
cruising speed, it is expected that these yields will be even higher, in this
case exceeding the rates of return obtained without the project.
At present the loan is current.
ALETAS Y BIRLOS. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
The company received a loan in the amount of 87.5 million pesos to equip
an industrial shop, with a purchase option, for manufacturing of finned,
studded [birlado] pipe to meet the demand of PEMEX, its main customer, and at
the same time to substitute for imports.
Achievement of its Obiectives
The company completed its project on schedule, putting it into operation
five months later. The latter delay was due to technological support problems
on the part of its foreign shareholder.
Once the project was under operation, it was more successful than b.ad been
expected because the estimate of demand was quickly exceeded. In this way,
the company was able to remain in operation for three shifts a day; however,
due to the fact that the company relied on PEMEX as its sole customer, when
the latter lowered its spending as a result of its contracting market, Aletas
y Birlos was affected to such a degree that it is now operating at only 20
percent of its installed capacity. Faced with this situation, it is now
seeking new markets abroad and/or to manufacture new product lines.
On the basis of the foregoing, we note that once the company was
evaluated, the project registered a negative FIRR and EIRR, of 6.35 percent
and 8.13 percent, respectively. This was a result of the contraction of its
market, which prevented the firm from generating enough funds to permit it to
adequately cover its costs.



Page 11 of 20
- 48 -
Credit Status
The loan was paid off in advance because its partners made contributions
for the purpose of improving the soundness of the company's financial status,
because the generation of funds was insufficieut to meet its loan obligations.
DISPOSITIVOS MAGNETICOS. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
The company received a loan in the amount of 157.6 million pesos intended
for the purchase of machinery to produce disk units and peripheral equipment
.*th the purpose of meeting demand on the domestic market and to substitute
for imports.
Achievement of its Obiectives
With Mexico's entry into the GATT, the domestic market presented
difficulties for the sale of the company's products, while the international
market seems to be accessible to the company due to the quality of its
products.
It is important to note that the company completed its project on
schedule. However, due to financial problems, its principal foreign
shareholder (Storage Techno) contributed neither the funds nor technology that
it had agreed to make available to start up the project, and this gave rise to
the company's financial imbalances.
At present, it is marketing both the products it imports and, marginally
(24 percent), the products it manufactures, since the income it generates is
insufficient to cover its fixed costs, given the low rate of utilization of
its productive capacity.
The company generated 41 percent of its target for new jobs, hiring 78
people rather than the projected 191.
In terms of ex-post evaluation, the project achieved an FIRR of 1.9
percent and an EIRR of 3.1 percent; these figures are considered insufficient
in terms of the cost of capital and project potential. With the project, the
company's FIRR was 36.8 percent and the EIRR was 47.1 percent. These yields
for the company with the project, show how the marketing of imported computer
products makes it possible to develop the manufacturing and assembly of
peripheral computer equipment and spare parts within Mexico.
Credit Status
The company paid off its loan on schedule.



Pane 12 of 20
- 49 -
HERRAMIENTAS Y TRICONOS. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
In September 1983, the company received a loan in the amount of 605
million pesos intended to support installation and start-up of an industrial
plant to produce barreras triconicas with steel teeth; the purpose was to
partially substitute for imports of this product by PEMEX and also to export
50 percent of its output. The equipment the company purchased came from the
United States.
Achievement of its Obiectives
The company made its investments in accordance with its projections.
However, its sales were affected when PEMEX's sales fell. Therefore, of the
13.312 billion pesos in sales projected for the 1986-88 period, the company
attained only 3.011 billion pesos in real terms. Utilization of productive
capacity fell due to this situation, with the company producing only 2,226 of
the 12,000 projected units, that is, 18 percent. With regard to employment
generated, the company hired 104 of the 227 new employees projected.
Declining income and high operating costs currently experienced by the
company are reflected in its rates of internal return, which were 3.61 percent
for the FIRR and 1.58 percent for the EIRR; these figures are considered to be
low in relation to the levels required by the World Bank. Under these
circumstances, the company intends to expand its market abroad in order to
improve the situation.
Credit Status
The company paid off its loan in advance to avoid the high interest rates.
This was made possible by contributions made as a loan to the company by its
partners.
INDUSTRIAS CORELMEX. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
In 1987, the company received a loan of 1.2 billion pesos intended to
finance installation and start-up of a plant to produce electrical extension
cords, all of which would be exported.
Achievement of its Objectives
The company started production in April 1988, manufacturing only the
interior part of the electrical conductor, and for this reason the projected
sales in the line of extensions were not attained. Beginning with the second
half of 1988, the company made an additional investment with its own funds.
intended tc diversify its output to include electrical extensions for domestic
consumptior. having a capacity higher than the original project (which was for
export).



Page 1iof 20
- 50 -
The company uses it own technology, competing on the international level
with the Korean market; its product quality is higher than that of its
competitors. Also, in connection with the original plan, the company was able
to stimulate the activity of three small suppliers of packaging and inputs for
its products.
Due to the fact that the company has not yet surpassed its learning curve,
and that the period of time during which the project was in full operation has
been short, the benefits attained from the investment have not yet been
observed. For this reason, the internal rates of return show results that are
below the projected rates, namely -7.5 percent for the FIRR and -3.9 percent
for the EIRR, which are indicative of the project's stage of development.
The company receives technical consulting assistance from Woods Wire
Products, Inc. (it does not pay fees), which allows it to rely on support for
the development of new products or to improve its current products.
With the project, the company generated 455 jobs, which is 233 percent of
the projected number of 120.
Credit Status
The loan is now current, and the company's credit standing is good.
INTERNACIONAL DE ELEVADORES. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
The company received a loan in the amount of 96 million pesos intended for
the purchase of machinery and equipment and to expand one of its industrial
shops to manufacture currently imported doors for the elevators it produces.
Achievement of its Obiectives
The project was completed in its entirety. However, at present, due to
contraction of its market as well as the. failure of its primary customer to
enter contracts abroad, the company is having serious difficulties in placing
its product. In real terms, the company attained sales in the amount of 8.639
billion pesos, reaching 62.1 percent of the projected amount of 13.918
billion. With regard to output levels, the company reached 72 percent of the
projected amount.
With regard to the project's rates of return, the FIRR and EIRR are 1.28
percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. These rates reflect the fact that it
proved too costly for the company to manufacture its own doors. Under the
circumstances, the company intends to continue importing them. It should be
noted that due to the fact that its income levels are low, the EIRRs are
negative when the accounting price is compared to its outlays; this accounting
price is higher than he amount of income.



Page 14 of 20
- 51 -
Credit Statu
The company paid off its loan two months early.
INDUSTRIAL DE INFORMATICA, S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
The company received a loan in the amount of 12.7 million pesos intended
for the purchase of machinery and equipment of foreign origin for
manufacturing
of computer cassette recording tapes. The purpose of this investment is to
replace imports and to export goods.
Achievement of its Objectives
The company completed its project; when production began, its product was
well received on the domestic market, attaining 86.5 percent of the projected
sales in real terms.
At present, its plant is insufficient and it will therefore be expanded
and relocated. This will allow the company to enter foreign markets in the
medium term.
The company is making maximum use of its capacity (26.7 percent more than
projected).
The company has a technology development division, which has permitted it
to make necessary adaptations in equipment purchased abroad in order to
fabricate new products. The project generated nine of the 12 projected new
jobs.
As a result of the company's achievements, we note that, with the project,
it was able to manufacture a product whose competitive advantages have allowed
it to remain on the domestic market. With the opening of the economy, the
company is coming into competition with several foreign brands. However, the
company's products are in great demand, because the trend in using computers,
mainly personal computers, has resulted in an increase in the size of its
market. These results are reflected in the FIRR and EIRR obtained from the
project, which are 84.4 percent and 74.8 percent, respectively.
If the project had not been carried out, the company would be operating
with very low rates of return.
Credit Status
The loan is current, and the company's credit standing is good.



Page 15 of 20
- 52 -
MULTILEC. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
In 1986, the company received a loan in the amount of 335 million pesos,
which was used tc buy equipment intended to increase productive capacity in
its tops switches line, due to the fact that it was operating at its maximum
capacity.
Achievement of its Obiectives
The company made the investment according to schedule. However, it should
be noted that due to the requirements of the marketplace, it could not rely on
and/or develop only the technology of its products; rather its design
technology was also important. Therefore, in December 1988, a co-investment
was made by Multilec and Ya:aki Corp., a Japanese firm that is a market leader
in the field of automotive parts manufacturing, primarily gaskets. This co-
investment allowed the company to fabricate its products with state-of-the-
art technology, which ensures that it will remain in the market.
The achievements of this project were marginal. For this reason, the
company did not, at the time of the evaluation, have a separate accounting of
project results.
It is important to note that the project is entirely supported by the
market.  At present, the company manufactures these products according to
international quality standards, which makes it competitive.  With the
project, the company attained an FIRR of 12.2 percent and an EIRPR of 13.0
percent, which are considered to be attractive in relation to the parameters
established by the World Bank.
The project's profitability rates should be considered to be equivalent to
the company's rates, with the project, because both the company and the
project are operating at full productive capacity.
Credit Status
The financing was repaid in advance as a result of the co-investment with
Yasaki Corp., which was made on condition that there were no outstanding
debts.
REPROSCANNER, S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
In 1988 the company received a loan in the amount of 247.2 million pesos
for the purchase of heat selection (seleccion de calor] equipment in order to
replace the obsolete machinery it was using and thus to be able to adequately
satisfy domestic demand.



Page 16 of 20
- 53 -
Achievement of its Obiectives
The company carried out the project on schedule, which allowed it. upon
start-up, to solve its technical problems and at the same time to adequately
satisfy domestic demand. increasing its share from 4.5 percent to 13 percent
(based on data provided by the National Chamber of the Graphic Arts Industry).
Because of their quality and price, the company's products have been
exported and well received in foreign markets. In 1989, it entered the
markets of Greece, Argentina and the USA, with 18 percent of itc total sales
in those markets.
It 1988-1989 sales rose to 847 million pesos in real terms, representing
92 percent of the amount projected. As a result of this increase, its
utilized productive capacity exceeds 34 percent of the amo%Lit projected.
Moreover, the company created 12 new jobs out of the 14 expected.
Both the quality and price of its l,roducts allowed the company to obtain
large customers, such as Grolier Publishing in Paris and London and Comercial
Mexicana, among others, which ensures its place in the market.
The growing demand for its products effected the company's results. Thus,
according to the financial evaluation we have carried out, the project had an
FIRR of 20.6 percent and an EIRR of 12.8 percent. With the project, the
company had an FIRR of 28.8 percent and an EIRR of 10.1 percent. In this case
it is noted that the benefits of carrying out the project were positive.
Credit Status
At present, the loan is current, and the company has a good credit
standing.
TECNOLOGIA METALICA INDUSTRIAL. S.A. DE C.V.
Purpose of the Loan
In March 1984, the company received a loan in the amount of 185.3 million
pesos for expansion of its installed productive capacity, with the purpose of
manufacturing seamed pipe with 20- to 48-inch diameters. These products
should meet the demand for pipe in sizes that are required for works carried
out by the Government. Its largest customers include the Department of
Mexican Water and Petroleum Resources. The project includes construction of
the industrial shop and the purchase of equipment.
Achievement of its objectives
The company completed approximately 80 percent of its project and most of
the equipment has been entirely installed. The proje.t was beset by delays
due to indecision caused by the unfavorable market ou look and, finally, by
contraction of the market. This outlook was confirmed and the company's main



Page 17 of 20
- 54 -
customers (SARH and PEMEX) stopped ordering their products as a result of
cutbacks in their own budgets.
This was reflected in the fact that the level of sales only reached 37
percent of the projected level in real terms.
With regard to output levels, the company is currently attaining only 50
percent of the projected levels. It is using only 20 percent of installed
capacity.
To use its plant efficiently, the company intends to engage in
boilermaking as well as various special jobs. However, as this is
insufficient, the company is trying to promote its products in the USA. At
present, it has several potential customers. The company uses domestic
technology in the manufacture of its products.
The contraction of the market and, as a consequence, the failure to
generate funds to meet its operating costs result in the company's operatng
with low
yields, in view of the company's rates, with the project, which were 3.73
percent and 3.17 percent for the FIRR and the EIRR, respectively.
It is important to point out that due to the fact that the products that
the company manufactures are entirely intended to meet the demand of
Government-owned companies, the internal rates of return of the company,
without the project, are still lower than the established amounts.
Credit Status
At present, the company is current on the loan. However, the company
finds itself in serious difficulty with respect to meeting its loan
obligations, and it must apply for short-term credit to pay off its
liabilities, which in turn causes it to have liquidity problems.
CONCLUSION
Evaluation of results attained by the ten companies in the sample shows
that the majority of the companies completed their projects. However, in
relation to the objectives anticipated during project planning, we note that
five of the companies are having difficulties in reaching their sales goals
and with underutilization of their production capacities, which means that
their operating costs are high. On average, the companies in the sample
reached 42.5 percent of their sales targets. Likewise, output reached 64
percent of the projected level.
Two main causes led to these results:
(a)the contracting market that resulted from a decline in irvestments,
uasinly in the public sector; and



Pase 18 of 20
- 55 -
(b)dependence on a single customer, which in this case ie Petroleos
Mexicanos (PEMEX] and/or SARH. state-owned companies C at were
affected by the downturn in public spending.
It is important to point out that the equipment purchased by the companies
is primarily of foreign origin, and represents the leading edge of technology.
This has allowed the companies to modernize their plants and has made it
possible for them to manufacture products for export under competitive
conditions.
Rates of financial and economic return were as follows:
Table 3
Internal Rate of Return
Company Result                       Company Results
With the Proiect Proiect Results Without the Project
FIRR     EIRR       FIRR    EIRR       FIRR    EIRR
Aletas y Birlos, S.A.        -         -        -6.3    -8.1        -        -
Alto Carbono, S.A.        61.6      120.6       22.9    56.6      63.9    152.2
Dispoitivos Magneticos
S.A.                    36.8       47.1       1.9      3.1     71.9      90.7
Herramientas y Triconos,
S.A.                                         3.61    1.58
Industrias Corelmex,
S.A.                                         -7.5    -3.9
Int. de Elevadores,
S.A.                    44.1    -31.05        2.4    -2.2      66.4    -34.9
Industrial de Infor-
matica, S.A.            84.4       74.8       n.a.    n.a.       n.a.     n.a.
Multilec, S.A.            12.2       13.0        n.a.    n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Repro Scanner, S.A.       28.8       10.1       20.6    12.8      24.2      9.6
Tec. Metalica Ind.
S.A.                     3.7        3.2       7.5      8.4       4.9      4.8
In accordance with the foregoing, we note that the companies that are at
present operating with difficulty as a consequence of the contraction of the
market for their products have internal rates of return that are lower than,
and even below, the established average from the various standpoints mentioned
above, and the result is that these yields are insufficient in terms of cost
of capital and project potential.



Pase 19 of 20
- 56 -
Under these circumstances, the companies are se king new markets for their
products, as well as diversification of the lines t ey currently manufacture.
With regard to employment generated, we note that the companies that are
operating with difficulty did not meet their targets. However, the companies
that are operating under normal conditions at present are meeting their goals
and some are exceeding their goals, as in the case of Alto Carbono, S.A. de
C.V. and Industries Corelmex, S.A. de C.V.
The ten companies in the sample generated 718 jobs, that is, 99 percent of
the 726 projected; the average investment per job was 12.0 million current
pesos.
With regard to credit status, it was precisely the companies operating
with difficulty, due to problems relating to the market for their products,
that paid off their loans in advance in order to avoid high financing charges,
or, due to their inability to generate funds, in order to avoid falling into
the overdue portfolio, particularly as in the cases of Aletas y Birlos, S.A.
de C.V. and Herramientas y Triconos, S.A. de C.V., which prepaid their debts.
EVALUATION METHODOLOGY
Basic Computationfo FIRR and EIRR
In general, it is appropriate to note that computation of the rates of
economic and financial return of projects is based on World Bank Technical
Paper No. 335, the basic elements of which are as follows:
1.  costs and benefits of the project were disaggregated into:  (a) flows
of investment costs, (b) flows of operating costs, and (c) benefit
flows. These headings were calculated for the company both with and
without the project, as well as for the project itself. The costs
and benefits are estimated using market prices;
2.  amounts for depreciation and amortization of assets and the amount
for payment of interest are excluded from the stream of costs;
3.  in computing the rate of financial return, the amount for payment of
taxes (ISR' and OPTUI) is excluded. This rate is calculated by
applying to the net benefit flows from the project at market prices
the corresponding producer price indices, on the basis of the year of
project investment;
4.  the EIRR is calculated by applying to the net benefit flows from the
project at constant prices the ratios of accounting prices, which
were taken from the study carried out by NAPIN and the Inter-American
Development Bank, 1988 edition; and
5.  the flows were calcul-ited for a ten-year period.



Pane 20 of 20
- 57 -
Investment Der Job Generated by Project
To calculate this indicator, we divied the project investment by the
number of jobs generated with the project, both in the case of the number
projected and the number actually achieved upon completion.
Project Sales
The actual project sales were calculated as follows:
1.  the sales at market prices were obtained, beginning from the date in
which the project began; and
2.  the producer indices corresponding to each case evaluated were
applied. The indices used as the basis were those published by the
Banco de MexiLc in February 1990.



