Document of                     g
The World Bank                     -4 EL,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3284-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Central Bank withdrew from the exchange market on February 18, 1982.
Prior to that date, the exchange rate was 26.9 pesos to the US dollar. In
recent weeks, the peso has traded around 46 to the dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF          Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
COCOFIN      Coordinating Committee on Financing for the Capital Goods
Industrial Development Program
(Comite Coordinador y de Evaluacion Financiera del Programa
de Desarrollo de la Industria de Bienes de Capital)
FISOMEX      SOMEX Industrial Development Company
(Fomento Industrial SOMEX)
FOMEX        Manufactured Products Export Development Fund
(Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados)
FONEI        Industrial Equipment Fund
(Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
NAFINSA      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
Program      Capital Goods Industries Development Program
supported by the proposed project
SOMEX        Sociedad Mexicana de Credito Industrial
(A Commercial Bank and Investment Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiaries: Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI); Sociedad Mexicana
de Credito Industrial (SOMEX); and NAFINSA
Amount:         US$152.3 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee
of US$2.3 million
Terms:          Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6 percent per annum
Onlending
Terms:        Implementing agencies (FONEI, SOMEX, and NAFINSA) would receive
loan funds at an interest rate equal to four points less than
the onlending interest rate applicable on subloans. The
maximum amortizatici period for sub-loans would be 13 years
including 3 years of grace.
Project
Description: The project is the first phase of the Capital Goods Indus-
tries Development Program which seeks to promote balanced
and efficient development of the capital goods manufacturing
sub-sector. The project would provide financing and technical
support to medium-size capital goods manufacturers and would
help strengthen the institutional base for the Program. The
Program would be co-financed by the Government, Mexican and
foreign banks, export credit agencies, private Mexican and
foreign entrepreneurs, and the Bank.
The project includes the following components:
Financing Operations:
(a) Medium- and long-term loans for creation of new or expansion
of existing capital goods enterprises;
(b) Equity investments by participating agencies in new or
expanding capital goods enterprises;
(c) Sales finance;
(d) Finance of technical assistance to manufacturers; and
(e) Finance of technological research and development through
a risk sharing mechanism.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Complementary Measures:
(a) Training the staff of enterprises and participating
financial institutions in the preparation, promotion, and
evaluation of capital goods projects, including specialized
training in aspects of subcontracting, quality control and
export promotion;
(b)  An assessment of existing training programs and facilities;
(c) Establishment of a mechanism to review progress in resolving
technical and structural issues affecting the subsector;
and
(d) Strengthening and expansion of the information
dissemination system for the subsector, including
expansion of technological information services,
assessment of the installed capacity of capital goods
manufacturers, and special studies.
About 22,000 new jobs would be created at an average investment
of US$40,000 per job. Because of linkages with other parts of
the economy, the project would yield important indirect employ-
ment benefits. The project would also promote deconcentration
of industrial activity, generate over US$2 billion in foreign
exchange savings or export earnings during the first five
years of operation, and accelerate technology absorption and
development with consequent increases in productivity and
employment.
Project Risks: The project involves two important risks: (i) Effective
institutional coordination and management is essential to the
success of the project. The proposed structure and demonstrated
capabilities of the executing agencies make this risk acceptable.
(ii) The Government will have to maintain adequate policies to
ensure that only efficient industries are promoted. The
understandings in the project execution paper, the strong
committment of the Government, and periodic joint reviews of
the project reduce this risk. Overall, the project presents
an acceptable degree of risk.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                    Local        Foreign       Total
---------US$ Millions--------
Financing Operations                          622.5         519.0       1,141.5
Fixed Investment Loans                   130.0         340.0        470.0
Permanent Working Capital                120.0         100.0        220.0
Equity Investments                       116.0          77.0        193.0
Sales Finance                           250.0            -          250.0
Technical Assistance Loans                 3.9           1.1          5.0
Technology Development Finance             2.6           0.9          3.5
Complementary Measures                          2.5            1.0          3.5
Training                                   0.5           0.1          0.6
Information Dissemination                  1.6           0.8          2.4
Studies                                    0.4           0.1          0.5
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                       -             2.3          2.3
Total Cost                               625.0         522.3      1,147.3
Financial Plan:                                    Local        Foreign       Total
…--------US$ Millions--------
Implementing Agencies and
Local Banks:
a.  Own Resources                     511.0            -          511.0
b.  External Borrowings                 -            147.0        147.0
Industrial Beneficiaries:
a.  Own Resources                     114.0            -          114.0
b.  External Borrowings                 -            180.0        180.0
c.  Foreign Partners                                  43.0         43.0
Bank                                       -           152.3        152.3
Total                              625.0         522.3      1,147.3
4
Estimated Disbursements:
-----------US$ millions-------------
Bank FY      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual             13.3    53.0    69.0    15.0        2.0
Cumulative         13.3    66.3   135.3   150.3   152.3
Rate of Return:       The rate of return for sub-projects financed by the
project is expected to be in the range of 15 to 35
percent; an overall rate of return has not been
calculated.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3756b-ME dated April 15, 1982.



I
I         I       I             I        I            I      .                               I                                                   I             -



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$152.3 million to help finance a Capital Goods
Industries Development Project. Approximately $130 million of the loan would
be onlent by NAFINSA, the Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI), and Sociedad
Mexicana de Credito Industrial (SOMEX) to industrial enterprises for fixed
investments at a variable interest rate equal to the cost of funds to multi-
purpose banks (ACF) plus two points. Subloans would have a maximum amortization
period of 13 years including 3 years of grace. About US$2 million would be
onlent by the Industrial Equipment Trust Fund (FONEI) for technical assistance
and technology development at an interest rate of ACF less three points; part
of the technology development funds could be provided to enterprises on a
grant basis. The balance of the loan, about $18 million, would be onlent to
the implementing agencies to finance part of their equity investments in
capital goods enterprises and to finance training, studies, and other comple-
mentary measures. The implementing agencies would receive loan funds at an
interest rate equal to four percen'age points below the onlending interest
rate applicable on subloans; the maximum amortization period for such funds
would be 13 years including three of grace. The loan would be repaid over
15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan and would
repay the principal.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Mexico: Development Strategy - Prospects and Problems"
(3605-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on August 31, 1981.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        For the last thirty years, the Mexican economy recorded a high
rate of growth: on average, GDP grew at 6 percent per year, in real terms,
between 1950 and 1980, allowing output per capita to increase by 3 percent per
year over the same period. Sustained growth brought about rapid industriali-
zation: especially after 1955, industry has been the most dynamic sector of
the economy, growing at an average rate of 7.5 percent per year, while agri-
cultural output grew at 3.5 percent per year; thus, the share of the industrial
sector in GDP went up from 26 percent in 1950 to 38 percent in 1980. A
similar change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with manufactured
products accounting for an increasing share of total exports between 1950 and
1975. Finally, the last thirty years witnessed the passage from a rural to a
largely urban society: in 1980, the fraction of total population living in
urban areas was estimated to exceed 60 percent, while it was less than
30 percent in 1950.



- 2 -
4.        Successful exploitation of profitable opportunities by a dynamic
private sector has been the main engine of growth in the Mexican economy; but
the market mechanism, left to itself, could do little to correct the effects
of an uneven distribution of resources on the relative position of the poorer
segments of the population and of the less favoured areas of the country;
hence the Government has played a critical role in balancing the need to
provide resources and incentives for growth against the demands for a fair
distribution of its benefits.
5.        In the early seventies, the Government sought simultaneously to build
up infrastructure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and
implement massive social programs; the difficulties it encountered in mobilizing
enough resources to attain all these aims simultaneously led to excessive public
sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a large part of
aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to redress financial
imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of their goal, and, in
September 1976, the hitherto fixed parity of the peso was abandoned, while
the Government imposed a strict stabilization program on the economy.
Economic Performance, 1976-1981
6.        The Administration of President Lopez Portillo, which took office
in December, 1976, saw the control of inflation and the improvement of the
current account balance as its most urgent tasks; it succeeded in reducing
the rate of increase of domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while,
at the same time, the current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent.
In 1978, the economy resumed its path of rapid growth. One of the major
constraints on economic growth - the availability of foreign exchange - had
been greatly relaxed by the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil reserves;
these, which at the end of 1981 stood at 72 billion barrels (with potential
reserves estimated at 200 billion barrels), enabled the economy to finance the
purchases of raw materials and capital goods needed to sustain high GDP growth,
while the revenues from federal taxes on oil exports provided the Government
with resources, on a hitherto unprecedented scale, to pursue some of its
long-standing policy goals.
7.        In 1978-1981, output grew at an annual rate exceeding 7 percent,
above what would have been needed to absorb the new entrants into the labour
force; open unemployment is estimated to have fallen to 4-5 percent of the
labour force in the modern sector although underemployment is likely to
remain high in the medium run. The Administration succeeded in achieving
investment growth of over 16 percent per year, strengthening its support to
agriculture, reversing the trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic
foods, containing to some extent rural migration and providing small farmers
with access to more efficient production methods. Finally, a combination of
fiscal incentives and administrative regulations (together with the increasing
costs of congestion) had a positive effect on spatial decentralization, one of
the major policy objectives of the Administration.
8.        A marked increase in the size of the budget has been the first
result of the Government's new commitments: the expenditure budget grew, in
real terms, 20 percent per year between 1979 and 1981; furthermore, actual
expenditures exceeded budget figures by significant amounts (as much as



12 percent in 1981). Revenues have grown more slowly, and, as a result, the
public sector deficit amounted to over 14 percent of GDP in 1981. Despite a
high rate of mobilization of private savings into the financial- system - made
possible by a scheme of adjustable rates on peso deposits - the Government
had to resort increasingly to foreign borrowing. By 1980, moreover, the
side-effects of rapid GDP growth were making themselves felt; aggregate demand
- with total investment growing at over 16 percent per year, in real terms,
since 1979 - was exerting pressure on prices, and domestic inflation reached
26 percent, while the nominal exchange rate had remained practically stable
since 1977; as a result, non-oil exports were decreasing in real terms, while
imports - encouraged to some extent by a more liberal trade policy - had grown
by 30 percent per year since 1979. At the end of 1980, the current account
deficit amounted to 4 percent of GDP, as it had in 1976.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1981, the need to bring domestic inflation under control and to
help restore the competitiveness of non-oil exports became obvious. The
Administration opted for a policy of gradual adjustment, counting on slower
demand growth in 1982 - brought about partly by a deceleration of public
expenditures - to moderate inflation, and allowing a faster rate of float of
the peso to reduce the gap between domestic and foreign prices over a two-year
period. With a favourable outlook for oil exports, no major problems were
expected in the external sector, and a path of gradual adjustment to a rate
of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable in the long run and was
considered to be less costly in terms of inflation and unemployment than
more drastic stabilization measures. Thus, the Administration attempted to
reduce the extent of public overspending, while at the same time reintroducing
import licenses on 80 percent of imports, tightening public procurement
procedures and allowing the float to proceed at a faster pace.
10.       This program suffered a setback when, in the second half of 1981,
it became apparent that oil sales would not reach their target: actual
oil revenues, at US$14 billion, turned out to be 25 percent below what had
been forecast. The public sector had to increase its foreign borrowing by
US$4 billion, and the current account deficit reached an estimated US$11.3
billion, or 8 percent of GDP, at the end of the year. The exchange markets
reacted by increasing the downward pressure on the peso, and, in early 1982,
two events combined to make a guided float increasingly costly to maintain:
on the one hand, it seemed likely that oil sales for the year would again fall
short of expectations; on the other, the 5 percent increase in domestic prices
in January - due in part to the rise in domestic fuel prices decreed in
December, 1981, and in part to a 34 percent raise in the minimum wage for
1982 - suggested that inflation, which had reached 27.8 percent in 1981, might
well accelerate further in 1982. Once more, the exchange markets reacted
unfavourably, and, in order to stop the steady drain on reserves required for
maintaining the float, the authorities withdrew their support of the peso on
February 18. Since then, the exchange rate has stabilized at about Mex$46 to



the dollar, amounting to an adjustment of 40 percent in dollar terms. Simul-
taneously, the Administration announced a stabilization program whose main
component is a 3 percent cut in the 1982 budget - which, at the current rate
of inflation, shows a decrease in real terms with respect to 1981 - the
imposition of temporary price controls, the liberalization of certain necessary
imports (basic foodstuffs, raw materials and capital goods) and the granting
of financial support to firms affected by the parity change. Finally, a wage
raise of 30 percent for the lower echelons of the Administration was announced,
with higher employees receiving increases of the order of 10 percent; labour
has been urged to limit its demands to what would be necessary to restore the
pre-devaluation real purchasing power of wages.
Prospects
11.       The rate of inflation for 1982 has been forecast at 40 to 45
percent, while output is expected to grow at 4-4.5 percent. Both figures are
plausible, but sensitive to unpredictable circumstances;: a 45 percent rate
of inflation can be expected under a wage adjustment aimed at restoring the
pre-devaluation purchasing power of wage income, since - given the low import
coefficient and the still lower share of imports in consumption - such an
adjustment could be significantly lower than the parity change; a 4.5 percent
rate of GDP growth is compatible with a slight fall in imports - of 5
percent, say - which would bring about a substantial improvement in the
current account balance. But, if labour obtains a large wage increase, the
pressure on domestic prices might be much higher; and, if oil revenues fall
short of their expected target of about US$17 billion, an improvement in the
current balance might require a sharper fall in imports, which would in turn
force a lower rate of GDP growth.
12.       The Mexican Administration has sought to minimize the disruption
caused by the stabilization measures, so as not to jeopardize the remarkable
growth of the past years; in doing so, it has opted for a policy which is
likely to bring little relief from high inflation and external imbalances in
the very short run. Inflation is unlikely to fall below 40 percent in 1982,
and this will offset part of the effects of the devaluation on the competitive-
ness of non-oil exports. On the other hand, the external sector can improve,
in the short run, only to the extent that imports show a substantial deceleration,
since, even though the adoption of a more realistic parity has removed a major
obstacle to non-oil exports, the stimulus to foreign sales is unlikely to have
a significant effect on aggregate exports in the next few months, since oil
accounts for three-fourths of total export revenues. Finally, the Administra-
tion has little margin to reduce its expenditures during this fiscal year; the
only item in which substantial cuts can be effected in the short run is public
investment: general expenses (38 percent of the expenditure budget), debt
service (21 percent) or transfers and subsidies are virtually fixed for the
duration of the budget. But, if the Administration adheres to a strict
budgetary policy, thereby contributing to moderate the rate of domestic
inflation, significant improvements are likely to appear by the end of 1983:
non-oil exports, led by tourism and certain consumer goods (clothing, footwear,
appliances), will probably grow substantially; a reduced public sector borrowing
requirement (new net foreign financing is scheduled at US$11 billion for 1982,



-5-
down from US$15-17 billion in 1981) will reduce the pressure on the peso, and,
by 1984, Mexico could reach a sustainable rate of GDP growth of about 6 percent
on average, while maintaining the current account deficit within manageable
limits. Lastly, the Administration has an opportunity to overhaul the entire
system of transfers and subsidies, reducing their levels and improving their
cost-effectiveness.
13.       In the long run, one of the main tasks of the Mexican economic policy
is the allocation of future oil revenues to promote self-sustained growth; since
a substantial base of non-oil exports is a prerequisite for such self-sustained
growth, industrial policy will play a central role in the coming years.
Historically, trade policies in Mexico have tended to favor import substitution
of consumer goods at the expense of capital goods; this bias was partially
corrected in the 1965-75 period, but the pressure of oil revenues has had an
unfavorable effect on the competitiveness of domestic manufactures, and in
particular on the domestic production of capital goods, by making imports more
attractive. Thus, in 1981, imports of capital goods grew by more than 50 per-
cent, and, by the end of the year, they were estimated to account for over
one-third of total merchandise imports.
14.       Given the relatively large size of the domestic market, the industrial
sector has a vast potential for expansion (and hence for reaching an efficient
scale of production, which would provide the basis for competitive exports) in
many subsectors. The Administration is encouraging industrial expansion in
a selective fashion, mainly through a system of fiscal incentives (paras. 37, 38)
conditional on the attainment of specific production, export and price targets.
15.       The high rate of growth experienced by the Mexican economy in
recent years has provided the strongest weapon to tackle the long-term
problems mentioned above. At the present time, Mexico is in the midst of
an adjustment process which can be neither short nor painless, although its
recent record of rapid growth, by generating jobs in excess of the rate of
increase of the labor force, is likely to alleviate somewhat the main cost
of such an adjustment, namely, unemployment. Lower growth, on the other hand,
will afford an opportunity to reappraise many of the past years' goals and
policy instruments - in particular the level and structure of subsidies; and
there is evidence that the Administration, after having adopted unpopular
decisions in a politically difficult year, intends to carry out such a
reappraisal.
16.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. This high
ratio reflected the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks. The public debt
service ratio declined to around 30 percent in 1980, not only as a result of
rapid increase in petroleum exports, but also because some of the debt
contracted on the least favorable terms had been prepaid; but it had risen
again to an estimated 43 percent by end of 1981. Debt service on Bank
loans amounted to about 3.2 percent of public debt service in 1980; this
ratio is projected to remain about the same during the mid-1980s.



The Bank currently holds about 5.7 percent of Mexico's total medium and
long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change significantly
over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
17.       As of March 31, 1982, Mexico had received 72 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,218.1 million net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
44 loans totalling US$2,438.6 million were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$4,405.3 million, of which US$1,942.9 million had not yet been disbursed. 1/
Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
14 percent for industry, 13 percent for power, and 15 percent for transporta-
tion; the remaining 12 percent has been for water supply, tourism, urban
development and vocational training projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
18.       Of the US$5.2 billion total lending, about US$2.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channeling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small and medium scale
industrial enterprises based on productive investment plans rather than
collateralized credit.
19.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period
of stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of the peso.
Since then, the Government has arranged adequate budget financing and has
significantly improved project implementation. Four projects which had
important structural constraints were modified and rephased to account for the
changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have met periodically to
review project implementation, and greater attention has been focused in
Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these measures, most of the
Bank-assisted projects are being implemented satisfactorily and disbursements
have risen from US$91 million in FY78 to US$413 million in FY81.
IFC Operations
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made investment commitments in
23 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$404.1
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
1/   These totals do not include a $180 million loan for agricultural develop-
ment approved in March 1982 but not yet signed.



-7-
Bank Strategy
21.       The main objectives of recent Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help break bottlenecks
preventing rapid growth.
22.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and
the sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the population living in
the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to increase productivity of presently cultivated lands; second, to
improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement infrastructure
investments with support services such as extension, marketing, and credit;
and fourth, to promote employment generating investments in rural areas.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FYs76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for
irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock
credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural development project and a
US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabilitation project have been approved
by the Executive Directors in FY82. Several projects for rainfed agriculture,
rural development, irrigation, fisheries, and support services are in prepara-
tion.
23.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) promoting greater employment; and (c) decentralizing
industrial activities away from the major and increasingly congested urban
areas. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico,
and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into
a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion
of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment
fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. They
offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion and are
directed at all three goals mentioned above. A loan for a vocational training
project was approved by the Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting
a program to increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians. A loan
for a pollution control project is being negotiated. The project would assist
the efforts being made to reduce the environmental consequences of rapid
industrial and urban expansion.
24.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. A highway
sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support these
goals. The first and second medium size cities water supply and sewerage
projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of
specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal
levels and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to
costs; a third project has been appraised.



25.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation
area was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81. Several projects are now being prepared to meet the needs for basic
urban services for poor families and to provide key regional infrastructure
in selected priority cities.
26.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI
assistance is directed at urban and regional development, agriculture, rural
development and agro-industries courses. The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
27.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,697.1 million as of March 31, 1982. Over 60 percent of the
total has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. The IDB
and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has
made loans for the National Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries develop-
ment, and hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development
project in the State of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for
which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
28.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in Mexico
have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and commercial
banks. The proposed project also would be co-financed with commercial banks,
export credit agencies, and private enterprises. In January 1982, Mexico
borrowed US$500 million to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific cofinancing would be difficult.
PART III - THE CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES SUBSECTOR
Background
29.       Industry has led the growth of the Mexican economy in the last three
decades (para 3) with its share of GDP rising from about 26 percent in 1950 to
38 percent in 1980. There has also been a shift in the composition of Mexican
industrial production away from consumer goods toward intermediate goods and
mechanical engineering industries.
30.       Rapid economic growth has led to an annual increase in the demand
for capital goods which exceeded 20 percent in recent years. Total domestic
demand for capital goods over the next 10-year period is estimated to be on
the order of US$375 billion equivalent.



- 9 -
31.       Domestic manufacture of capital goods has increased by 11 percent
per annum in recent years, and now accounts for about 11 percent of manufactured
output. Domestic production now supplies about half of the Mexican capital
goods market. However, the share of imported capital goods, which had declined
in the early 70's, has risen from 36 percent in 1978 to 42 percent in 1980 as a
result of the developments reviewed in para. 13.
32.       The capital goods industry is relatively underdeveloped in Mexico
and lags behind its potential. In comparison to the Mexican situation cited in
para. 31, capital goods account for 15 to 20 percent of industrial production
in Argentina and Brazil, and Brazil produces about 80 percent of its capital
goods needs.
33.       The development of the capital goods industry has been limited by
three factors. First, there was no unified policy to promote capital goods
industries. The subsector was subject to low levels of nominal protection which
at times of overvalued exchange rates led to negative net effective protection.
Export incentives have also been inadequate. Second, the development of the
subsector has been constrained by technical, structural and information
deficiencies. Third, inadequate credit facilities to support domestic pro-
duction and sales of capital goods, and a lack of expertise and coordination
among the financial institutions in helping sophisticated capital goods
manufacturing projects, have weakened the competitive position of Mexican
firms vis-a-vis foreign suppliers.
Policy Framework
34.       Protection policy has undergone considerable review by Mexican
authorities in the wake of the decision to resume the float of the peso.
Tariff protection has been recently reduced on a larger number of items,
including investment goods, and the Administration has announced that it will
pursue a policy of continued opening of the economy to foreign competition.
35.       The government's protection policy emphasizes the promotion of
industries that can become internationally competitive through temporary
and reasonable tariffs and import licensing. The goal is that prices of
domestically manufactured capital goods should be no more than 15 percent
above prices of similar goods in their national markets. Tariff levels on
mature industries would be set so as to be consistent with this goal.  Infant
industries would receive greater levels of protection through higher tariffs
and import permits for a fixed period not exceeding five years. These policies
are summarized in a policy statement, a draft of which has been reviewed
with the Bank. Receipt of the approved policy statement, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of draft
Loan Agreement), and the policies would be changed only in agreement with
the Bank (Section 3.07 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
36.       Measures have been taken to stimulate exports. These include provision
of sales financing and risk insurance for exports at interest rates competitive
with those charged by export credit agencies in the main capital goods exporting
countries, rebates for indirect taxes and import tariffs on inputs, and
special incentives for industries to achieve international competitiveness.



- 10 -
37.       Fiscal incentives are provided for investment in capital goods producing
industries. Investments for expansion or creation of capital goods manufacture
are eligible for a 20 percent investment tax credit and an additional tax credit
proportional to the number of new jobs created. A 10 percent tax credit is
granted to investments by enterprises which agree to meet targets for exports
and foreign exchange earnings. Purchasers of domestically manufactured capital
goods are eligible for a tax rebate equal to 15 percent of the purchase price.
38.       To be eligible for these incentives, capital goods manufacturers
must agree to meet targets for production, prices, domestic content, and
exports. Enterprises must commit themselves to achieving prices in the medium
run which are not more than 15 percent above the price prevailing in the
domestic market in the country of origin of the technology. Normally, enter-
prises must reach at least 50 percent domestic value added within five years
and export a reasonable proportion of production. Sanctions of up to four
times the original tax credit can be applied if the agreed targets are not
met.
Main Factors Affecting Capital Goods Industries Development
39.       Technology absorption and development.  While Mexican companies have
absorbed new technologies from their foreign partners, few have made great
efforts to adapt or develop new technologies. To stimulate such activities,
the government is now providing a broad range of tax credits for promoting:
(a) institutions devoted to technological research, development, or adaptation,
technological assistance and the elaboration of basic engineering designs;
(b) technological research, development and adaptation activities by productive
enterprises; and (c) the sales of the technology developed by domestic enter-
prises. FONEI has initiated a program for financing such activities on a
risk-sharing basis which would be supported under the proposed project.
40.       Subcontracting.  Excessive vertical integration is evident among
many Mexican capital goods industries. The lack of specialization in component
manufacture and the relatively small use of subcontracting has led to a
fragmented market and insufficient specialization in the production of many
capital goods components. To correct this trend, the government has initiated
a system of subcontracting exchanges where small and medium enterprises can
make known to larger enterprises their capabilities to supply parts, components
or services. These efforts would be complemented under the proposed project
through financing of technical assistance to component manufacturers and the
assessment of subcontracting possibilities as part of the appraisal of
specific investment projects.
41.       Information Dissemination System.  Insufficient dissemination of
information regarding the subsector has increased the uncertainties associated
with investments in capital goods projects and makes it difficult for the
private sector to plan its investments. The proposed project would help
establish a broader and more effective information dissemination system which
consolidates available information on current and projected installed capacities,
technologies, domestic and international markets for capital goods and their
components, supply-demand characteristics and other factors.



- 11 -
42.       Engineering Software.  Mexican industry has not generally developed
the capacity to design and engineer complete plants as opposed to pieces of
hardware. This is a major area with potential for future growth, Such a
capability would also help Mexican companies to expand into service areas
by providing their clients with maintenance services and technical assistance
in plant operation.
43.       Technical Standards.  Mexico has yet to develop an agreed set of
engineering standards to ensure interchangability of components and provide
assured performance and reliability. In the interim most enterprises are
relying on various international standards. A comprehensive program has begun
4         to establish a national standards system which would be supported under the
proposed project. Such a system would also facilitate the expansion of
subcontracting.
44.       Technical Manpower and Training Needs.  The shortage of qualified
manpower with the skills and experience required to manufacture capital goods
is a serious constraint. The deficiencies are most critical at the skilled
worker and technician levels but are also evident at the professional and
managerial levels. Although there are many public, semi-public and private
institutions providing technical training at various levels, industry representa-
tives need to be better informed about the various existing training facilities
and their suitability for each industry's specific requirements. Steps would
be taken as part of the proposed project to address these deficiencies.
Financing
45.       The main source of industrial finance has been the banking system,
which accounts for over three-fourths of the total financial intermediation
in the country. There are 64 bank chains in Mexico with around 4,500 branch
offices. Multipurpose banks offering a full range of banking services account
for 90 percent of bank assets. Most are privately owned, and several have
majority government ownership. Despite rapid growth in the 1970's, the
securities market plays only a limited role.
46.       NAFINSA is the most important public bank serving the industrial
sector. It provides commercial banking services, makes equity investments,
conducts industrial promotion, administers several government trust funds
(para 47), and acts as agent of the government to borrow abroad. 1/  SOMEX,
a banking conglomerate that functions as a private sector organization although
the government has a controlling share, is another important source of indus-
trial finance. A SOMEX subsidiary, SOMEX Industrial Development (FISOMEX),
makes equity investments in industrial enterprises, and has acquired an
important position in three general areas - engineering equipment, transporta-
tion equipment, and product engineering.
47.       To improve the amount and terms of credit available to industry
and to provide additional financial resources to priority sectors, the govern-
ment developed a system of trust funds, most of which make available additional
loan funds through the banking system. The most important funds supporting the
1/   NAFINSA has been the borrower (as Government's agent) for the majority
of Bank loans to Mexico.



- 12 -
industrial sector are those managed by NAFINSA -- FOGAIN (credit to small- and
medium-scale industry), FOMIN (risk capital to small- and medium-scale industry),
FIDEIN (promotion and development of industrial estates), and FONEP (financing
of pre-investment and other studies in connection with project preparation)--
and those administered by the Banco de Mexico, including FONEI (term financing
for export and efficient import substituting investment projects) and FOMEX
(pre- and post-export financing).
48.       Because of the relatively long maturation periods for capital
goods industries, the availability of long-term finance is important.
Most commercial bank loans have maturities of less than 5 years. NAFINSA,
SOMEX, and the trust funds are the largest sources of long-term finance; they
provided over US$350 million in long-term credit for capital goods industries
in 1980.
49.       Interest rate policies have been shaped by the need to mobilize
private savings in the face of high domestic rates of inflation and no
restrictions on international movement of capital. Variable interest rate
savings instruments have been successfully introduced, while differential
reserve requirements on peso and dollar deposits have prevented excessive
"dollarization" of domestic savings. The need to preserve a substantial
differential with respect to world interest rates and the persistence of
substantial inflation have exerted continuing upward pressure on the cost
of funds to the banking system; the index of average cost of funds to the
banking system (ACF) has risen by 80 percent over the last two years and now
stands at about 34 percent per annum. Under the proposed project, credit
would be provided at interest rates that vary with movements of the ACF
(para 66).
Past Operations in the Sector
50.       The Bank has made four loans to FONEI totaling US$360 million.
About one third of the financing provided by FONEI has gone for capital goods
industries. The balance has gone for chemical, petrochemical, other manufac-
turing, and service industries. Execution of these loans has progressively
improved (para 52); subprojects have been well prepared and properly appraised.
Most sub-projects have been carried out successfully with actual output,
exports, and employment exceeding appraisal projections. Appraisal estimates
of economic rates of return for sub-projects, mostly in the range of 20 to
40 percent, appear to have been met in practice by the majority of sub-projects.
51.       A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the First and Second
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Projects (SecM79-535) of June 1979 commented
on two important aspects of FONEI's early operations:
(a)  Given FONEI's attractive onlending interest rates (which
proved to be below the rates offered by Mexican banks to their
best clients), the relatively small spreads allowed to FONEI's
participating intermediaries, and the prevailing conditions of
credit rationing, the intermediary banks (which assume the full
credit risks) tended to allocate loans preferentially to their
'prime' borrowers; this led to a disproportionately high concen-
tration of FONEI's lending in large and well-established
borrowers; and



- 13 -
(b) FONEI made little progress towards achieving its objective, set under
the second Bank loan, of encouraging the intermediaries to use
project appraisals as a major input to their lending decisions,
rather than lending primarily on the basis of loan collateral.
At the same time, the report acknowledged that FONEI financed sound investments
that resulted in substantial foreign exchange savings.
52.       The difficulties noted in the PPAR are in large part due to the fact
that FONEI, in the period covered by the PPAR, was a new institution. Each of
these difficulties has been addressed in the Third and Fourth projects subse-
quently approved by the Bank. FONEI's onlending rates have since been increased
and are now on a floating basis linked to the ACF index (para. 66). Interest
rate spreads to participating banks have been increased to reasonable levels
to provide an incentive for banks to assume greater lending risks in the
utilization of FONEI rediscounts and to participate more actively in the
appraisal and supervision of investment projects. Recent evidence indicates
that these measures, together with changes in the banking law, have helped to
reduce banks' collateral requirements and to increase appraisal-based lending.
FONEI's lending is also becoming increasingly diversified, with a lower propor-
tion of the subloans going to the largest clients. FONEI's loan portfolio at
year-end 1981 was distributed among 270 companies of which 86 borrowed from
FONEI for the first time in 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       A report entitled "Capital Goods Industries Development Project"
(No. 3756b-ME dated April 15, 1982) is being distributed separately. Negotia-
tions for the Loan took place in Washington, D.C. on April 1-9. The Mexican
delegation was led by Mr. Pedro Galicia of NAFINSA.
Project Objectives
54.       The proposed project would form the first phase of a long range Capital
Goods Industries Development Program (the Program) whose objective is to achieve
a balanced and efficient development of the Mexican capital goods manufacturing
subsector and thus help improve productivity, employment, balance of payments and
technology assimilation and development in Mexico. To this end the project would
help correct existing technical structural, and other deficiencies in the subsector
and would provide the needed financial and technical assistance to individual
capital goods manufacturing industries.
Project Description
55.       The project includes two main components.  The first is provision
of finance for establishment or expansion of medium-sized capital goods
manufacturing industries, sales, and technical assistance. The second
component would be complementary measures to benefit the entire capital
goods manufacturing sub-sector by providing technical training, technological
information services, and studies to assist industries and institutions
participating in the Program. These components are described in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report.



- 14 -
Project Cost
56.       The project, which represents the first 2-3 years of the Program,
is estimated to cost US$1,147 million of which US$522 million would be in
foreign exchange. The project would finance 40-60 investment subloans,
10-15 equity investments, 20-30 technical assistance subloans, and 5-10
technology development loans. The final distribution of project cost will
depend on the aggregate of the financial plans of the industries supported
under the project. The estimated cost of each project component is presented
in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Finance
57.       The project would be financed by the resources of the beneficiary
industries and their technical partners, loans from domestic and foreign
commercial banks and bilateral sources, resources of the principal agencies
implementing the Program (NAFINSA, FONEI, FOMEX, SOMEX), and the proposed
Bank loan. The financial plan for the project is given in the Loan and
Project Summary. Incremental sales financing, of about US$200 million equiva-
lent would be made available by FOMEX and would not be financed by the Bank.
The proposed US$152.3 million Bank loan would finance about thirty percent of
the project's foreign exchange cost, and includes a capitalized front-end fee
on the Bank Loan of about US$2.3 million.
Co-financing Arrangements
58.       The remaining foreign exchange needs would be partly covered by
NAFINSA, FONEI, and SOMEX which would raise US$150 million from banks,
suppliers, and bilateral sources. Each institution has experience in
raising such funds. Some of the necessary funds have been contracted;
for example, NAFINSA has concluded bilateral agreements with 13 European,
Asian, and American countries 1/ for funds that would be utilized under
the Program. SOMEX and some of the private banks participating through
FONEI also have access to open lines of credit offered by the official export
credit agencies. Efforts would be made during project implementation to
increase such facilities to help provide the private sector an easier access
and a greater choice among foreign credits.
59.       The balance of foreign exchange needs, estimated to total about
US$220 million, would be provided through foreign borrowings by beneficiaries
or the participating local banks, supplier credits, and equity contributions
by foreign technical partners. Equity investments would also be fostered by
NAFINSA's program of "coinvestment funds," under which NAFINSA and a foreign
bank together make a minority equity investment in a joint venture between
Mexican industries and partners from the respective foreign country.
60.       Adequate resources are available under the arrangements discussed
above to ensure initiation of the project. Because the resources are needed
by beneficiary enterprises on a gradual basis, much of the cofinancing will
be arranged in the course of project execution. The financial plan for
each proposed industrial development subproject under the project would be
reviewed during subproject appraisals to ensure the soundness and the avail-
ability of complementary external resources.
1/   Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, France, Italy, Japan, Norway,
Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.



- 15 -
Implementing Agencies
61.       NAFINSA, SOMEX, and FONEI would provide investment financing under
the project. Loans would be made by NAFINSA, Banco Mexicano SOMEX (SOMEX's
banking subsidiary) and FONEI, and NAFINSA and FISOMEX (the industrial holding
company subsidiary of SOMEX) would make equity investments. FONEI would also
provide credit for technical assistance and technology development. FOMEX,
the Bank of Mexico trust fund specializing in export and sales finance, would
provide sales financing. These agencies have demonstrated in the past their
capacity to function effectively in their respective spheres of action, and
are together expected to support a balanced mix of capital goods projects.
Program Coordination
62. The Coordinating Committee on Financing for the Capital Goods Industrial
Development Program (COCOFIN) would oversee the implementation of the Program.
COCOFIN is chaired by the Secretary of Finance and includes representatives of
all implementing agencies. It would establish operating policies and guidelines
for the Program, ensure that subprojects submitted for financing under the
Program are consistent with these policies, review the progress achieved by
each of the implementing agencies in achieving Program objectives, and supervise
the channeling of Program resources. In view of the institutional maturity of
the principal implementing agencies, the COCOFIN would grant them considerable
operational autonomy. COCOFIN would pay particular attention to ensuring the
implementation of the training, information dissemination, technical assistance
and other complementary measures included as part of the Program.
63.       A Technical Secretariat within NAFINSA would assist COCOFIN in its
day-to-day activities. It would be responsible for the operational and
administrative aspects of channeling the Program resources to the principal
implementing agencies for approved projects, collection of respective repayments
from the agencies to the Program, and maintenance of a separate account for
the Program to record major inflows and outflows and facilitate monitoring.
It would also assist COCOFIN in annual allocations of Program resources and in
monitoring the use of these resources by participating agencies. The individual
agencies would be responsible for project appraisal and supervision. However,
COCOFIN, through its Technical Secretariat, would conduct periodic reviews of
projects financed with Program resources in order to verify compliance with
Program rules.  The arrangements would substantially preserve the autonomy of
the individual agencies in project evaluation and supervision and would not
imply unduly cumbersome procedures.
64.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be made available through a project
account in NAFINSA to each of the executing agencies to finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of fixed asset loans, equity investments, and operations
for the financing of the technical assistance or technology research, development
and adaptation. The implementing agencies would repay such proceeds to the
project account in accordance with the subloan amortization schedule and at an
interest rate four points lower than the subloan interest rate. Resources
used for equity investments would be treated as subloans with a 13 year maturity.



- 16 -
The Government would assume responsibility for repayment of the Bank loan,
entrusting the repayments mentioned above to NAFINSA for relending under the
Program (Section 3.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financing Limits, Terms and Conditions
65.       Consistent with the proposed focus on the development of medium
size capital goods industries projects, only projects with total investment
costs below US$50 million equivalent would be financed. Most of the projects
financed are expected to involve total investment costs in the US$5-40 million
range. To avoid undue concentration of Bank funds, a maximum limit of US$10 mil-
lion would be applicable for total Bank financing of any single project. Enter-
prises receiving loans under the Program would be required to provide at least
20 percent of the total investment costs of the project financed. In the case
of equity investments, Bank financing for a single project would be limited to
one half of the total equity contribution by the respective implementing
agency in connection with the project, subject to a maximum of $2 million
in Bank financing per project. Moreover, no Bank funds would be available
for financing loans to enterprises in which the financial agency making the
loan holds majority ownership. Total disbursement from the Bank loan for any
individual project would be limited to one fourth of the total estimated
project cost. The above limits are summarized in Section 2.02(e) of the
draft Loan Agreement.
66.       Investment subloans to final beneficiaries would bear variable
interest rates, adjustable every six months to equal the latest monthly ACF
index plus 2 percent, and the maximum amortization period would be 13 years
including not more than 3 years of grace (Section 4.03 of draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b) of draft Banco de Mexico Project Agreement, and Section 2.04 of
draft SOMEX Project Agreement).  FONEI's subloans for financing technical
assistance would bear onlending interest rates of 3 percentage points below the
ACF; financing for technology research, development and adaptation activities on
a risk-sharing basis would be on terms and conditions consistent with FONEI's
operating regulations which allows FONEI to lend at ACF less three points or
to provide grants of up to 30 percent of an enterprise's research budget for
high priority research. The ACF tends to move in parallel with the inflation
rate, so that over the life of the subloans the proposed on-lending rates can be
expected to be positive in real terms.
67.       All project appraisals accompanying requests for Bank financing
under the Program would have to contain a full analysis of the incremental
economic impact of the project, including an economic rate of return calcula-
tion following guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; appraisals for investment
projects would also have to include an adequate consideration of subcontracting
possibilities and training needs.
Approval Limits
68.       Prior Bank approval would be required for:  (a) the first three
fixed asset subloans submitted by each implementing agency; (b) all fixed
assets subloans involving more than US$2.0 million in Bank financing;
(c) all equity investments requiring Bank financing of more than US$1.0
million; (d) all equity investments by participating agencies in enterprises
in which they already hold or are expected to hold a majority ownership;



- 17 -
and (e) all subloans for technical assistance financing or financing of
risk-sharing contracts which involve Bank funds of US$200,000 equivalent
or more (Section 2.02(c) and (d) of draft Loan Agreement).
Operating Regulations
69.       The arrangements discussed above for Program coordination, channeling
and repayment of funds, maximum amounts, terms and conditions of financing,
onlending interest rates, and criteria and responsibilities for project
evaluation and supervision have been incorporated in the operating regulations
of the Program. Any substantial change in the operating regulations would have
to be agreeable to the Bank (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution Paper
70.       In view of the complexity of the project and to facilitate close
monitoring of progress, a project execution paper providing the full details
and time schedules for implementing each of the project components has been
prepared. The paper includes details of the division of responsibilities
among the implementing agencies, the arrangements to review periodically
the adequacy of the policy framework for the capital goods manufacturing
subsector, and a description of the training, technical assistance and other
complementary measures. The provisions of the paper would be applied under
the project and would be changed only in agreement with the Bank (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Annual Reviews
71.       COCOFIN and the implementing agencies would carry out joint annual
reviews of the project in which the Bank would participate. The reviews would
cover the adequacy of the policy framework relevant to capital goods industries,
progress on the financing components, and implementation of the complementary
measures with a view to identify any needed adjustments in the Program's
design, financing conditions, subproject selection criteria or implementation
procedures.
Disbursements
72.       Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be made for up to
the following percentages of costs of individual items financed through
subloans, equity investments, or the complementary measures under the Program:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or services
contracted for implementing the technical assistance activities and other
complementary measures under the Program; (b) 70% of total expenditures
for imported equipment purchased off-the-shelf in Mexico; and (c) 45% of
ex-factory cost for domestically manufactured equipment.



- 18 -
Procurement
73.       The principal implementing agencies are responsible for ensuring
the competitiveness in price and quality of items procured and their suitability
for the purpose intended. Subloan contracts signed by them with the client
enterprises or participating banks (in case of FONEI) would contain provisions
to ensure satisfactory procurement procedures including requirements to
provide evidence of adequate international shopping. These provisions are
reflected in the Program's operating regulations.
Audit
74.       The accounts of NAFINSA, FONEI, Banco Mexicano SOMEX and FISOMEX,
including those to be kept for purposes of the project, would be audited
yearly according to standards acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02 of draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 of draft Banco de Mexico Project Agreement, and
Section 3.02 of draft SOMEX Project Agreement).
Project Benefits
75.       The proposed project is expected to help the efficient development
of the capital goods manufacturing subsector in Mexico through the financial
assistance, policy measures and other complementary measures to remove some
of the existing structural and technical deficiencies. It would thereby
support the development of a subsector whose growth is critical to Mexico's
immediate and long-term needs. The project would have important effects in
increasing employment, promoting deconcentration of industrial activities, and
generating or saving foreign exchange.
76.       Most projects are expected to have real economic rates of return
(ERR) in the 15-35% range. ERRs would be calculated for all investment
projects to ensure that loan resources are used only for efficient projects.
Between 20,000 and 24,000 incremental jobs are expected to be generated by the
investments supported at an average investment cost of about US$38,000 to
42,000 equivalent per job. Since capital goods industries tend to have
particularly strong forward and backward linkages with other parts of the
economy, the indirect impact on production as well as employment would be
substantial. An important regional development impact is also expected as a
result of the existing incentives that encourage industrial decentralization
away from the big cities. About 60 percent of the investment projects supported
can be expected to be located in the highest priority zone identified for new
industrial development, and less than one-tenth of the investments are likely
to be in areas in the immediate vicinity of Mexico City.  Total foreign
exchange earnings or savings of US$2-3 billion are expected during the first
five years of operation of the subprojects supported; exports generated by
the projects would account for US$500-600 million equivalent of this amount.
Perhaps the most important long term gain would be the technology absorption
and development which would accompany capital goods manufacturing projects
which would have substantial unquantifiable effects on productivity,
employment and balance of payments.



- 19 -
Project Risks
77.       The project involves two kinds of risks.  First, the government
could hesitate to make the appropriate adjustments in the protection policies
in the light of future macro-economic changes, which could encourage ineffi-
ciency among some capital goods producers. The understandings on this point
reflected in the recent policy statement and the proposed annual reviews would
help to contain this risk to within acceptable limits. Moreover, two major
public enterprises, PEMEX, the national petroleum company, and CFE, the
national power company, which account for substantial capital goods purchases
in the country, have stated their desire to purchase domestic equipment at
*       competitive prices that are within the 15 percent margin over international
quotations. Second, the Program involves complex institutional and coordination
arrangements. Effective management and coordination on the part of COCOFIN,
including delegation of the operational tasks to specialized agencies, are
required. The substantial prior experience of the implementing agencies and
the provisions of the project execution paper (para 70) would facilitate
monitoring and would help limit this institutional risk. On the whole, the
project presents a moderate degree of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A.,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco Mexicano SOMEX and
FISOMEX, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
79.       A special condition of Loan Effectiveness would be that the Statement
of Policy on Protection, satisfactory to the Bank, had been received (para 35).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      977.2               1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US0)                   400.0       750.0    1640.0*                1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      769.2       1141.0    1672.7                 1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36369.0       50313.0   65509.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8          59.0       65.9                  64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        108.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          188.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULAT'ON IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.4         25.5       33.2                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0       65.1                  94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5       45.3                  40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0       51.2                  55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.4         3.5        3.5                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1         3.2        2.9                   2.4                       1.5
L'RBAN                              4.9          4.8        4.2                   3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BSNTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.0        42.3       36.0                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       12.0         9.0        7.3                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.2        2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1      842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..            .       40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOCD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71'100)           97.0        100.0      101.0                108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        112.0     114.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0       66.0                  65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         27.0      27.0                  34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.0         8.8        5.7                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.3          62.4       66.0                  64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             78.3        74.0       60.0                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              23.5         54.0       62.0                  65.7
URBAN                                           71.0       70.0                  79.7
RURAL                                 .         29.0       49.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  59.9
URBAN                                .,           ..         ..                  75.7
RURAL                                 .         13.0       14.O                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1798.0      1480.6    1815.0                 1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1612.2    1398.0                1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             577.6        828.1     851.0                  471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ,,       1151.2     758.0                 558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..      1350.9    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..                    ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        58.9
URBAN                                ..         80.7
RURAL                                ..         27.8



- 21 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHNTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE )  -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                80.0        104.0     116.0                 101.7                   105.9
MALE                 82.0        107.0     119.0                103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               77.0       102.0      114.0                101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0         22.0      39.0                  35.3                    66.3
MALE                 14.0         27.0      42.0                 34.9                     73.2
FEMALE                8.0         17.0      36.0                 35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0          27.0       9.0                  30.1                    28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0         46.0      41.0                 29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         13.0         14.0      17.0                  15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0         74.2      82.4                  80.0                    75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0         24.5      42.4                 42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        90.7        278.4     306.0                215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.9         59.5      88.7                 89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0           ..      66.6                  62.8                   123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0          5.0       4.2                  3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9      144"4.8   18965.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2         17.4      19.3                 22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1         45.0      36.8                 35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5         23.0      25.7                 23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2         28.8      29.0                 31.8                     42.3
MALE                                51.1         47.4      46.5                  49.0                    56.5
FEMALE                               9.2         10.1      11.2                  14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7       1.7                   1.4                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c       60.7      57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.477        3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c        9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     270.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     216.0                187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URaAN                               ..           ..     471.0                513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     471.0                362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
May, 1981
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shovwn in the
1981 World Bank Atlas are $2,130.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and 67,458
thousand.



ANN~EX I
- 22 -                                                                                  Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONSI OF SOCIAL ItOICAftOS
Notes:  Although the dat  are droa  Iron sources    e-eraly judged the motaubytato                   n  aellab~la  OFtshould. als  be totedt,hat theyT sop . no  beele
ta  only  opanable be--m  oF the lr  ofsadodd             tef In    raad concpts used by diff ltn    o ra   in rolerto   thedata.   The ltes. tn...
ttlesueful to d-strthe otde-  oa  sgltue, tndlre t-eda , sod oh-esonrine o-etit -solo  dofeeta   hen-n--                          onle
'herf-eere  geoupesraII (11 tss.aotognupoIf tbheoh.jeeo-_.n yesd1 ( s tutry nr-pnrolttnnenhehighersoereelo                                            tha thert-tty  gnouy
of the subjeotIrt-tny  (_enet foe  Copte  Surplus Ottil           urr'grou  eh Hr tdetrs   toetAfritoe al Mitddln   at e E                      hreat- beo....e of set
sooo-ultra  atlotoa)    lotaefeceora   -,ou  dora the eotsa    repoplaIon-  oigttad  -rtt--u  snore forso-                    o  rtoar   be   tyrn
sa   Ionrloe,Io..utltniebenoP             adAf Irrl         dlo   o-ngttoertaerotttrh,eeaesosroluaflItoprtthuleo
I.A150 bOld  (thousand sqAL.)                                                     Fopoletlor pet Ooo(OFoI god - totolf, uthaol. ...... ruoa t- _oplatt         roIt
Asri-ulueIt     ateat  of           .. tgirlero  -re  useed aror- h    rpesovl                       relhet  pbi-n    roaegnra   0   poot dhs to   o   o
Try pir  aIT-A  (II)f Ify  e  o  te       etOste t-urepraukt  eoe ,to-detrot  r  tnlolue.-urltopoos,hsaot  eoud    eed
Foised  y eae roneetotnetod a  dold Bnk_ tla   (9l-e    hel)fly,adndts  Ie   ttpoee.Fyeofd  oapyica   bth
1911, end 1919 Ists.                                                                       ae"dIl,oal,r Iaestanort.,, oenI elif,   et. Iabtb ufa   topo tet -rad
ld          ie f.'I                                b~~ ~ ~~~~~iseo Ir rore.   a Pile  tag  of nedla  toi_tes         orsts
and ligeit, p      rtone., c         kragin  t hye.dne-,  ur at so  g        9tnsllo                 o   usloftt    rto   usiha  el r9sFa  end IIatee
lorsi, Poolty   r  ridtea  (honsodal -Aso I           At.y 11      71 910   r  19601            ISOITtIC"
dra   ooaltIorr   frtt      aI   fuhoooa    ooslc                                                   oshl    oaoso   getup of irdioldoal a aIhIho share                   -Itlgqute
irojertio pierssenerf  -rc norra.l.tr lert  ocp1 tee of6 three loelssan 1otorpledpur.i.-d-ptl     ettdd ly.rtt
tto  ltsarrmr   tbrhtreaIont   ocr  aprrpt    om                                                 cesoTertHltito1 (retra- o.t1 d-aluas If  totl,  rban,  adirts
dtoob                                                                                          A-ety  ouha.  Sigrd  oeoffbaethroh.ato. o.srt.iheldCoIl
ael fottltr tncdn fe pro noaot pupose.                                              udlusted fI  r     ..oe . tat toerel,iEq-
Fratooocroulalc-Tesrttoor   ppuortt  her  i  n  grooth.111.1.  bic                       rsr   nol-ttl   al   o   a a-Costtl   oe and fedale
t_ehithatt          7qu 0toh .daatr9e79            onloteagsnuhu-re                                 ero lsertfollaee-a-ot  p---ynee   preogaofnaste
sa-1tes ..rs....     FisI   civlol   le   ectFptnnndniot                                              eot   colteppltitt -                 n l  trot uden chi dr -age--li
ofnonnvreplareai-t C-r- enoU.thetttesyppla                     ..ioostoeoss                  rof leem..nilth          i, coea na tcee roiattsyoedl    eno
esinno   o  tehelsofth   roetedohrtenttis  f  h  ppuotorsot  ssepuis  reheonccaor  te  tfotlsoro  ae
toaeI    erll   0,sd  h  rated ol,delo  of-ertliy  tot  t  ceylcs-1                                 od rneohoo   -  onl  nl  end  es de -.Cop.te  as ....           ;setoe
Sen ftaioar    risto  is breached            - taou     77e5 yto ...e  p.tle-O                   p-huagneo.crtiri.o  tete lti-o   isotert   oepp
eeera   o  beoetted               h, hre1 1....i                       `I'I  It1 uc                       lbyolltold reses r-llige;trnsyadep             cnucsirsgesty
Porultiot leey o -setludeat_i.e
Pat so. ...  y -Ifttd-yeat%ppultOo prer soerdep  ki _intte,(100 hstfe _I of  yl             fOU oTonooI        noietlneseo.aode)-resirliaiaha
Pee ertili atyOotrud.S lrd -_,  .o...e  as.o.        o  ogncrlorl lrd                           n-re o  a  deptesrso   srnsptetttos
_cely; INtl  1911-rand 1h78 dot.                                    u..-Facth   atii--eman.  o  aondert                                                     endat  see oild F
_oeioti   Ag _ectt   tnenl-Clue   (-uyas   vnigss(S                                                  petTaey  od mroe:Iy tnet dir              ycmersOftete .dt the1
88yeea ,i and  Ieore "I"   yese  ao  over) as           1 pnetoga   o  si-ra  popu-                coeepnd f tenets.e                                                   f  e  -  i
lat -:iNO b1(,  a  191  dta.                                                                 Moltt"y_.      I  .  ltieyeorret I neterh   -  iaetsdnr   (able d.-hto ed   edsie
Po hinir                  ISt trelerern -tal-  aoirnds-i groeth raes rI totl-id-                    bcere doert -g of.ttn  sdoftrt roposnhr oge  15 reef  sodoven
peplaio;  1t9  111,an  119 Tots.                                                         ilrIeavshtteed
mus  nth lte  oetrse(-Mos    etepetaugd   feApc todtel,'Iimenies entnsdoounor b                                                                 - thl elves of nerhn-    a fnrdi
populaIon;  191   91 rd10   es                                                                   Inode..      t   sss   ubtie.. pEt thousan  ef dyouisiao  aelyidec n-t
YrreaOrruu o  tot        iAerg   on-hed  ofdugtr aTwretyoi-   bealt.isP  iteedreeoa   -nocagie-s an  Fe -h-t  eAt  a                                               etto         r o .ePi.
Permity   t. HOo i'e-yoretror.p.letia    -          kiuao l -...rtsl rombeht.ofroepor Tf   Retetner  fet  husn    NoolaIFn   - TV  .eetee   fo  bes..e   to
Psllre1   . yitonsisene    Ieeed ofsotred .oen b- fernetg                 learnd                    toootisen-tydssennganno   of TI sn   e   sett
noe  o   hidbstn    te(5-Aretloh   se_or-rnrEdetoenOerye Crultte  oe  hosn   otlrfsl- bmatearngeOt
arll are s960 o  u9 n san 19ge deoup.                                                            oloior of  'diyA gereodal                 -neetmnppe  T. deli ned seepse  in ite
P.pl.bi.. U, S-- =   '- Child-e (0-14 P                                       Pr ybltcstto rdenotedlyr  1il  to1 derordigy generalI treeh.It Ic othtdte
64 eo ....io                                                                                         to6he 'sily" idit...oeere enleast linitimePa week
pelutira osifrd tomrdtie.   PodoiosoueaedsdIsdadtikssod ure thya.toudgsdeanadie-oas
tmo Iralrdsrytcbasts. Cotood-iieooentg is.ygo  d.eb..stseoenndedmed e-it.)
rer oIatto  .        t euety  l  alo ts -frer-roa .. of e gtometh  -.. Corof  frbo                  armed fFUWTonoc   n   nmiydbtsnuigMsmnc   tdrc   n
pee      0 day 70Arail 1979 doptaopieb.   doelipoutro oot  estt rop                                     slel 190   91ed01   ee
Ore se. i ..ldtteeue   ofo    rcai         e   omsF  diteioao-   Reuie-Mroogot  faneo I- tho   toti  farmn.  feh- ep                                                      Ifeto  sadi
serFs asra estimated  ty PAl beend or~~~~~I dheci. io h ends too  berra  entA         fIcIg septetg    fttlthrfrt;lA.11 nd99dt
h,yedhat   oadeo    eioertlnmesue   oyetbs   g -edorerInnenaI -Labr-fote  n etuo..... totettotn   an.-                                                                oonete
Ifaitomr   of 80aom    f  rs   proteint per ds   o   Sgseo   omlsdih,11,md10  dn.Teeaehcdo   L'                                                                  ttpao   es
Pee o_ein ned   ti so        fo  ent-Pi and puse -froyFet  suppytof todlde
ageD geoA-ND         ee   ooida        h.aeerotfesa dNrTRepInONtIne                                     pattern,  enthit fpe.rnet  Pr reset f-pettern, en  toesnFtproe
Iaben;191 -       1911 eM  191F C diteca.                                                         sai-    g.d.d cbleoldh -iotetttdth   oelnb eno
ef age Pe  aosed  ie births.                                                                       Aboltepoeny  ecteleelIstat-aoarlna-hlmmAng    sole
her of p-pi-aasi   ebo  and diesil mitt _         eht oaqeohic n   soteac1 to ate                 TfoelnhbleF.re    t         .:       .   iIyIi                      .I
meersrp l IntSe   aI,,aeed   cofaesIfee  ontreo-t d hot uC uo-d         mhf...            Isnmand  slnn  Ponft  noodrb  .orsO fIll tents- its      te   n   na
mes    irba  ta  fes  rtetd   osMs,  spig!,    sdsoae    ellIneleietine pI                                       en    oe  tn    sosthe.fasag   e   ept
.,.esaco   h F   epotr   oottos    bIn stute -nesapobitt
loat5l  oa-dl ctoteotmotsrlblestosoesat                                                        peeleodea. PI.  ..Pltnob ottootn.       tene19sd60efoaheos
tosldna   a.  rh.1g..b I ssrtesneso   to    ra.l  rualeeakfnmaedNenene  Sle    bsoeePneeIra   tene  Irt.1 l.l f- ..b
Ili%obtaoadeoId- tplip t..t the.  toedret... or sc-hens ~Itf- n   hoahl                        sdrual-bana                   poisare. I.he a.-nd eneal she eet'abeold
doto e  Os  o send aydispoproaeprtf the  ay 1  tehrg thei                                           at'.hg                       b1.brf-;190170e179.t
Scei y.r'   ..1 ssrrsd...drg..ieee.t...Oe bd     ih.                                             d-y                ~I                        ..I
Mess  no  liseesga   i flooe  lestieeti..of     ,1~ pnusoa-tti  unha-   cod e...
te dba  ofp 1p   196165, unhan, and  19t77 dspoed by9e0resda1disposal 
Peoreitagca 21 of faElensptai  gr.s.popoLat_one    Pr.en  disposalb I mp. leo it.                 -iuds           t                          1.i: 
th  o lta5  enfd dipocl wdy   h Ne, -plthofat.enasIon  oftiesd .. tress                            It      1                        foonthd  end leha   lees. ifato
Panrd.o  ret1- seacln  P.erson    75PpuEnio_ Itf ue I  Ac_ Iabs  of rnennag
mat .s d fml F rdogeue c p              IonSl onres, en  eccssan



0                                                                                                        -
000000   a10.roa 0    £    00-a         I HOfl  0000000  Ha
0'   00000                                     0000000000-000                  000000r.  0000000   0000 00 000oO                               00000            0000000  0000
000000                                                                                                          000000a                      -  0000000
2.     za                      a  I2.            ao   ro             000r0,aa            o         r'''    2.t.;g2.    0-Oar'   00.'o000
72                 -   00                                  o..,.oO  0000000  00  0.00.                                      2.'¼.   
000  0  a  oo    0       aOO  000,000                                  00-000  0000.0
-             0                                          a                                                       00     a    a                                 ooor.o            aooa    a.  a        a
0000                       -0    aaaoaaa.roaao.-raoaa..o,oa,..Ooo   a
a                          0   0        0                          0000000                   00        0  000   a            0.o0000  0  00.00  0  0  00..0  0  a                     00   0    0    00
0                0                  000                0000000        -                  oroo a                     0000000   0000.0                         000   000   0
0                                                           0  0  00o.00o0.ooo                                       00  0
'00                                                                             0'           a      00       0      00           aaO         2.00
00                                                   00                         a            00     00   a  0       0           00           a  0000
2.           000            0   o.Ooo
I'                          Oar.-   .00              a
.-.  0                                                                            -    -    -  I'  -   -    -   -   00  -            P.             -
a      a0000                                   I a 000000000   a                        Oao.o.0.Ooaaa               0000-  -  -  *''    'a            2           aaaaar..Oaa               a
00              H    0             a ,-K aao'a 00,                                        III:                 0-               00000          0IJ<j<    00
0   a a 000000'-    000.0.   HaoOaoaaO                                            .  0000000aa00                    00a00        0 a ooa
0001                      000000     I .or.a00.-.0.Or-....          0000'    a-0.-0-...o  I''r  00 ,. o..  o a ..    .. .0.00r.    00... 000 a  .0      0000
00.                I'               a Oa                                                                                                             0
00                    00'  .00000                            00            00 .000        0'     a 000000.0000    00          a
a  0000  000000 a  00                       a     Ia        a       - - a        0000000    00  a 00.0 a  00      a 0' a 0000000,.  00 a    a
o     - - -     a             00   ooo         a a a oaar..oa                 a  -      000 a a      00 a a a      a a 00     a a 000.00-   00 .0 a 000 a  00.    Oar', a 000000  0000      0
00 00 00 a  0    a a 0. 0  00 a    a a a  a a .0 00  a 0. 0 0  a       0         0 a 00 a a   00 0- 00 a    00 00      0 0 00a0000    aa  a 0 a 0  a       a 00 a 00 00 '0 - 00  00 00  a   a
I a a 0000 [a a  F. . . .  a a    o0000                                 0  00    00a00000      00 a a a      a a a      aaaaaoaaaaooa                      ao,00 aoo a 00
0     IoUQo2. 00   00 a a  Or.                                                                                                                                                                  H
a               o                              00    ra...00a.                          ,..0000                               ..  a...'[..   0.-          a      00 0..0,000a
00                                            UK           00                 000       00.0.0000    0000.0                                               -
.0       00                                                    0    aaaOaaoo  0.0 0'  -0  aaaa..0  [00             000,00000000
'00000  000000  0                  a     , oOOO  a  0000000  o    000a  00  00aa0oo    00  000000.0,0   or. oa0 oaaaoaa    0,
[a aoa                ,      "2:         77; .'7.'..                    0                                    Oaa0000aa a 00   00000000  po  0  0000000000   0.00  0   a
FaOaO  U   Hoaa  [2.         aoa         a 0000.  000000  0             00 00    00aa0000                    00a,.  no  00000000Ža    aOOOa0.  0  or  000000a000a                    '   a
0.000.0.     [....           a  a                                                                                   0                                   0
o     K> a a    a0.-oO  0
00     00000                                                                       1             o           L.o          a
0                  0                          '00                                             0      0.0.0 00  [-0                          a    a         a  0    a a a a
00000000,00                             aaaaaOO  0                               a00000                             00000000   0 0000000 0 OaOo,oaa 00
00    00.000a[                                F                                                                            0---a
00000   00000  0                                                    00        a         0-  00000  0    aao.  0  0  000000   00  000000   0000,00000000000
00                00  00000000,00'                          00 00 00
00    0000a00a      00a000        0000                    I
00000,0      000000  0                  00000000  orooC  0'            0- 0      Oar.. 00a0                  00000     00                0-0000  0         00000000..   000  00  0
0000       000000000000000                00                                                           ,.       ["£I>o'  0000000000
aa,..000.0   a            00 0 0       o a      oaa'. o       o0000'-- 00  0       00
O               0             F    oooo       Hoar..
0                                  0000
aaa   'oa           '                000000000                                     a-                                                                                                              00
000'0000                              ao...o0    FOaar.00000'000000000a                                             On
I-a .0 a olO 000000000 [a
00 oaoaa aooO 00 aaa 00 aoao or..00r..000 00 000000000a
000000 a 000000000 a0000.00 00000000 000000 0000 oaooa 00 00000000 [00 0a00000 0000 0000 a 00 Fr
-     000000 00   0000000  00                  0000   00000  00                   000000000                        0000       00-0000000   00  000.0000  a  0  00000000000000
00000.00.. . .
0               F
00000  , ,   . .                      a  000000K           o.o000000000000
'.000000                000000000000000   00               000000000   000
a  F-I                00000   0000   0               00  00  0000 00000     0000 a        a 000      Ooaoo 00  00  0000  000  00    -000- 000000 00 20
00000                                     000        aooo        00000..       0a00       0000000000000-000000               0000000000000  -            000           H
[oo a 'o [a                                                                                                                                                                   0
00000000                000 OoO0.   00 000   00             o                ...
.0.000    0  Oa. 000'0         00000000a'.a0   000       00
00                                                                                 0  000000000r               '00    0000000000000   Ca        0000             p-n
"0000         a'00       000.00..   00 000   ooFo           00000.000-00   0000                        0
0000. HF       000   a                                                           OaO00         000        0000000    000         2.0000.     000000000    000            0
Hw:OoO00   '0000000  001    ...    I
Iaoaaro   0.                000000  0                                                                                                                                                00
0             0                                                                                                                                                             00
0             00          00                                                        000000                   000000000000000    000000000  a00
00  00 00000 0                                                                       .0a01 0000...I -
00000000000000    00000 a0000 00   00
00                 000000                                                           000000        0000       00-a 0000    00 000  000           Oooooo...o   00-          00
00000  00                                                                        >          r'oo'   00  00  00   o         00000.000-000   -00       000
00000         0000       000000000    00  000  0000  00     0.00000000000000            00
]a'          00000   7                                         0
00           OF                 OoaOaOOa                                              00000                    a      0,000.              00     00000a--00         0
0 00 000  000,00                                     00 00 00 0               0      0      000000000            00000000 0         00
0000          000       00 00000    00000000   a            oaoo-oa    00o           10
000 00 0      0 0 00    0 0. 0 0 0000   00  000  00-  00    00000000.00 00  0 00    00
10                            00000000         000     0000000000000000   00               0000000000000   >00      00
000.00000    a  000  000  0          00a00000000   0000      -
00-                             .,.                      00.00 Ia    oOO.0>00 '00   2.1
00000     00  0000000   00  000000
00000    00  0000  00 For       00000o00O0.a
00                              o>->           '      2.a2.            .00000000  '0     0000000000
00000000      00000     00000000    00  00000-000 20        000000000000000  <0
o>o-    S>o.  2. 0000000000                                 00
00000000   0        >00  00     000000.000000    00      00
0000          0-00      a  0000000   a00a   000000         000000000a0o   to
00-00                                 a             -                   -
00  -    .0    0  000    000'    ao           000   .0      00
0000000                 000000    ,ooo.a-.,alon'n.,00000.oOaO                        a
00.00 00 0 0 0 00 a 00 0 00
OOa                     0000    000.001000                              -            [or.
000000                  0*00000    00oo'.0  00  0  000.000  0000    00              01
-  ..                                                   0000000000 a 0000000         100
000000                  00 0000000    0  00000000  00 00  000000000000000
00                             00
000                     0       00    0   000  a00  00000000000               00     F -
000000                  00 00 000000   0   0001 -0  00    000000 0 00000  000       00
0000                    0  0 00000   0   00  000  00    000000   0000  000



a                                                 a
a-       a  -a-.  a  a    a-a-aC.-.,-.  -aa  ala    -itaHnCa---aa
a        a       a  aaaaa   a    aaalaaa   an   a-a    aaaaal--alaa
a-    a  12  a  111    wan    -a-il--a           ataata      an   aa-.aa i-aa.-li-,,--a a
a.-..-  a    a-awn       -    aaaai--a.laaalaaao   a
ltaaaaa   a    a.-a-.           -.it  li1allai--albO  aa-Iaaa
n-an   anna-.  a        i--a       an   a  -annnananaa.-.
aaa       alil'I        aaiia-         a    Cilia  an-n   lnaaa   a
a  alto-n       i--a-an   aal-.a a  a    nialna      a    a-lana          -ann        I
a  aliaClD  .ini-an    la-i  an   a    a-na,-        Ia-  aVaina1H    a-  .--.--  -
an.-..      i-aa    a  ca-a  a                    a a    .--lvnal--a-i an   wi--a  i-i
a           aa1ltaaaalt
a-i-Ca-  COCOa--a  anal-I  -na.---  a  .    a    a                     a  ala   na-i--  -a
a  a        a .a  na-a-a  an-a-i a  a    a    -        - a-  a     a-na- a        laIn  In
naIl    an   Qa   nllaa         a-aa                     an  -.-     Ha1Oaa         a-w
anal,  a    -a  an-la    an li-a                        aa   I      nana   an
na a  a- a  -a   alan      wana           a
a   *a. a  a           anon    a  0           a
a.  a-a   a   a        aa-        a                        an
an   an            a-
-<  a   a  aa   a   a-                     a                 a      a
a    a  a   a                     a                 0      '
a     a   a-                  -.                a      a
a  a     a                        a                 a      -
a  a                              a                 a
C                a                             a                 a      a
n.a-aa-         a    a            a-aaaaa-,-ia  a-a-an.a-
-    a          aa-.a-aaa               aaaa I a          aa aa-aa.a yaa-aa a
a    a  a      a  a    aaaa            anaa-  a          a iaa-aaaaaaaa.- a a
a  a      a  a    aaCa             aaCa   a          aa-aaala C,aaaCa-iat-
a    a-         a                      ba,  a       -a-an-
-                                 I   I.    -        -        I a
n-a-a.,         Ca  -  a          a  a.t-a-.Ja,--aaala n-ca   I-ac
a  -a  C    a  a      a  a    a-a-C---         CC  a  a.         aa-a-aa-C aaa-a-C'a a
a    a  a       a  a    .aaa-.          aa  a  a          a laan-aaaa.aaaaa-a
Ii      I       I                   a.
a-a-aC         a                    a-a-a-a  -      a
n-a-a-a      -a-al-la   -       aCa-aaaaaaa-alaai
aa-a,aa-               aiC.aa-   a       Caa-aaaaan.Caa-aa    -
a-   a  a       a  a    lla-a           CLa-.a-a          a aaaaiJla-aaaa-aa a
a  a      aaaa--a-a                a-.aa--a   a      a-a-C.aa.aaaaa-aaaa
a    a    -    a                             I
aaa-a    -    a-                -   a-aaa  a.       aa-aa-
-aa.a.a        a  a-a   a         a- a-aa-a-.aaaaa Ca-Ca    I a         ta
a  a          a    a-a-aC          Caa-ala           a an-a- Ca.aa-a-aaiaaa    (-a
a    a  a       a  a    an-a--          aaa-b   a         a-aaania--aa a-Ca-ia-a-   a
a-   a  a       a  a-   aaaa            aaa    a          .aaaaaa.aaaa-Caa
0-                                                               I  I      I       I  Ia-a
-    a                 aabb-.Oaa- a      aaaia
-    -   -   -  -                                             I a
l a    aaaa             .anaC  'a         aa-a--a-aa-an.a-aa aaa lnaa.a.  C  a-a   a  aa..aiaaiaai.ia--    I a  a-
I-n   a  a      a  a    alaa                    a        aaaaa-aaaaaaa-o-a    IC
a    a  a       a  a-   a-a a-a         aaaC    a         .naa-aiaCaaCa Ca
a         a                   I I.-,   a      I
aaa-a-         a                    abaaaa         aaaa        ala     C
i                                        -   ImlI
a               aa-aa          a-ana   a          I aaaaa-aan"-Jaa-a C   a,,
a-        a  a    a.aa-a          a-a. a  I a        a a-.-aaa a Ca-aaaaa-     -           H
a  a    a  a       aaaaaa                  a- Ca a   a        Cl-.aaa Ca-wa  aa a-ia          b
o  a        a      a  a    -ana            n-a- a   C         a a-a-aa-aaa-aaaa-wa
a                                                        it
H      a- a      -a                                                        -.
a-                                                       aa.aaaaiaawa-aa
anna    a-n-
a  -    aa                                     I  I a    I       I  a-a
a                                                   I----    I -
it        H                                   ii. U- aaa-aa aaa-aa
C                       a  ca-a Ca,aaaaaa
a aaaaa-Ct-CaanaC lao
nEC
a.  in  aa-I
al a-C aaaa-aaaa- a-n   I a                 itit
ala                           aaaaaaaa aoa--aa   I a
-k                                                                                                      -



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Loan                                                          Amount less       Undis-
No.        Year   Borrower                   Purpose         Cancellations    bursed
44 loans fully disbursed                    2,438.6
970-5    1974  NAFINSA                      Irrigation              47.0         4.2
1022       1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         0.2
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                      Integrated Rural
r                                                       Development           38.0         15.2
1111-5    1975  NAFINSA                      Irrigation              50.0        21.3
1186       1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply             40.0        11.8
1420-5    1977  NAFINSA                      Tourism                 42.0         3.0
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                      Integrated Rural
Development          120.0        25.1
1552-5    1978  NAFINSA                      Industry                47.0         1.0
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                      Agriculture             56.0        36.8
1554       1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5         9.2
1560-5    1978  NAFINSA                      Industry               100.0         4.9
969-6    1979  NAFINSA                      Irrigation              25.0         1.2
1643-5    1979  NAFINSA                      Small-scale Agri.       60.0        51.7
1671       1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0        80.8
1686-5    1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA         Industry                80.0        36.6
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                      Irrigation              92.0        82.7
1712-5    1979  NAFINSA                      Industry               175.0        97.4
1820-5    1980  NAFINSA                      Small and Medium
Scale Mining          40.0        36.1
1858-5    1980  NAFINSA                      Irrigation             160.0       159.2
1881       1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0         54.7
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                      Agricultural Credit  325.0         262.1
1908       1981  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              23.0        21.0
1913      1981  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            125.0       117.4
1929      1981  BANOBRAS                    Railways                150.0       118.3
1945       1981  NAFINSA                    Rainfed Agri.           280.0       249.3
1964       1981  BANPESCA                    Port Development        14.0        14.0
1990       1981  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development II 164.0          164.0
2042       1982  NAFINSA                     Technical Training    90.0          88.7
2043       1982  NAFINSA 2/                  Integrated Rural
Development          175.0       175.0
TOTAL                                             5,218.1 3/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                812.8
Total now outstanding                             4,405.3
Amount sold                      92.3
of which has been repaid         92.3                  0.0
Total now held by Bank 3/                         4,405.3
Total undisbursed                                             1,942.9
1/   Loan 2100, for $180 million, made in FY1982 to NAFINSA for an Irrigation
Project, was approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982, but
has not yet been signed.
2/   Loan not yet effective.
3!   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8       --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5          --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/            Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/        Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --           2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5     --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0     --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/       2/     2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9     --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                    1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0     3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper             9.0     3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0     --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/       Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,          Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0     --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard              25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                114.9            114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0     --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper             59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business            11.3     3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                 514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             382.0    22.1  404.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       132.6    14.5  147.1
Total undisbursed (including participants)               35.4      1.5   36.9
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                           Page 3 of 8
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1982). I/
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory and the project will be completed on schedule.
C          Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  US$25 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974. Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule, this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. Project components that have been completed are
achieving higher rates of utilization than envisaged at time
of appraisal because of greatly increased air traffic in
Mexico. Four of the six project airports are completed, and
the other two will be finished by mid-1982.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
Project implementation experienced delays mostly due to management
difficulties and inadequate budget support. At the borrower's
request US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
A reprogramming of the project and extension of the closing
date to December 30, 1982 were approved by the Executive Directors
on January 4, 1982 to allow completion of the modified project.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
most components of the revised project is now satisfactory.
The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully committing the loan. Five out of seven
subprojects have been completed and works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  US$42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After extension of the closing date by one year, due to
difficulties in internal coordination, the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. The loan has been fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. Disbursements
are improving.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily. Progress has also been made in the
production credit component, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. A request from the Borrower for
reallocating funds to the shelter-related components is
expected soon.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully committed.
Ln. No. 969-6  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to
be completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural
development has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened to
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, :979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong, and
most of the loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  UStSL0
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984>
Project execution is being initiated. Demand for credit
has been less than originally anticipated due to softening
of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:  December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987,
Contracting for the main civil works is progressing satisfactorily
and a strengthened technical assistance program is underway. How-
ever, disbursements are lagging behind due to delays in processing.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980;  Closing Date:  December 31, 19840
About one-third of the loan has been committed. The program
is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. The review
panels in the regional offices for speedy loan processing have
been established.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed between BANOBRAS and seven
cities, and investment proposals amounting to 88 percent of
project costs have been submitted to the Bank. Completion of
works is ahead of schedule in Toluca and Queretaro, but overall
the project is one and a half years behind schedule due to
delays in completion of final designs.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$].50 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation has begun on schedule. Staffing of the
ten project districts is near completion, and district operational
committees have been established.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule; about 40 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effective Date:  January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements is still proceeding.  Good
progress is taking place in the shelter-related component in
Tabasco, but the remaining components are suffering delays.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding rapidly.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million
Loan of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II:  US$180 million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:                 ; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982,
has not yet been signed.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time to prepare project:                About 2-1/2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                    NAFINSA/SOMEX/FONEI
(c)  First presentation to Bank:             February, 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         June, 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:            April, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          August, 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Delivery of a Statement of Policy on Protection, acceptable to the
Bank, would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (para. 35).
(b) Interest rates on investment subloans would be ACF plus 2 points;
technical assistance subloans and technology development finance
operations would bear interest rates of ACF less 3 points (para. 66).
(c)  The Bank loan would reimburse no more than one fourth of the
cost financed by an investment loan or equity investment for each
project (para. 65).
(d) The provisions of the Incentive and Protection Policy Statement,
Program Operating Regulations, and Project Implementation Paper
would be applied under the project and any changes would have to
be acceptable to the Bank (paras. 35, 69 and 70).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Prior Bank approval would be required for: (i) the first three
fixed asset subloans submitted by each implementing agency; (ii) all
fixed asset subloans involving more than US$2.0 million in Bank
financing; (iii) all equity investments requiring Bank financing
of more than US$1.0 million; (iv) all equity investments by
participating agencies in enterprises in which they already hold
or are expected to hold a majority ownership; and (v) all subloans
for technical assistance financing or financing of risk-sharing
contracts which involve Bank funds of US$200,000 equivalent or
more (para. 68).
(f) Resources provided by the Program would be repaid by the implement-
ing agencies into the Project Account, together with an interest
equal to 4.0 percentage points below the onlending interest rate
applicable on subloans. The amortization schedule for the repayments
by the implementing agencies would be identical to the amortization
schedule agreed with the final borrower in the case of subloans;
resources provided to the implementing agencies for making equity
investments would be repaid into the Project Account according to a
fixed equal principal payment amortization schedule over 13 years
including up to three years of grace (para 64).
(g) A limit of US$10 million would be applicable for total Bank financing
for any single project. Bank financing for equity investment in a
single project would be limited to one half of the total equity
contribution by the respective implementing agency in connection with
the project, subject to a maximum of US$2 million in Bank financing
per project. Moreover, no Bank funds would be available for
financing loans by implementing agencies to enterprises in which
they hold a majority ownership (para. 65).



