Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3756b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
The Mexican peso is adjusted on a floating basis. The Central Bank
withdrew from the exchange market on February 18, 1982. Immediately prior to
that date, the exchange rate was 26.9 pesos per US dollar. In recent weeks,
the peso has traded around 45 pesos per dollar.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF          Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
tBNCE          Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
CANACINTRA   Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CEDIs        Indirect tax rebate certificates provided to exporters
CENAPRO      Centro Nacional de Productividad (National Productivity Council)
CFE          Comision Federal de Electricidad (National Electricity Comission)
COCOFIN      Comite Coordinador y de Evaluacion Financiera del Programa de Desarrollo
a la Industria de Bienes de Capital (Coordinating Committee of the
Proposed Program)
CONACYT      Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
CONALEP      Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional y Tecnica
CONCAMIN     Confederacion de Camaras Industriales
FIDEIN       Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques, Ciudades Industriales y
Centros Comerciales
FISOMEX      Fomento Industrial SOMEX
FOGAIN       Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMEX        Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados
FOMIN        Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONEI        Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP        Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IMIT         Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFOTEC      Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica
NAFINSA      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
NIDP         National Industrial Development Plan
PAI          Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
PEMEX        Petroleos Mexicanos
'Program'    Capital Goods Industries Development Program which would be
supported by the proposed project
SECOM        Secretaria de Comercio (Ministry of Commerce)
SEPAFIN      Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
(Ministry of National Patrimony and Industrial Development)
SHCP         Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit)
SMI          Small and Medium Scale Industry
SOMEX        Sociedad Mexicada de Credito Industrial
SPP          Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto (Ministry of Programming
and Budgeting)
STPS.        Secretaria de Trabajo y Prevision Social (Ministry of Labor
and Social Security)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE CAPITAL GOODS PRODUCING INDUSTRIES IN MEXICO
A.    Background         .....................................                           1
Manufacturing Sector Performance ............           ..1........ 
Structure of Manufacturing ......          .............. .                       2
The Capital Goods Industries Sub-sector ..................                        3
Employment, Productivity, and Intersectoral Linkages    .....                     4
Development Potential ....................................                        4
Development Constraints and the Proposed Capital Goods
Industries Development Program .........................                        5
B.  Policy Framework.  .............d....                                                7
Policy Coordination .......         ..................                            7
Incentives System .......        ..................                               7
Protection Policy .......         ..................                              9
Public Sector Procurement  ......             ..........................         11
The Overall Balance of Protection and Incentives                  .........      11
C. Technical. Structural and Other Factors Affecting Subsectoral
Development        ........................      ......................         12
Technology Absorption and Development .....................                      13
Excessive Vertical Integration ............................                      15
Information Dissemination System ..........................                      16
Technical Standards .......................................                      17.
Engineering Software ......................................                      17
Technical Manpower Training ...............................                      18
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES FINANCING
A.    Institutional Structure ................          ..      .................      19
The Banking System ....... ..............             ...................        19
The Trust Funds ...........           .................................          20
The Securities Market ...................               ..................       21
B.   Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy ....                  ..........     21
C.   Capital Goods Industries Financing ........................                       23
Availability of Financing .................................                      23
Financing of Domestic Sales ...............................                      23
Complementary External Financing ..........................                      24
D.    Outlook       .......................... .........................               24
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
III. MAJOR PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
A.  Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) .....................        25
Project Promotion Department .............. .. ............     26
Credit Department ..................... ..................      28
B.  Organizacion SOMEX ......................................        29
Industry Wing (FISOMEX) ................ .. ...............     30
Banking Wing (Banco Mexicano SOMEX) .......... ...........      31
C.  Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) ....    ............    32
IV. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A.   The Project .............................                       35
Financing of Production ................................36
Sales Financing ..............................                  37
Complementary Measures    ..38
B.  Project Financing and Implementation .39
Financing Limits, Onlending Terms and Conditions                40
Project Cost, Financing Plan and Cofinancing   .    .40
Project Implementation and Program Coordination                 43
Channeling Arrangements and Spreads to Implementing
Agencies   ..44
Operating Regulations and Project Execution Paper               44
Annual Reviews           ...45
C. The Proposed Bank Loan .45
Loan Features    ..45
Disbursement of Bank Funds    ..46
Procurement and Auditing.                                       47
Approval Limits    ..47
D. Project Benefits and Risks .47
V. RECOMMENDATIONS    ..49
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in May/June 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. Challa, Baskind,
Voljc, Lopez-Lopez (LCP), Gonzalez (UNIDO/Bank Cooperative Program) and
Figueiredo (Consultant) and Ms. Vergara (Consultant).



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex  1     Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
Annex  2      Capital Goods Product Categories as Defined Under the
National Industrial Development Plan
Annex  3     Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Investment
Under NIDP, 1979
Annex  4      Institutional Infrastructure for Technology Development by
Industries
Annex  5      Structure of the Mexican Technical Education and Training
System for Industry
Annex  6     Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
Annex  7      Supplementary Tables
T-1:      Gross Domestic Product by Sector of Origin, 1965-80
T-2:      Gross Value of Production and Value Added in Capital Goods
Industries, 1970-1978
T-3:      Manufacturing Sector and Capital Goods Industries
Subsector, 1960-80
T-4:      Trends in and Structure of Gross Fixed Investment, 1965-1980
T-5:      Number of Enterprises in Capital Goods Industries Sub-Sector
T-6:      Employment in Manufacturing and Capital Goods Industries
Sub-Sector
T-7:      Value Added and Fixed Assets per Worker in Manufacturing
Industry (1975)
T-8:      Selected Capital Goods Exports and Imports, 1978-1980
T-9:      Financial Sector Summary Accounts
T-10:     Financial Agents' Share in Total Financial Intermediation
in 1980
T-11:     Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability Indicators
T-12:     Mexico's Largest Banks
T-13:     Liabilities of the Banking System by Instrument
T-14:     Institutional Structure of the Banking System
T-15:     Total Financing by Sector and by Type of Bank
T-16:     Banking System Credit by Sector, 1977-80
T-17:     Geographical Distribution of Credit and Deposits
T-18:     Selected Interest Rates in Mexico, USA, and London Interbank
Rates
T-19:     FOMEX's Financing for Capital Goods Industries
T-20:     Types and Characteristics of NAFINSA's Credit Operations
T-21:     NAFINSA's Domestic Currency Interest Rates to Final
Borrowers in Effect Since May 1981
T-22:     NAFINSA - Total Approvals by Sector
T-23:     NAFINSA's Approvals of Credits to Capital Goods Industries
T-24:     NAFINSA - Credit Approvals to Capital Goods Industries by
Type of Activity, 1977-80
T-25:     Banco Mexicano SOMEX--Approvals to Capital Goods Industries
T-26:     Analysis of Characteristics of FONEI's Loan Approvals, 1978-80
T-27:     Pipeline of Subprojects Presented to FONEI for Financing as
of June 30, 1981



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex  8          Supplementary Charts
C-1:          Organization Structure of NAFINSA
C-2:          Organization Structure of NAFINSA's Credit Department
C-3:          Organization Structure of Organizacion SOMEX
C-4:          Organization Structure of FISOMEX's Capital Goods
Industries Department
C-5:          Organization Structure of Credit Sub-Directorate of
Banco Mexicano SOMEX
C-6:          Organization Structure of FONEI
Annex  9          Items to be Included in the Proposed Information
Dissemination System and Training Program
Annex 10          Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



I. THE CAPITAL GOODS PRODUCING INDUSTRIES IN MEXICO
A. Background
Manufacturing Sector Performance
1.01      Manufacturing industry played a major role in the strong growth
performance of the Mexican economy in the last three decades, when per capita
GDP increased some 3% per annum despite population growth of over 3% per
annum. Manufacturing grew at over 8% annually in this period; its share in
GDP rose from 17% in 1950 to about 24% in 1980. 1/ Since 1970, the growth
rates of overall economic activity, and industrial output in particular, have
experienced relatively sharp fluctuations. The 7% annual GDP growth rates at
the beginning of the decade dropped to 2% in 1975-77, but rose to 7-8% in
1978-1980. Increases in manufacturing production similarly averaged almost 8%
in the first four years, dropped to 2% through 1977 but then recovered,
reaching some 9% in 1978 and 1979.  Partly because of infrastructural and
input constraints, the increment to industrial output in 1980 was only of the
order of 6% (Annex 7, T-1 to T-3).
1.02      The changes in industrial growth momentum experienced during the last
decade reflected changes in the macro-economic environment as well as in the
policies adopted by the different Mexican administrations. The difficulties
in the mid-years of the decade resulted from the demand management and
exchange rate policies followed earlier. The more recent period of strong
growth (1977-80) is associated with increasing earnings from oil exports, more
open trade policies involving reduced reliance on import licensing, and
crawling peg exchange rate regime introduced by the administration which took
office at the end of 1976. The emergence of a substantial hydrocarbon resource
base should help to moderate the balance of payments constraints on future
development policy.
1.03      Gross fixed capital formation has risen substantially to reach
25% of the GDP in 1979 and 1980, compared to 20% in the early 1970's (Annex 7,
T-4). Both public and private investment have increased reflecting recovery
from the relatively low investment levels earlier in the decade as well as
more optimistic expectations for the future growth of the Mexican economy and
of certain key subsectors, particularly petroleum, petrochemicals and electric
power. In the first phase of this boom, a considerable proportion of increased
demand for machinery and equipment was met from local production, through
better utilization of existing capacity. In 1979 and 1980, however, the share
of imports in total supply of equipment rose sharply, as a result of increases
of 40% and 28% respectively in the volume of those purchases, making capital
goods the largest category of imports (para. 1.08).
1.04      While prospects for rapid economic and industrial growth are good
for the medium and long-term, the macro-economic policies followed must be
conducive to sustained expansion. During 1980 and 1981 overall demand continued
1/    Manufacturing industry  under the Mexican definition excludes petroleum
refining activities.



-2-
to rise in the face of resources constraints on output and inflation remained
in the 26-30% range. Although some measures were taken in the course of
1981 to restore balance, including an accelerated crawling peg, a reversal
of the trend towards liberalization of imports and an attempt to cut back
on government expenditures, the fiscal deficit reached 14% of GDP. Moreover,
the current account deficit was equal to 9% of GDP in 1981 reflecting both
an unprecedented surge in imports and an unexpected fall in petroleum exports.
At the beginning of 1982, there were fears of a further setback in oil exports
and of an acceleration of inflation, resulting in pressures in foreign exchange
markets. On February 18, 1982, the authorities announced their withdrawal
from support of the peso which subsequently depreciated vis-a-vis the US
currency to a current level of around Mex$45 per dollar. The Government
also announced a stabilization program including additional budget cuts,
liberalization of certain basic imports (including capital goods), and
price controls. 1/
Structure of Manufacturing
1.05      The recent period of growth of manufacturing activity has witnessed
a substantial deepening of the sector. At the beginning of the 1960s, the
traditional subsectors producing basic consumer goods (including food,
clothing, shoes, pharmaceuticals and toiletries) accounted for almost
two-thirds of industrial value added. By 1970 that share had dropped to
about 55%, while metal-working and mechanical engineering industries grew
rapidly, from a base in 1960 comprised mainly of repair installations and
simple fabrication and assembly into more advanced manufactures, increasing
their share from 13% in 1960 to 18% in 1970. This trend continued through
the 1970s, as the share of the basic consumer goods industries in output
dropped further to about 50% and that of the engineering industries rose
to 22% by 1979.
Table 1.1: STRUCTURE OF VALUE ADDED IN MANUFACTURING a/
(Percentages)
1960     1970      1979
Food processing, beverages, and tobacco             36.8     26.2      25.3
Textiles, clothing, shoes and leather products   18.8        24.9      22.4
Paper and wood products (publishing)                 8.1      7.5       7.7
Basic chemicals, petrochemicals and fertilizers   4.0         4.9       4.7
Pharmaceuticals, toiletries, soaps and related    7.2         5.8       4.3
products
Non-metallic minerals and base metals               10.3      10.4     12.4
Metal products, machinery, and equipment            12.6      18.3     21.7
(of which autos and auto-parts)                   (2.2)    (3.9)    (5.7)
Miscellaneous                                        2.2       2.0      1.5
Total                                         100.0    100.0    100.0
a/   Excluding petroleum refining.
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico (unrevised series)
1/   For an earlier discussion of these matters, see also Mexico:  Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems, Bank Report No. 3605-ME, August 31, 1981.



- 3-
The Capital Goods Industries Subsector
1.06      The capital goods industries subsector 1/ has been one of the more
dynamic groups within manufacturing. Starting from a relatively low level,
output has increased some 9% in real terms annually over the last two decades
(Annex 7, T-3). The growth has been particularly pronounced recently (averag-
ing annual 11% p.a. over 1977-80). The number of enterprises engaged in
capital goods manufacture also increased more rapidly than the average for
manufacturing sector as a whole, although suffering large fluctuations (Annex
7, T-5). Nevertheless, compared with other relatively large middle and low
income countries such as Argentina, Brazil, India, and Korea, the Mexican
capital goods industries subsector remains underdeveloped. It represents only
11% of total manufacturing sector output in Mexico in recent years, compared
to about 20% for Argentina, and 15% for Brazil. 2/ Total requirements of
capital goods, on the other hand, grew rapidly over the past three years (at a
rate exceeding 20% per annum) with an increasing gap between requirements and
domestic production. Over this period, Mexican domestic production of capital
goods supplied about 50% of domestic demand, compared to 80% in Brazil.
1.07      About one-third of output in the subsector is made up of metal
products (e.g., pipes, tubes and fabricated structures), particularly for
petroleum distribution and refining and petrochemicals production and steel-
rolling-mill equipment (Annex 7, T-2). Non-electrical machinery accounts for
more than 30% of the subsector total, and includes a wide variety of agricul-
tural as well as industrial machinery and equipment (e.g., tractors, hand
tools, pumps, compressors and machinery for production of glass, cement,
sugar and flour), but production of general purpose metal-working machinery
such as machine tools, forges and presses has been very limited. Electrical
and electronic machinery also represents about 30% of value added in capital
goods production with the principal product lines among power transmission
and distribution equipment and small and medium sized generating equipment.
Transport equipment accounts for the remaining 7% of output. 3/
1/   The definition of the capital goods producing industries raises some
conceptual and statistical problems. For the general purposes of this
report, use is made of the definition given in the industrial incentive
decree of March 5, 1979, and subsequent revisions (the latest is repro-
duced as Annex 2). However, the statistical tables appearing in Annex
7, T-1 to T-4), are based on the definition provided in the recently
revised national accounts data, using a 72-sector model. Due to limita-
tions of those data, some consumer goods and intermediate products are
included among metal products while the bus and truck industries are
excluded from the transportation equipment category.
2/   The problems mentioned in the previous footnote, as well as the differ-
ences in national coverage, make it even more difficult to undertake
international comparisons of the subsector. The Mexican manufacturing
data exclude, but the Argentine and Brazilian include, petroleum refining;
adjusting for this exclusion would further reduce the share of capital
goods in Mexican industrial output as compared to Argentina and Brazil.
3/   For reasons of data availability mentioned earlier, this figure
covers only the production of ships and railway equipment.



- 4 -
The fastest growing category over the past two decades has been non-
electrical machinery, in particular, equipment for agriculture, petroleum
extraction and refining and petrochemical production. Total purchases of
capital goods in Mexico were valued at about Mex$400 billion (about US$17 bil-
lion equivalent) for 1980.
1.08      Capital goods currently represent  Mexico's largest import category,
accounting for almost one-third of merchandise imports, while capital goods
exports represent less than 10% of the country's total merchandise exports.
In 1979 imports of capital goods were about US$3.6 billion (compared to US$195
million of exports), and the preliminary estimate for 1980 exceeds US$5
billion (Annex 7, T-8). According to trade balance coefficient calculations,
metal products and machinery are the main contributors to the foreign trade
deficit in Mexico per unit of final demand.
Employment, Productivity, and Intersectoral Linkages
1.09      Employment in capital goods manufacturing has shown a dynamic
growth. Between 1960 and 1975, the average annual growth rate of employment
in the capital goods industries (9.7%) was almost double that of manufacturing
industry (5.0%), and by 1975 capital goods industries accounted for about 10%
of the employment in the sector, compared to about 5% in 1960 (Annex 7, T-6).
The average incremental employment per unit of incremental gross output is
estimated to be somewhat higher for capital goods industries than for manufac-
turing industries as a whole, while the corresponding capital-output ratio
estimate is about the same as that for total manufacturing industry. Compari-
son of direct labor and capital coefficients (Annex 7, T-7) indicates that all
capital goods industries except transport equipment are moderately labor-
intensive, and can be considered as important sources of future employment
opportunities in Mexico. 1/ Another important feature of capital goods
industries is their strong forward and backward linkages in the economy, which
have become even more prominent as a result of Mexico's recent rapid develop-
ment. Capital goods industries would thus have substantial impact on the
growth and employment in other industries.
Development Potential
1.10      The large increases in investment in both public and private sectors
anticipated in the 1979 National Industrial Development Plan indicated high
annual rates of growth in domestic demand for capital goods in 1982-1990
of 17-19% for electrical and non-electrical machinery and 12-14% for other
capital goods. Using more recent and somewhat more conservative growth
projections, the Ministry of National Patrimony and Industrial Development
(SEPAFIN) estimated the total demand for 1981-1990 at Mex$9,000 billion in
1980 prices (equivalent to approximately US$375 billion in 1980 prices),
reflecting a projected annual growth of approximately 12%. Demand from the
public sector is expected to account for over 50% of the total demand for
capital goods, the bulk deriving from the state petroleum and electricity
companies, Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) and Comision Federal de Electricidad
1/   Analysis of a sample of recently implemented capital goods projects
indicates an average fixed investment cost per incremental job of about
$29,000 equivalent in 1980 US dollars.



(CFE). In the medium term, the major users of capital goods are expected to
be the petroleum and petrochemical industries, electric power generation,
steel making and non-ferrous metal industries, mining and mineral processing,
sugar mills, and cement industries. Although the domestic market size in
Mexico for many of these categories of equipment is large enough to permit an
efficient scale of production of the respective capital goods, a large propor-
tion of the equipment needs (40-50% in recent years) is currently being met
through imports (Annex 7, T-4). Given the high capacity utilization rates
currently prevailing in most industrial subsectors in Mexico, the gap between
the domestic supply and domestic demand as regards capital goods, which is
already high in relation to other countries in comparable stages of development,
is projected to increase significantly over the coming years.
1.11      The relatively large size of the domestic market, together with the
relative labor intensity of most capital goods industries (as compared with
consumer or intermediate products industries of similar size), the prospects
for continued strong growth of the domestic demand for fixed capital investment,
and the low labor cost in Mexico, lend reason to believe that Mexican capital
goods industries can operate efficiently and compete internationally in many
product categories. Field interviews with private industrialists confirmed
that there are many product lines, especially those involving batch production
rather than highly automated continuous production, in which Mexico can
compete effectively in international markets. Several enterprises in the
metalworking field, including manufacturers of specialized machinery (e.g.,
equipment for glass making, food processing, and petrochemical industries),
are already exporting significant proportions of their production.
Development Constraints and the Proposed Capital Goods Industries Development
Program
1.12      The development of capital goods industries has, however, lagged
considerably behind the indicated potential. The subsector has been handi-
capped by low productivity, excessive fragmentation, limited specialization,
inadequate technology absorption and development, unreliable supply and
inadequate quality of parts and components, and high regional concentration.
These factors have limited the subsector's potential economic impact and
many capital goods categories in which Mexico possesses longer term comparative
advantage are not being produced.
1.13      Three principal factors contributed to the above problems.  First,
in the past the development of capital goods industries took place in the
absence of a unified policy framework. The subsector has been subject to
varying and relatively low (compared to other industries)
protection levels through most of the recent period. As a result of low
tariffs combined with an overvalued exchange rate, some 'net' effective
protection levels have been estimated to be negative (e.g., in the mid-1970s).
Although prior licenses were used as a protection device for several capital
goods categories, most licenses were in fact granted very liberally, particu-
larly to the public sector entities which have been the source of a large
proportion of the incremental capital goods demand. Moreover, until recently
the public sector entities enjoyed an almost full exoneration of tariffs on
capital goods imports. Also, export incentives provided to the subsector have
been inadequate through much of the recent period. Second, the development of



- 6 -
the subsector has been constrained by a number of technical, structural, and
information deficiencies. Several of the existing symptoms of weakness are
attributable to inadequate technology absorption and development, shortages of
qualified technical manpower and skilled workers, deficiencies in standardiza-
tion and abilities to provide 'engineering software,' a tendency towards exces-
sive vertical integration, insufficient subcontracting, and important deficiencies
in sectoral and technical information. These factors have led to inadequate
project preparation, efficiency and productivity shortfalls, and a somewhat
haphazard 'programming' of capital goods manufacturing projects by public and
private sectors in the absence of reliable background information. Third, a
scarcity of credit facilities to support domestic production and sales of
capital goods and a lack of adequate expertise or coordination among the
financial institutions in helping the preparation and promotion of sophis-
ticated capital goods industries projects have weakened the competitive
position of Mexican firms vis-a-vis foreign suppliers.
1.14      The government clearly considers the capital goods industries to
be a strategic subsector whose development is critical to Mexico's immediate
as well as long-term needs. This assessment appears justified in view of
the large growth potential of the subsector, its substantial linkages with the
other sectors of the economy, the employment potential, and perhaps most of
all, its potential contribution to Mexico's long range development through the
expected favorable impact on technology absorption and "technology mastery'" in
Mexico. The government is mounting a major effort to develop the subsector
with the participation of the local and foreign private sectors and assistance
from bilateral and multilateral agencies. To this end, it has initiated a
comprehensive program for the development of capital goods industries (here-
inafter referred to as 'the Program') to address each of the three sets of
factors identified above. The Program is designed to provide: (a) a well
defined and comprehensive policy framework which gives appropriate incentives
and support for the development of an efficient capital goods industries
subsector; (b) several complementary measures to address the technical;
structural and information deficiencies; and (c) an institutional framework to
ensure an adequate mobilization of domestic and external resources, a well
coordinated financing structure and consistent financing policies.
1.15      In response to the government's request for Bank assistance in
formulating and implementing the Program along the above lines, Bank missions
have worked closely with the Mexican authorities for the past 3 years.
Several of the Program's elements have already been initiated or are about to
be initiated by the government; other elements would be started during the
Program's initial phase. The proposed Bank project, which is presented in
Chapter IV of this report, is designed to support the first phase of the
proposed Program, and would be implemented under the overall coordination
of COCOFIN. The remaining two sections of this chapter explain the steps
being taken or proposed to be taken on the policy framework and complementary
measures (items (a) and (b) referred to above). Chapters II and III provide
the details of the Mexican financial system and the principal participating
institutions in the proposed project.



- 7 -
B. Policy Framework
Policy Coordination
1.16      Reflecting the high priority attached by the government to the
development of capital goods producing industries, the National Industrial
Development Plan in March 1979 and numerous associated decrees have provided a
broad spectrum of fiscal and other incentives for the subsector. 1/ Within
the inter-ministerial National Commission for Industrial Development created
to monitor progress under the Plan, the government established in December
1980 2/ a Sub-Commission for Capital Goods Industries Development composed of
high fevel representatives of the key ministries and agencies concerned with
the Subsector. These are the Secretariat of Patrimony and Industrial Development
(SEPAFIN), the Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), the Secretariat
of Programming and Budgeting (SPP), the Secretariat of Commerce (SECOM), the
Secretariat for Labor and Social Security (STPS), the Secretariat for Agricul-
ture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH), Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA), and
Organizacion SOMEX. The Sub-Commission, which is chaired by the Minister
for Industrial Development, has the responsibility for monitoring progress of
the subsector and for proposing measures and necessary criteria to stimulate
its rapid and efficient development.
1.17      Two other inter-ministerial bodies also play major roles in formula-
tion and implementation of policies. A Committee for Coordination and Financial
Evaluation of the Capital Goods Industries Development Program (COCOFIN) was
set up in 1978 under the chairmanship of SHCP and with other representatives
from Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank), NAFINSA, Banco Nacional de Comercio
Exterior (BNCE), and Organizacion SOMEX. COCOFIN, which has been reviewing
the general adequacy of financial resources available for the subsector, has
been given the role of establishing the operating policies and supervising
implementation of the comprehensive development program for the sub-sector to
be supported by the proposed Bank loan. In addition, the Tariff Commission,
comprising principally SECOM, SEPAFIN and SHCP, which has the responsibility
for elaborating the government's overall commercial policy, has recently been
giving considerable attention to the details of the import protection system
for capital goods industries.
Incentives System
1.18      Fiscal incentives for investment in capital goods producing industries
are included in the general incentive decree 3/ issued by the government in
1/   The Plan and the original set of relevant presidential decrees which set
out the incentive system established to achieve its objectives have been
discussed in detail in the Staff Appraisal Reports for the Fourth Industrial
Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project, Report No. 2473-ME dated May 10, 1979,
and for the Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project,
Report No. 2947a-ME dated May 30, 1980.
2/   This body replaced an inter-ministerial commission which had been set up
in 1978.
3/   The main features of the March 1979 decree are summarized in Annex 3.



- 8 -
March 1979 concurrently with the publication of the National Industrial
Development Plan (NIDP). The system combines the various objectives of NIDP,
which include regional decentralization, the promotion of small industry and
the generation of additional employment opportunities, as well as the promotion
of priority industries. The development of the capital goods manufacturing
subsector is a key element of the strategy laid out in the NIDP, and the
subsector is among the branches which have been accorded the highest priority
(Priority Category 1) in the Plan and the incentives decree. For industries
producing priority goods, the decree provides for tax credits of 20% of
the investment costs plus an additional amount proportional to the number of
incremental jobs from the investments creating or expanding productive capacity,
except in case of plants located in the industrially congested areas of the
Federal District (Zone IIIA) and designated contiguous municipalities in four
states (Zone IIIB). 1/ Provision of such incentives is subject to the enter-
prises meeting certain production, price, exports and other targets to be
specified for each industrial product line (para. 1.20). The qualifying
enterprises receive certificates (CEPROFIs) for the values indicated which can
then be used in payment for most federal taxes. As a further stimulus to
the expansion of domestic output of these items, the decree entitles purchasers
of locally produced capital goods from qualified suppliers to a 5% rebate (in
the form of CEPROFIs) on the purchase price. 2/
1.19      A June 1981 decree allows additional fiscal incentives of up to 10%
on investment and employment in the case of enterprises which can operate in
an "efficient and internationally competitive manner", and are willing to
create sufficient production capacity to enable significant exports. The
decree also allows an increase in the rebate for purchasers of domestically
produced capital goods from 5% to 15%, if the producing enterprise fully
satisfies the conditions of the development program registered with SEPAFIN.
Moreover, subject to certain conditions to be specified in the development
programs for individual capital goods categories (e.g., minimum percentages of
domestic value added--para. 1.20), the decree extends the 15% rebate to
locally produced parts and components purchased by those capital goods produ-
cers who subscribe to a development program; this latter measure is designed
in part to stimulate subcontracting within the subsector and reverse the trend
towards excessive vertical integration (para. 1.33). With a view to restrict
this latter incentive to cases of genuine subcontracting (i.e., to exclude
captive supplier companies created by a parent company only for legal and tax
reasons), the decree authorizes the incentive only for parts and component
producers who can demonstrate a significant diversification of their sales
among different purchasers.
1.20      In September 1981 the government issued a further decree, entitled
'Program for the Development of the Capital Goods Industries', setting out the
basic rationale for giving priority to capital goods industries, and summariz-
ing the incentive-protection framework applicable to them as well as the
1/   However, expansions of existing plants in Zone IIIB are eligible to
receive the tax incentives.
2/   In addition, industries creating or expanding facilities in the areas
of highest priority (zone IA) are offered a 30% discount on energy
prices (natural gas, fuel oil and electric power); a 30% discount on
prices of basic petrochemical inputs is also offered for new facilities
of petrochemicals industries, subject to an export commitment. The
government is considering discontinuing these incentives, however.



- 9 -
obligations to be fulfilled by enterprises which wish to obtain the benefits
offered. On the matter of incentives, the new decree is essentially a restate-
ment of the provisions discussed above which have appeared in previous decrees.
In addition, the decree outlines the nature of the obligations and targets on
levels of production, prices, domestic value added and exports, which would have
to be fulfilled by enterprises in order to be eligible for the fiscal incentives.
These objectives, together with the relevant incentives and protection, would
be spelled out in the 'development programs' ('programas de fomento') to be
authorized by SEPAFIN to individual product categories. Most importantly, as
part of the strategy to enforce efficiency, the decree provides that eligible
enterprises must commit themselves within their approved investment programs
to achieve, in the medium term, domestic price levels which will not be more than
15% in excess of the comparable prices prevailing in the domestic markets of
the countries of origin of the imported technologies. In addition, the obli-
gations specified in the development programs are expected to include commitments
by the individual enterprises to attain at least 50% domestic value added within
five years, and reasonable export targets to be agreed with the enterprises for
each product category. 1/ In a separate measure to discourage excessive importa-
tion of subquality used machinery and equipment and over invoicing of such imports
in connection with equity contributions of foreign partners, for purposes of
computing the tariff payable, the government requires used machinery and
equipment to be valued at least at 70% of the corresponding new price. 2/
Protection Policy
1.21      The September 1981 decree also spells out the general criteria for
setting the levels of import protection for capital goods. The criteria reflect
the government's desire to have a rational protection policy for the subsector
which would help it in its "take off" stage, while minimizing the burden of
such protection on the rest of industry and fostering efficiency in the medium
term. Emphasizing the need for selectivity in approach, the decree distinguishes
between the types of protection offered for three different groups of capital
goods products: (a) products unlikely to be produced in Mexico on a viable
basis in the medium term, for which no prior license requirements and only
'low' import tariffs would apply; (b) product lines being produced in Mexico
but whose production is still at an incipient stage, in which case some infant
industry protection would be provided through 'moderate' levels of import
tariffs combined with prior import license requirements applicable for periods
of up to 5 years; and (c) products whose production has reached reasonable
1/   Substantial sanctions are contemplated against capital goods industries
receiving fiscal incentives if they violate the export, price and other
obligations to which they subscribed under the development programs, with
the possibility of imposing penalties of up to four times the total amount
of fiscal incentives granted for these industries.
2/   In case the importer requests partial or full exoneration of this import
tariff, a special committee composed of SEPAFIN and SECOM representatives
would evaluate the merits of such a request, after taking into account the
fair market value and the adequacy of quality characteristics of the
concerned machinery or equipment.



- 10 -
levels of maturity, but still need time to achieve the target efficiency
levels, in which case the protection offered would be only through 'adequate'
import tariffs. 1/
1.22      Precise definitions of the nominal tariff levels which would be
considered 'low', 'moderate' and 'adequate' were not provided in the decree.
However, in connection with the proposed project, the government has pro-
vided the Bank the draft of a more detailed protection and incentives policy
statement, spelling out, among other things, the specific tariff ranges
proposed and the principles which would govern protection policy for capital
goods industries. This draft statement indicates that tariff levels would
be in the 5-10% range for industries in category (a), 10-25% for those
falling in category (b) (i.e., infant industries), and 25-40% for those in
category (c) ('mature' industries). It also states that, as an industry
matures the tariff levels would be progressively scaled down (and any prior
import license requirements removed) in order to achieve protection levels
which are consistent with the 15% maximum price difference goal referred to
earlier (para. 1.20). Protection would be applied on a selective basis to
production of items in which Mexico is likely to achieve international levels
of efficiency (including reasonable export prospects) in the medium run,
rather than indiscriminately to encourage the domestic manufacture of all
lines of capital goods. Within these guidelines, the Tariff Commission
would determine the specific nominal tariffs or other protection applicable
to each product category (including the required scaling down over time)
on a case-by-case basis, as applications are received from individual indus-
tries for subscribing to the 'development programs' for the respective
capital good category. The Mexican officials emphasized that the 15% maximum
price difference criterion for the medium term would be applied strictly by
the ministries concerned in evaluating all projects for capital goods manufac-
ture submitted for authorization of fiscal incentives.
1.23      The above principles appear to provide a sound basis for promot-
ing industries which are efficient and internationally competitive in the
long run. They have been confirmed during loan negotiations and in a
letter from the Mexican authorities to the Bank. However, the specific
tariff ranges in the draft policy statement now need to be revised to take
account of the recent major changes in the exchange rate (para. 1.04).
The government is currently evaluating the necessary changes in tariff
levels. Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory revised policy statement
for the subsector would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan. Any subsequent change in the policy statement during the project's
implementation period would have to be acceptable to the Bank. It is
understood that the applicable protection policy would be reviewed and
adjusted from time to time to reflect significant future changes in the
real exchange rate, international trade developments, etc.
1.24      The Mexican authorities have taken several measures to provide a
stimulus for exports, including provision of sales financing (through FOMEX)
and risk insurance for exports at interest rates competitive with those
1/   "Mature" industries in this context include capital goods industries
graduating from the initial infant industry protection, as well as
those that have hitherto been operating inefficiently and need some
protection over a limited period to adjust or rehabilitate themselves
in order to achieve the target efficiency levels.



- 11 -
charged by export credit agencies in other capital goods exporting countries,
rebates for indirect taxes and import tariffs on inputs (and components),
and additional investment and employment incentives available for industries
operating on an efficient and internationally competitive basis (para.
1.19).
Public Sector Procurement
1.25      A closely related issue is the government policy with regard to
procurement by public sector entities. It is the government's strategy to
use public sector investment programs, particularly those of PEMEX and CFE, 1/
to stimulate the growth of the domestic capital goods industries.  At the end
of 1980, the government issued a decree, followed by implementing regulations,
establishing standardized policies and procedures for all procurement by
public sector agencies and enterprises. In relation to capital goods, the
regulations provide that international competitive bidding would be permitted
in those cases when it is demonstrated that equipment of suitable quality is
not manufactured locally in sufficient quantites or is not likely to be avail-
able in a timely manner from local sources. It is also specified that inter-
national bidding would be permitted if the prices prevailing for locally
produced items exceed the margin of domestic preference (15%) or the applicable
tariff, whichever is higher. The external price used in this comparison would
be that prevailing in the domestic market of the country of origin of the
technology. Officials of various affected institutions have indicated their
satisfaction with the procedures being used by SECOM in implementing the above
policies, noting that the regulations are being applied judiciously without
forcing the purchase of inappropriate or expensive locally made items.
The Overall Balance of Protection and Incentives
1.26      The proposed policy framework contains a balance of moderate pro-
tection and incentives. The government believes that a period of infant
industry protection is justifiable for the subsector because of its critical
role in the economy and its special characteristics with a relatively long
learning curve, numerous external economies and the current situation of
intense competition at the international level (often involving 'dumping'
according to Mexican industries and government officials). Recognition has
been given to the need for ensuring a longer-term efficient production path
and the need for selectivity and 'temporality' in providing protection, while
ensuring adequate investor interest. A substantial portion of the initial
costs will not be borne by the consumers, but by the national budget in the
form of the investment, employment and purchase incentives. Mexican capital
1/   As noted earlier, these two institutions together are expected to account
for major portion of the public sector purchases of capital goods.



- 12 -
goods manufacturers are aware that the government does not intend to provide
permanently high levels of protection, and that the long-term viability
of the investments will depend upon their international competitiveness.
Given the experience of other countries which have undertaken programs to
promote capital goods development and the conditions affecting their produc-
tion, the average level of effective protection implied by the policy framework
for the subsector does not appear to be excessive, and measures to avoid anti-
export bias appear satisfactory. 1/
C. Technical, Structural and Other Factors Affecting Subsector Development
1.27      Mexican authorities have become increasingly conscious in recent
years of the important contribution that capital goods producing industries
can make to the development of a broader based and better integrated industrial
sector. In order to explore the principal technical, marketing and other
issues involved in fostering a deepening of the sector, a working group was
established in the early 1970s composed of staff from NAFINSA and a team of
international experts from the United Nations Industrial Development Organiza-
tion (UNIDO). In 1977, the group published its main report 2/ which examined
the past performance and possibilities for future growth of the subsector in
the light of the experiences of other industrializing countries in this field,
the production characteristics of capital goods, and the relationship with
Mexico's other manufacturing activities. Subsequently, the joint working
group undertook more detailed studies of the supply-demand characteristics
affecting the main capital goods categories, and feasibility studies to
identify viable projects which could serve as catalytic agents in the sub-
sector's development. 3/ Based on the information from the NAFINSA-UNIDO
I/  An inter-ministerial working group is currently undertaking a study on
effective protection for all sectors of the economy, based on direct
price comparisons for a relatively large sample of goods. Preliminary
results using 1979 data indicated that the average level of effective
protection for manufacturing activities as a whole was in the 12-15%
range, with the two main groups of capital goods, non-electrical and
electrical machinery, in the 17-19% range. The effective rate of pro-
tection for the economy as a whole was close to zero, given the
negative protection rates for agriculture and petroleum. The working
group is expected in the near future to recalculate the respective
protection rate estimates using more recent data (for 1980 and 1981).
Possible Bank collaboration in this effort is being discussed in the
context of the Bank's economic and sector work program.
2/   Una Estrategia Para Desarrollar La Industria de Bienes de Capital
(Mexico, 1977).
3/   Some of these studies have also been published as annexes to the main
report.



- 13 -
studies, information available from other agencies and representatives of the
Mexican private sector, and the analysis of the Bank missions, several techni-
cal, structural and other factors have been identified as sources of important
constraining influences in the development of the capital goods manufacturing
subsector in Mexico.
Technology Absorption and Development
1.28      The effectiveness of technology absorption and technology development
in capital goods manufacturing appears to have been quite varied, depending
upon the nature of technical collaboration between the foreign and domestic
partners, the participation of an aggressive local private sector partner,
and the nature of the project itself. While Mexican companies have been able
to absorb reasonably well the technology from their foreign partners, they have
been less effective in adapting, innovating or developing new technology. The
government's program for subsector development includes measures to correct
this deficiency through strengthening of the institutional infrastructure for
technology-related assistance, and provision of fiscal incentives for
technology innovation and adaptation.
1.29      Mexico's institutional infrastructure to support technological
research, development and adaptation activities is reasonably well developed.
The main institutions of relevance to capital goods industries are: the
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT), which formulates the
national science and technology policy and operates 12 technological research
and development centers (specialized by subsector) at different locations in
Mexico 1/; Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (INFOTEC), a NAFINSA adminis-
tered trust fund devoted to providing industry-oriented technological informa-
tion, advice and other related services, which enjoys wide contacts and good
reputation with private industry 2/; Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones
Tecnologicas (IMIT), a decentralized public institute which carries out project
feasibility studies and technological research for industrial enterprises on a
consulting basis; the Instituto de Investigaciones Electricas (IIE) and
Instituto Mexicano del Petroleo (IMP), two highly reputed technological insti-
tutes specializing in activities related to electric generation/transmission/
distribution and petroleum and petrochemicals extraction/processing 3/; and
several private sector consulting companies (some with foreign affiliations)
which can provide a wide range of engineering and other services. The
nature of the activities and capabilities of these institutions are discussed
in greater detail in Annex 4.
1.30      While the above institutional infrastructure can provide valuable
support, past research studies have indicated that the key advances in tech-
nology absorption, development and adaptation tend to be mainly a function of
1/   CONACYT is the recipient of a US$50 million loan in 1981 from the Inter-
American Development Bank, mainly to help strengthen technological
resarch and development centers, institutes and departments.
2/   INFOTEC is participating in the first and second small and medium scale
industries development projects (Loans 1552-ME and 1881-ME approved in
FY78 and FY80).
3/   IIE is affilated with CFE and IMP with PEMEX.



- 14 -
the enterprise's own initiative. Recognizing the need to stimulate such
initiative by the industrial enterprises, the government issued a decree in
November 1980 providing of broad range of incentives, including: (i) tax
credit of 20% of the investment costs of fixed assets and exemption of
reinvested profits from corporate income taxes, for institutions devoted
exclusively to technological research and development, or technological
assistance including the elaboration of basic engineering designs, provided
that the facilities are located outside of the highly congested Mexico City
area (Zone IIIA); (ii) 25% investment tax credit or exemption of duties on
imported equipment for national institutions devoted to scientific and tech-
nological development; (iii) tax credit of up to 20% of investments for
technological research, development and adaptation activities by productive
enterprises (25% in case of small enterprises); and (iv) 10% tax credit on
sales of the technology developed by industrial enterprises. In addition,
enterprises which purchase services provided by eligible institutions or
enterprises will receive tax credits equivalent to 10% of the value of the
contract, 15% if the purchaser is a small enterprise. Finally, since 1976,
the government has also permitted accelerated depreciation for tax purposes on
capital equipment used for R&D purposes, and R&D expenditures can be deducted
as current business expenses in computing taxable income.
1.31      Government regulations on acquisition of foreign technologies
appear to be reasonable and do not constitute an undue administrative burden.
All technology transfer contracts have to be authorized by SEPAFIN's Registry
of Technology Transfer which checks for the suitability of royalty payments
and other conditions of the contract, which frequently helps the entrepreneur
to negotiate reasonable levels of payment. Subject to this, technology may be
acquired freely from abroad by enterprises in priority sectors (including
capital goods) but payments purely for trade marks are not permitted. In the
case of capital goods, royalties have generally been in the range of 3-7% of
sales.
1.32      As an additional measure to address the problem of insufficient
industry-sponsored technological research, development and adaptation (RDA),
FONEI and CONACYT have initiated programs for financing such activities on a
risk-sharing basis. Under the FONEI scheme, costs incurred by industries
for technology-oriented in-house RDA, as well as industry-sponsored RDA work
contracted to technical consulting firms, are eligible for financing, whereas
the CONACYT scheme contemplates support mainly through work undertaken by
one of CONACYT's technological research and development centers at the request
of the respective industry. The schemes of both FONEI and CONACYT involve
a significant subsidy element, mainly in the form of financing at low interest
rates, and absorption by the respective agency (FONEI or CONACYT) of up to
75% of the costs of the research program in the case it does not yield fruitful
results. 1/ A recent IDB loan to Mexico for technology development includes
US$2.5 million component to support CONACYT's risk sharing program for the
1/   The terms and conditions of financing differ somewhat under the two
programs. The effective yield on the financing provided by FONEI in the
case of successful projects is of the order of 6-8 percentage points
below the ACF index (that is, currently about 24%); the corresponding
yield on CONACYT's financing is considerably lower, but a provision is
made for some possible royalties to CONACYT in case of successful research
projects.



- 15 -
full range of industrial activities. The proposed Program would include a
small component to support the technology RDA activities of capital goods
manufacturing industries through the risk-sharing program of FONEI (para.
4.02). Given the innovative nature of the risk-sharing programs, FONEI (and
CONACYT) has opted to offer financing conditions that may prove to be somewhat
overgenerous in the long run. While this may be essential in the initial
stages to generate sufficient industry interest in technology development,
financing conditions for the technology financing component would be reviewed,
as part of the annual review of the entire Program (para. 4.19), with a view
to identify and make any needed adjustments (e.g., inclusion of additional
conditions providing for royalty payments to FONEI in case of successful
research). Other complementary support would also be provided under the
proposed Program to help strengthen INFOTEC's technological information and
other support services (para. 4.07). Also, financing would be included to
help provide production-related technical assistance and on-the-job training
oriented towards improving the efficiency of utilization of existing facilities
("X-efficiency") as well as ensuring efficiency in new investments (para.
4.02).
Excessive Vertical Integration
1.33      As a result of difficulties in assuring adequate quality and a
reliable supply of components and other inputs and the previous emphasis in
the incentives decrees only on final products, a high degree of vertical
integration is evident among many Mexican capital goods industries. 1/ The
lack of specialization in component manufacture and the relatively small use
of horizontal linkages and subcontracting have led to a fragmented market in
the production of many capital goods components. In an effort to correct this
trend, the government has initiated a system of subcontracting exchanges where
small and medium enterprises can register their capabilities and make that
known to larger enterprises. To date four such exchanges have been set up
with the assistance of the Directorate General of Small and Medium Scale
Industry (DGSMI) of SEPAFIN, at Guadalajara, Bajio, Puebla-Tlaxcala and
Veracruz, and two more at Monterrey and Nuevo Leon are planned. DGSMI has
carried out useful preparatory work and provided guidance in the establishment
of the exchanges, but they are eventually to be taken over and operated by the
local chambers of industry. While it is too early to judge the effectiveness
and impact of these subcontracting exchanges, they represent a worthwhile
initiative. The operation of the exchanges is expected to be closely coordinated
with the technical assistance and extension activities under the national small
and medium scale industry development program (the PAI program which receives
support under Loans 1552-ME and 1881-ME). The recent extension of fiscal and
other incentives to locally produced parts and components of capital goods
(para. 1.19) is expected to provide a further stimulus towards increased use
of subcontracting.
1.34      Nevertheless, there remain important obstacles to wider use of
subcontracting systems particularly those involving smaller enterprises. The
most important of these has been the disparity in technological absorption
1/   Another factor that encouraged high degrees of vertical integration
appears to have been the availability of relatively cheap capital in
the past (before 1977/78) which implied relatively low penalties for
underutilization of equipment capacity.



- 16 -
between the larger and smaller enterprises. To help overcome this constraint,
subcontracting enterprises would be eligible under the Program to receive
technical assistance loans at concessional interest rates (para. 4.02). In
addition, to ensure adequate consideration to subcontracting possibilities in
individual subprojects, all subproject evaluations accompanying requests for
authorization of Bank financing would be required under the Program's operating
regulations (para. 4.17) to include an assessment of the subcontracting
possibilities.
Information Dissemination System
1.35      There appears to be an insufficient dissemination of information
regarding the supply-demand characteristics and current installed capacity of
capital goods industries. Also, relatively little information is available on
investments under consideration by the public and private sectors affecting
the demand or supply of capital goods. This has been in part due to the
previous lack of programming and projection of capital goods needs by the
principal public sector purchasers, notably PEMEX and CFE, the reluctance of
some elements of the private sector to give out relevant information, and lack
of an institutional infrastructure to systematize and provide the relevant
information to industries. The deficiencies in available information increase
the uncertainties associated with investments in capital goods projects and
hamper the private sector's ability to plan investments in capital goods
industries on a rational basis. They also appear to be preventing the optimal
grouping of capital goods products and intermediates in formulating manufactur-
ing projects. For example, the appraisal mission noted several instances of
large plants manufacturing equipment for electric generation and transmission,
petroleum refining, petrochemicals production and sugar refining which have
the ability and idle capacity (at least part of the time) for undertaking
heavy fabrication, forging, pressing, machining, heat-treatment, etc. Such
capacity could be used to produce equipment for a wide range of other activities,
with suitable programming, minor adjustments and acquisition of the needed
know-how.
1.36      One measure which has recently been taken to improve this situation
is the publication by the principal public sector enterprises (particularly
CFE and PEMEX) of their long term investment programs projecting their likely
requirements of major equipment, say, over a 5-10 year period. Also, as part
of the measures taken to standardize public sector procurement procedures, all
entities within the public sector are required to submit to SECOM at the
beginning of each year details of their planned expenditures for the year;
these are later published by the government. Finally, in order to provide a
forum for discussion of the public sector investment programs and procurement
information, the government has started creating Mixed Commissions ('Comisiones
Mixtas') comprised of representatives from the private sector capital goods
producing industries and the major public sector purchasers of those goods
(one Commission for each major public sector entity or association). Thus far
such Mixed Commissions have been established for CFE, PEMEX, SIDERMEX (steel)
and the association of nationalized sugar producers; these appear to be
reasonably effective and a similar commission may be created in the future for
FERTIMEX (fertilizers).
1.37      Two additional initiatives would be taken by COCOFIN in collaboration
with SEPAFIN, as part of the proposed Program, in order to fill the most
critical information gaps and improve access to information on the capital



-17 -
goods 8ubsector, namely, a comprehensive inventory of existing production
capacities of relevance to the subsector, and implementation of a broad informa-
tion dissemination system (paras. 4.07 and 4.08). The above measures would
facilitate optimal grouping of products in formulating the investment projects,
prevent duplication of projects and redundant productive capacity, provide a
better basis for user industries to consider domestic procurement of capital
goods, and help entrepreneurs plan capital goods investment projects on a
rational basis.
Technical Standards
1.38      Difficulties in having commonly accepted engineering standards for
both products and inputs have also contributed to the slow growth in subcon-
tracting and, more generally, have adversely affected the development of the
subsector. Common technical standards are needed to ensure interchangeability
of parts and reliability according to a predetermined level of performance.
With growth in world trade, there has been a major effort at establishing
international standards, or at least reconciling diverse national standards to
provide compatible equivalents. The issue of choosing among different existing
standards becomes particularly important for a developing country such as
Mexico which depends upon technology derived from different developed countries,
and whose products include parts and components used in a wide variety of
final products elaborated in other countries. The related decisions could
affect the size of the production runs and production costs of capital goods
industries.
1.39      The Mexican authorities have initiated a comprehensive program
to establish a national standards system, and working groups have begun to
elaborate norms for various product lines, including some capital goods. The
degree of acceptance of these standards by the domestic industries has been
limited, as may be expected at an early stage of developing standards. Most
enterprises including those in the public sector continue to rely on foreign/
international standards, apparently because a high proportion of their existing
equipment is imported; moreover using internationally accepted standards could
facilitate exports.
1.40      Given the relatively early stage of capital goods production in
Mexico, it would be difficult to establish a consistent and streamlined system
of standards quickly. It is likely that the most practical approach may be to
focus on selected product lines considered to be of highest priority for
establishment of national standards, striving to obtain strong participation
of producers and consumers in the working groups for these items. For a
majority of the products, however, acceptance of an internationally known
standard may be the best solution, at least in the near term. To address the
issue, COCOFIN would periodically review, together with other agencies con-
cerned, the progress achieved and required additional measures towards stream-
lining and/or developing standards (para. 4.09).
Engineering Software
1.41      Mexico seems to have made little advance thus far in the development
of "engineering software", that is, putting together designs and engineering of
complete plants as opposed to only pieces of hardware. In comparison with
other developing countries such as India, Korea and Brazil, the contrast is
notable. This would be a major area where potential for future growth and
improvement lies, and should be emphasized in the future development strategy.



- 18 -
As the capability to put together complete plants and to manufacture sophis-
ticated equipment develops, Mexican companies would also have to build a
capability to provide their clients (both domestic and foreign) required
maintenance services and technical assistance in the operation of the plants
or equipment. Progress in the development of capacity in this area will be
monitored during the course of the Program, and COCOFIN would provide a forum
in which it will be possible to discuss and decide upon possible measures to
assist this process of growth (para. 4.09).
Technical Manpower and Training Needs
1.42      Shortage of qualified manpower, particularly technical manpower with
the skills and experience required in capital goods manufacture is becoming a
serious constraint. The deficiencies appear most critical at the skilled
worker and technician levels, but are also evident at the professional and
managerial levels. An adequate system of vocational training programs would
be essential to address the various technical and structural issues discussed
above. Suitable training programs, 'mini-courses' and seminars are also needed
to bolster the capacity of the professional and managerial staff of the
industries as well as the technical staff of the principal financing agencies
under the proposed Program. Emphasis needs to be put on the treatment of the
technology transfer process, technology transfer agreements and the design of
complex financing packages involving foreign collaborators to formulate
'bankable' projects (para. 4.05).
1.43      A large number of public, semi-public and private institutions
provide technical training at various levels, including the Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Labor and several autonomous and semi-autonomous
agencies. The most important facilities relevant to capital goods industries
are: the CONALEP system of training centers which is designed to offer terminal
training to skilled workers and lower level technicians 1/; the CECATI system
of centers for training semi-skilled and skilled workers; the CET and CECYT
systems which serve the dual purposes of providing 'terminal' technical
training for low to middle level technicians as well as preparing candidates
for universities and higher level institutes; CENAPRO which has been involved
in training technicians, professionals and middle level management personnel;
ARMO, the UN-assisted system of brief but intensive vocational training
programs under the auspices of CENAPRO; the system of regional technological
institutes; universities and higher level technological institutes which offer
industry-oriented programs from time to time; and programs custom-designed for
the needs of individual enterprises either in-house or with assistance from
1/   The Bank has approved a US$90 million loan in FY81 to provide support to
the CONALEP system (Loan 2042-ME). In addition to the general upper
secondary level technical training courses in the metalworking field
which are offered by several CONALEP centers, two specialized training
and applied research programs in the metalworking field expected to be
initiated during 1982/83 at CONALEP's Saltillo and Cuautitlan centers
are of particular relevance to capital goods industries. The center at
Saltillo which will start operating in 1982 will cover foundry, boilershop
work, mechanical fabrication, installation and maintenance (with capacity
to train 500 technicians and 250 workers each year), while the Cuautitlan
program, expected to be initiated later, will cover metallurgy, foundry,
machine tools, fabrication, installation and maintenance (with expected
yearly output of 2,400 technicians and 500 skilled workers).



- 19 -
consulting companies or independent institutions. 1/ Annex 5 provides a
schematic diagram and explanation of the various training sources.
1.44      Mission discussions with industry representatives indicated substan-
tial deficiencies in their knowledge of the available training facilities from
the various sources and the suitability to their own operations. The problem
is compounded by the seeming or real overlap between the training functions
among the different institutions, particularly with respect to the programs
for skilled and semi-skilled workers and technicians. In order to overcome
this deficiency, a comprehensive inventory of all available training courses
relevant to capital goods industries would be carried out under the direction
of COCOFIN, as part of the proposed Program (para. 4.06).
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES FINANCING
A. Institutional Structure
The Banking System
2.01      Mexico's banking system comprises Banco de Mexico (the Central
Bank), 23 public banks and 64 institutions of private and mixed ownership.
In 1980, private and mixed banks accounted for 61% of the banking system's
liabilities, the public banks for 31%, and Banco de Mexico for 8% (Annex 7,
T-9). Other financial intermediaries include insurance and guarantee companies,
credit unions, deposit banks, and the securities market, which together
account for about one quarter of the total financial intermediation (Annex 7,
T-10). Mexico maintains an open financial system vis-a-vis external markets.
2.02      Although the financial system experienced a period of rapid deepening
from 1967 to 1972, when the ratio of banking sector's non-monetary liabilities
to GDP increased from 0.32 to 0.40, the economic uncertainties of the mid-1970s
that ultimately led to the massive peso devaluation in 1976 caused a sig-
nificant capital flight; based on a partial survey the ratio is now estimated
at about 0.33 (Annex 7,T-ll). Banco de Mexico has since taken several measures
to reverse this trend, the most important being a liberalization of interest
rate ceilings on deposits and offering remuneration on reserve requirements
of banks. Private sector deposits with private and mixed banks as a percentage
of GDP, however, increased recently from their 1977 low of 23.2% to 26% in
1980; together with a growing share of banking system credit in GDP, this
indicates a reversal, or at least a stemming, of the earlier unfavorable trend
in financial intermediation. Although the largest 12 banking groups account
for over 85% of the assets (Annex 7, T-12), indicating a fair degree of
concentration, the system appears to be quite competitive, particularly in
raising deposits. Administrative expenses of banks are relatively high
(exceeding on the average 6% of deposits), mainly due to costs associated with
their large branch networks. Due to the high liquidity preference of savers,
liabilities of the banking system have been skewed towards short-term obliga-
tions (Annex 7, T-13).
1/   Since 1978, Mexican firms have been made legally responsible to ensure
adequate training facilities for their employees; this regulation is
still only in the initial stage of enforcement.



- 20 -
2.03      Traditionally, financial institutions in Mexico were specialized
as deposit and savings banks, financieras or investment banks, and mortgage
banks. The 1976-77 financial crisis, when the banking system experienced
massive withdrawals of funds, convinced the Mexican authorities of the
urgent need to introduce organizational reforms. In December 1978, a series
of amendments and additions to the Banking Law were introduced to raise the
efficiency and effectiveness of the banking system. The most important
modifications involved measures to encourage grouping of specialized banks to
form the multipurpose banks (multibanks), with a view to increase competition
through the increased financing capacity of the smaller banks, lower administra-
tive costs of the system through economies of scale, and improved access to
the full range of financial services for clients outside the biggest cities.
The capital requirements for banks were also changed, with the requirements
now being linked to the risk classification of assets instead of liabilities.
With a view to counteract a traditional over-emphasis on loan collaterals, the
133% minimum collateral was eliminated, and principles were established that
loans should be granted taking into account the economic feasibility of the
project being considered, and that repayment periods should be set on the
basis of a project's expected cash flow. Overall exposure limits per client
have also been set to avoid excessive concentration of portfolio risks of
individual banking institutions.
2.04      Mexico's multibanks are now the dominant type of private sector
and 'mixed' financial institutions. 1/ Multibanks can offer a full range of
financial services through their branch offices and provide a fairly broad
regional coverage of the country. As of March 31, 1981, there were 64 private
and mixed banks (down from 198 as of September 30, 1977), of which 35 were
multibanks (up from 14 as of September 30, 1977 and 26 at year-end 1978). The
multibanks now account for more than 90% of the assets and 80% of all the
branch offices of private and mixed banks. Despite the fact that the number
of financial institutions was reduced to two-fifths in less than four years
(from 220 in 1977 to 87 in 1981), the number of branch offices increased in
the same period from 3,535 in September 1977 to 4,492 in March 1981 (Annex 7,
T-14). Among the public sector banks, NAFINSA is by far the most important
one supporting the industrial sector, and fulfills a combination of development
banking, commercial banking and industrial promotion activities; it also
administers several government trust funds (para. 2.05) and acts as an agent
of the government in obtaining external borrowings. The most important
'mixed' bank involved in industrial financing is Organizacion SOMEX. Under
the proposed capital goods development program, NAFINSA, Oroanizacion SOMEX,
as well as the entire private banking system (through the trust fund mechanisms
described below), would participate as financial intermediaries.
The Trust Funds
2.05      In order to channel additional financial resources to sectors it
considers a priority, the government has set up several trust funds. These
funds derive their resources principally from the reserve requirements of the
banking system, although several have also received loans from local and
international sources, including the Bank. The most important trust funds
providing financing to the industrial sector are among those managed by the
Banco de Mexico and NAFINSA. The principal trust funds administered by
1/   'Mixed' banks are entities with mixed public and private sector owner-
ship which operate essentially as private sector banks.



- 21 -
Banco de Mexico are FONEI, which finances relatively large export and
efficient import substitution projects in the industrial sector, and FOMEX,
whose main activity is pre- and post-export financing. The main NAFINSA-
administered trust funds supporting industrial activities are FOGAIN (credit
to small and medium scale industry), FOMIN (equity and quasi-equity financing
to small and medium scale industry), FIDEIN (promotion and development of
industrial estates) and FONEP (financing of preinvestment and other studies in
connection with project preparation). The trust funds financing credit
operations (FONEI, FOMEX and FOGAIN) operate through the entire banking system
by rediscounting loans made by individual banks.
2.06      During 1979, trust funds administered by Banco de Mexico and NAFINSA
channeled Mex$66,400 million through the banking system, equivalent to about
6.5% of total banking sector credit. The amount for 1980 is estimated at
Mex$88,400 million. The trusts' share in medium- and long-term financing is
important due to the relatively short maturity of the resources mobilized by
the banking system assets; in 1979, they accounted for 23% of the total medium-
and long-term credit to industry and 38% to agriculture. Capital goods produc-
ing industries obtained Mex$16,950 or 19% of total trust financing in 1980.
The Securities Market
2.07      Although it has grown rapidly following a series of reforms taken
in the mid-1970s, Mexico's securities market is still relatively small and has
not yet developed into a very important mechanism to finance industrial firms.
In 1980, new issues of shares and fixed interest securities accounted for only
4.2% of the country's total financing through financial intermediaries.
Comparatively few, mostly well-established and large, companies are listed in
the organized securities market (centralized in 1976 into a single securities
exchange). 1/ Total value of shares traded in the organized market increased
from Mex$30,300 million in 1978 to Mex$93,800 million in 1979, but fell to
Mex$74,900 in 1980; the volume of traded debt securities has been declining
since 1976, reaching Mex$65,000 million in 1978, Mex$33,000 million in 1979,
and Mex$25,700 million in 1980. Recognizing the limitations of the existing
securities market, the government is providing equity and quasi-equity invest-
ments through direct investments undertaken by NAFINSA, FOMIN, and FISOMEX
(holding company wing of Organizacion SOMEX). This type of financing has had
an important impact on capital goods industries' equity financing, and would
be supported under the proposed project.
B. Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy
2.08      As the economy recovered from the 1975-76 crisis, the financial
sector grew rapidly. Total financing increased 5.1% in real terms in 1978,
11.4% in 1979, and 7.7% in 1980. Credit given by private and mixed banks
expanded at an average annual rate of 16.1% in real terms in 1978-80 and
accounted for 38.7% of total financing in 1980, compared to 30.3% in 1977
(Annex 7, T-15). Credit to the manufacturing sector, however, has had a
less dynamic growth: 5.5% in real terms in 1978, 4.9% in 1979, and 2.1%
in 1980. The manufacturing sector accounted for slightly over 20% of total
banking system credit in 1980, compared with 25-26% in 1977-78, reflecting
in part the increase in the relative share of the energy sector (Annex 7,T-16).
1/   Responsibility for control and supervision of the securities exchange
rests with the National Securities Commission.



- 22 -
It appears that the heavy concentration in Mexico City, typical for both
industrial value added and industrial credit, has decreased significantly.
As of December 31, 1980 the Federal District accounted for 47.7% of total
credit to the manufacturing sector, compared to 57% in 1978 (Annex 7,T-17).
Priority zones as designated by the National Industrial Development Plan
registered some gains in their respective shares of credit, a trend which is
expected to continue in the future and which would be encouraged under the
proposed project.
2.09      Since 1974, financial institutions in Mexico have been adopting
increasingly a variable interest rate system for term lending operations.
By 1977 practically all term loans were made at floating interest rates,
using as an index the average cost of deposit funds (ACF) to investment
banking departments of private and mixed banks. In December 1979, following
the transformation of the banking system from specialized banks to multipurpose
institutions (para. 2.04), Banco de Mexico modified the ACF index calculation
to base it on the average cost of all term resources (3 days to 2 years) of
the Mexican (private and mixed) banks, making it broader and a better indicator
of the cost of funds in the market. In line with Mexico's open financial
system, domestic deposit and lending interest rates can be expected to main-
tain an approximate parity with interest rates in international markets and
to reflect changes in the domestic inflation rate, although with same lags.
The ACF index rose from about 18% in December 1979 to about 34% in March 1982
(Annex 7, T-18), reflecting the periodic adjustments of all deposit rate
ceilings to maintain domestic financial savings and preserve party with
foreign markets. During 1980-81, the level of interest rates on loans as
well as term deposits of banks not only exceeded the rate of inflation in
Mexico (estimated at about 28% for 1981), but also made peso deposits competi-
tive with those denominated in foreign currencies. This is reflected in a
progressive decrease in the percentage of foreign currency-denominated
credits from about 35% in 1977 to 28% by the end of 1980. The margins over
the ACF charged by banks range from less than 2 points for prime clients with
reciprocal business, to about 7 points for marginal clients, implying current
lending rates of about 36% to 41%; the average effective lending rate currently
charged by the private and mixed banks in Mexico City is estimated at 38-39%.
2.10      The widespread application of adjustable interest rates has caused
a gradual shift of lending towards medium term loans, although banks are still
constrained by the high liquidity of their liabilities. As of December 31,
1980, private and mixed banks had 46% of their loans at terms exceeding
one year, compared to 39% in 1978. Long term loans (say of terms of more than
5 years) make up only a small proportion of these, reflecting continued
difficulties in the access of industries to longer term financing which is
needed for large investment projects or investments involving long gestation
periods. This is mainly a result of the concerns of the banks with regard to
borrowers' repayment capacity and uncertainties in domestic and international
interest rates experienced in recent times. Banco de Mexico is continuing
its efforts to improve the term structure of the banking system's liabilities,
through several recent measures including elimination of the highly liquid
investment and mortgage bonds, further liberalization of interest rates on
certificates of deposits of 24-month maturities, offering higher remunerations
on the reserve requirements for banks whose proportion of term deposits
exceeds that for the banking system as a whole, and elimination of remunera-
tions for reserve requirements on checking and savings deposits.



- 23 -
C.   Capital Goods Industries Financing
Availability of Financing
2.11      Because of the long gestation periods involved in implementing
capital goods industry projects and in their achieving the required level
of technology absorption and development, availability of adequate long-term
financing is particularly important to the development of the capital goods
subsector. Consequently the availability of term funds from the trust fund
mechanisms (most importantly FONEI and FOMEX) and from the public and mixed
banks has been a significant factor in facilitating the subsector's development.
Funds available from these channels would be supplemented through additional
resources under the proposed Program, including additional term funds for
sales financing of capital goods (para. 2.13).
2.12      The government is aware of the difficulties in capital goods financ-
ing and is monitoring the available support through COCOFIN (para. 1.17) whose
membership represents several financial institutions (NAFINSA, Organizacion
SOMEX, BNCE, FONEI, FOMEX, FOGAIN and FOMIN). During 1980 these institutions
approved Mex$28,700 million in credit to capital goods industries, a substantial
increase over Mex$17,700 million in 1979; about 37% of the credit in 1980 went
for non-electrical machinery, 24% for transport equipment, 21% for electrical
and electronic equipment, and 16% for metallic products.   Among the above
institutions, FOMEX was the largest source of funds, providing 37% of total
credit in 1980, followed by BNCE (27%), NAFINSA (22%), FONEI (7%), Organizacion
SOMEX (5%), and FOGAIN (2%). However, as mentioned above, a good deal of the
financing is in the form of short-term working capital credit, over 80% in the
case of FOMEX and BNCE (1980 data), about 70% in the case of NAFINSA (1977-80
average), and some 30% in the case of Organizacion SOMEX (1978-80). FONEI's
credits, on the other hand, are of a longer term nature, with over 90% of the
financing in the over 4 to 10 years category.
Financing of Domestic Sales
2.13      At present the main source of financing specifically designed to
finance sales of capital goods to local and foreign buyers is FOMEX, which
rediscounts buyer or supplier loans made by Mexican banks (with maturities
of up to 15 years) for this purpose (Annex 7, T-19). FOMEX's scheme for
financing domestic sales of capital goods was originally started more than 10
years back, but became significant only in recent years when it started being
used to provide short term sales financing to address specific problems related
to the sales of capital goods to Mexican public enterprises (most notably
PEMEX and CFE). In principle it is available for short, medium, as well as
long term financing of all domestic sales of capital goods (with terms of up
to I'1 years), for amounts for up to 85% of the invoice value net of the cost
of imported inputs. To date the bulk of the sales financing provided under
this scheme (over 80%) has, however, been only short term. Loans to finance
the domestic sales are generally denominated in pesos and bear a floating
interest rate equal to two percentage points above the ACF index (that is,
equal to those under FONEI loans--see para. 3.22). In principle FOMEX may
also rediscount sales financing loans denominated in foreign currencies using
interest rates competitive with those offered by foreign suppliers in that
particular currency, although the option of foreign currency denominated loans
has rarely been used in the past in financing local sales. No exact data on
the banking sector sales financing to capital goods producing industries



- 24 -
exist; estimates indicate, however, that the capital goods subsector's share
of such financing in total manufacturing is about 12%, close to its share of
the manufacturing value added, but is also almost entirely short term.
2.14      Shortages of sales financing and the perceived inferior competitive
position of domestic capital goods producers vis-a-vis foreign suppliers with
respect to the terms and conditions of sales financing are frequently cited by
Mexican industrialists as major factors hindering the growth of the local capital
goods industry. While shortages in sales financing actually experienced in
the past have not been critical, there is little doubt that the needs for sales
financing would increase very substantially in the future as the domestic
capital goods industry develops. On the other hand, industrialists are not
well informed about the features of financing available through FOMEX for
domestic sales of capital goods, and banks not fully familiar with the markets
and technical aspects of capital goods tend to be reluctant to provide the
full amount of sales financing which can be rediscounted under FOMEX's scheme.
Another potential problem is that capital goods producing industries cannot
afford to use up the bulk of their borrowing capacity in arranging sales
financing. To help address these problems, the proposed project would provide
greater facilities to publicize information on available sales financing
resources, terms and conditions. Consideration would also be given to the
need for an increasing use of foreign currency denominated loans (to be
offered as an option to the industries) in the financing of local capital
goods sales to help domestic capital goods producers overcome any competitive
disadvantage. In the longer run, consideration should also be given by
COCOFIN and the concerned government agencies to the possibility of promoting
private institutions specialized in financing of sales/purchases of capital
goods, which might more readily accept loan exposure (e.g., as 'acceptance
corporations' willing to assume full collection responsibility and credit risks
of the buyers in return for a margin, through 'factoring' of sales), and devel-
oping a secondary market for acceptance type instruments for sales financing.
Complementary External Financing
2.15      The larger industrial enterprises of Mexico have had reasonable
success in recent years in obtaining short and medium term investment financing
in the form of direct loans from foreign private banks, suppliers credits,
equity participations by collaborating foreign partners. Based on an analysis
of a representative sample of medium size capital goods manufacturing projects
which have been financed recently, or are being considered for financing,
total financing from external sources (excluding IBRD and other multilateral
aid agencies) accounted for 10-15% of the total investment costs on the
average. It is believed that with additional efforts to mobilize complementary
external resources this percentage can be increased significantly. The
'cofinancing' proposed in connection with the proposed Capital Goods Develop-
ment Program would be a step in this direction (para. 4.13).
D. Outlook
2.16      Given the vigorous domestic demand, existing structural imbalances
and possible needs to accelerate the rate of peso devaluation, the inflationary
pressures in the economy can be expected to continue in the near future. On
the other hand, the high level of public sector deficit, part of which is



- 25 -
financed through the financial system, lends reason to believe that monetary
and credit policies will at best be moderately expansionary. It may reasonably
be expected that interest rate policies will continue to be set taking into
account international financial market trends, differences between Mexican and
world inflation rates, and the need for a more adequate term structure of
domestic savings. Under such circumstances, capital goods producing industries,
whose output is expected to grow considerably faster than that of the rest of
the manufacturing sector in the years to come, may be particularly affected by
the high interest rates and a shortage of funds necessary for new investments,
expansion and sales of their products. The proposed project would contribute
to strengthening the financing system for capital goods industries together
with improvements in other areas such as the policy framework, institutional
structure and needed technical measures, as described in Chapter IV.
III. MAJOR PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
3.01      The investment financing under the proposed Program would be channeled
mainly through three institutions--NAFINSA, Organizacion SOMEX and FONEI
(paras. 2.04 and 2.05). Sales financing would be provided mainly through
FOMEX, whose activities have been discussed in para. 2.13. This chapter
provides a brief institutional analysis of NAFINSA, Organizacion SOMEX and
FONEI, the main agencies channeling Bank funds under the Program.
A. Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
3.02      NAFINSA is the government's most important development bank supporting
the industrial sector. Through its own operations together with those of its
affiliate 'Banco Internacional,' it also acts as a commercial bank, accepting
deposits and offering a wide range of services, mostly to the industrial sector.
It has a large holding company wing through which it holds equity participations
in industrial companies of public and mixed ownership (162 companies including
20 majority interests at year-end 1980). NAFINSA also acts as the government's
official agent in a variety of financial transactions, the most important of
which involve raising external resources in capital markets and through
bilateral and multilateral agencies. As of December 31, 1980, NAFINSA's total
assets stood at about Mex$239 billion (close to US$10 billion equivalent),
making it one of the world's largest development banks. NAFINSA has been the
Borrower for the majority of Bank loans to Mexico, including all previous Bank
loans for the Mexican industrial sector.
3.03       NAFINSA's board of directors (Administrative Council) is composed of
top level government officials. Its chairman is the Minister of Finance and
other members include the Ministers of Programming and Budgeting, of Industrial
Development, and of Commerce, the Director General of Banco de Mexico, the
Chairman of the Confederation of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN), and two other
representatives of the private sector. NAFINSA's administrative head is its
Director General, under whom there are three general sub-directorates, one for
industrial promotion, one for finance and one for trust funds and affiliate
industrial companies. The main departments of NAFINSA which would be directly



- 26 -
involved in the implementation of the proposed Program are the Project Promotion
Department of the Industrial Promotion wing and the Credit Department of the
Finance wing (see indicative organization chart of NAFINSA in Annex 8, C-1).
3.04      In addition to acting as the Borrower of the proposed Bank loan on
behalf of the government (para. 4.20), NAFINSA would have an important role in
three project-specific aspects. First, using the results of the sector
analysis which it has been carrying out with UNIDO cooperation (para. 1.27),
NAFINSA has been active over the last several years in generating new project
ideas, preparing project profiles and carrying out feasibility studies for
potential product lines within the capital goods subsector which can be pro-
duced in Mexico on an economically viable basis. In line with its objective
of identifying and helping to fill major gaps in the subsector, NAFINSA's
project generation and promotion work tends to focus on relatively new or
undeveloped product lines in Mexico which nevertheless have significant
potential, or product lines which require investments too large to be under-
taken solely with private sector initiative.NAFINSA would typically be prepared
to finance part of the projects promoted through suitable equity investments.
The project ideas generated and other background work by NAFINSA could also
provide useful inputs to   other potential investors in the subsector.
Second, NAFINSA's banking wing would also participate under the Program as a
credit institution to channel term financing to existing or new capital goods
producing enterprises for increases in productive capacity. 1/  Third, NAFINSA
would provide the Technical Secretariat of the Coordinating Committee of the
proposed Program, to assist in the operational and administrative aspects of
channeling Bank resources, maintaining the 'Program Account' and other aspects
of Program monitoring (para. 4.15); based on the considerable information and
expertise which it has developed, NAFINSA is also expected to provide important
inputs into the proposed information dissemination system for capital goods
industries (para. 4.08). This last aspect of NAFINSA's role under the proposed
Program is discussed in the next chapter, while the first two aspects are
covered below.
Project Promotion Department
3.05      The Project Promotion Department undertakes subsectoral studies,
identifies project ideas, prepares feasibility studies, and, in the case of
promising industrial projects, carries out the necessary promotion work to
obtain the collaboration of domestic private sector partners and/or foreign
investors. The department is functionally divided into four divisions, one of
which specializes in capital goods industries. The Capital Goods Projects
Division has a total professional staff of 25 of which 15 are directly involved
in project identification, preparation and promotion, while the others provide
technical support and administer a newly formed information center. Identifica-
tion, preparation and promotion of individual capital goods projects is typically
handled by a project team of 2 or 3 professionals with technical, marketing and
financial skills. Additional technical expertise can be made available by one
of the UNIDO experts collaborating with NAFINSA in studying the subsector
(para. 1.27).
1/   In the case of projects promoted by its industrial promotion wing, NAFINSA's
policy has been to preferably obtain credit from other banking institutions,
rather than from its own banking wing.



- 27 -
3.06      NAFINSA's prefeasibility studies of proposed capital goods manufactur-
ing investments cover the technical, market, financing and other relevant
aspects. Upon completion of the study for a particular project, NAFINSA
invites offers from potential technology partners. The offers received are
compared with respect to competitiveness of prices, exports and net foreign
exchange impact, financial return, technology absorption, etc., and the best
offer is chosen. There have been very few cases to date in which a local
private sector enterprise has been chosen at an early stage as a project
partner and invited to participate jointly with NAFINSA in the prefeasi-
bility study and technology selection process. This appears to have been
the result of a perception within the private sector that NAFINSA is primarily
a public sector oriented entity. The lack of a close participation of a local
private sector partner with prior experience in capital goods manufacture has
tended to prolong the gestation period of new projects and weakened NAFINSA's
position in negotiations with foreign partners.
3.07      Negotiations are then initiated with the chosen partner(s) on the
financing plan of the project, the relative share contributions of the partners,
technology transfer agreements, marketing, procurement procedures, plant
location, legal status of the enterprise to be formed, etc. If these are
successfully completed, the project proposal together with the amount, terms
and conditions of NAFINSA's proposed equity participation is submitted for the
authorization of NAFINSA's Director General, and later for ratification by
NAFINSA's Project Appraisal Committee which is chaired by the Under-Secretary
of SEPAFIN. Subsequently, steps are taken to constitute a new enterprise (if
applicable) and formalize the NAFINSA's equity participation.
3.08      Over the last four years, NAFINSA has prepared more than 20 prefeasi-
bility studies, covering a wide spectrum of product lines, particularly in the
areas of: metal products and metal working (e.g., heavy foundry-forge and
fabrication, boilershop and large diameter pipes); process equipment (process
pumps, valves and speed reducers); electrical and associated machinery (turbo-
generators, hydraulic turbines and minicomputers); agricultural equipment
(farm tractors); and other general and special purpose machinery and equipment
(mineral crushers, earthmoving equipment, radial drilling machines, large
chain saws, etc.). Despite an impressive effort in generating many project
ideas and elaborating sectoral and prefeasibility studies, NAFINSA has had
only a limited success in bringing capital goods manufacturing projects to a
'bankable' stage where outside entrepreneurs and financing agents show active
interest in participation. 1/ A greater entrepreneurial orientation for
the project promotion staff (for example, through orientation/training courses
to help in dealing with technology transfer issues and in designing complex
1/   The most important projects developed to date have been those for heavy
forge and foundry facilities (NKS), large pumps (KSB), large diameter
pipes (PROMETUSA), and turbogenerators of 1 to 60 MW capacity (TURALMEX).
All except one of these are still in the initial stages of implementation.
NAFINSA expects to be able to finalize several more capital goods proj-
ects in the near future, including those for earthmoving eqipment,
hydraulic turbines, textile machinery and valves for process industries.



- 28 -
financing packages), and a closer involvement of Mexican private sector
partners from an early stage in project processing should help to address this
shortcoming. This point has been conveyed to NAFINSA and would be addressed
in part through the proposed training/orientation courses under the Program
(para. 4.05).
Credit Department
3.09      NAFINSA's Credit Department has total professional staff of about
95, organizationally divided into the Credit Analysis division, which is
responsible for evaluation of credit requests received, and the Credit Opera-
tions division, which carries out formalization, administration and supervision
of approved credit operations. An indicative organization chart is included in
Annex 8, C-2. NAFINSA's internal regulations allow it to make fixed assets
or working capital credits, provided that its participation is no more than
50% of the total project costs. Annex 7, T-20 provides a summary of the
various types of financing operations carried out by NAFINSA. The Credit
Department can also process endorsements ("avales") to foreign banks or
suppliers. NAFINSA's evaluation of its credit applications covers the financial,
economic, technical and marketing aspects of the firms, the financial viability
of the firm being the single most important consideration. In line with the
government's priorities, special attention is paid in credit evaluations to
socio-economic aspects such as decentralization, employment generation and
environmental impact. NAFINSA's analysis of the above aspects, while generally
of good quality, is typically focussed on the firm as a whole, with little
analysis of the incremental impact of the investment project. Under the
proposed Program, NAFINSA would be required to include in all its financing
requests for credits an incremental analysis and a ERR calculation following
guidelines acceptable to the Bank (standard guidelines for DFCs involving use
of border prices and similar to the guidelines being used by FONEI -- para.
3.21). All subproject appraisals under the Program would also have to
include an adequate consideration of subcontracting possibilities, training
needs and procurement issues (paras. 1.35 and 4.06). Credit supervision and
portfolio control procedures employed by NAFINSA include periodic analysis of
financial statements, routine plant visits and special control steps in case
of arrears or other financial difficulties; these procedures appear satisfac-
tory and the arrears in loan portfolio are within acceptable limits. The
final authority for deciding on credit proposals rests with NAFINSA's Credit
Committee which is appointed by its board; but the Committee has delegated
approval authority for the smaller operations to the Director General or his
appointees. 1/
3.10      NAFINSA's onlending rates to final beneficiaries on loans made using
own resources are in 1.75 to 5.5 percentage points above the ACF index (para. 2.09),
depending on the economic activity (most importantly, the priority category
specified by the government); geographic zone (in accordance with the National
Industrial Development Plan), and type of borrower (private, public or mixed
enterprise). Annex 7, T-21 shows the interest rates to industry as of mid-1981.
1/   NAFINSA has 19 branch offices throughout the country, which undertake
part of the credit appraisal and supervision responsibilities, particularly
in the case of smaller operations; about 20 additional branches are
planned to be opened over the next 2 years.



- 29 -
3.11      While the overall amount of credit granted by NAFINSA grew rapidly
in real terms in recent years (Annex 7, T-22), the level of NAFINSA's financing
of the capital goods industries has been varying; after a sharp drop in 1978,
the credit to the capital goods sector more than doubled in nominal terms in
1979 and then fell again in 1980 (to about US$235 million equivalent). In
the 1977-80 period, more than two-thirds of capital goods financing were short-
term operations (Annex 7, T-23). Non-electrical machinery and transport
equipment accounted for 35% and 39% respectively of the total numbers of credit
operations for capital goods industries. The amount of financing, however,
shows a marked skewness in distribution: nearly 90% of the credit to capital
goods industries was for manufacturers of heavy transport equipment (i.e.,
trucks, buses and tractors) (Annex 7, T-24). The skewness is explained in
large part by a heavy lending program during 1977-80 to Diesel Nacional, S.A.,
which accounted for 56% of total lending to capital goods industries. The
proposed Program is expected to help NAFINSA reverse this trend and develop
a more diverse set of capital goods industries.
B. Organizacion SOMEX
3.12      Organizacion SOMEX is a vigorous banking conglomerate with 'mixed'
ownership 1/ which operates essentially as a private sector bank while striving
to achieve the developmental objectives laid down by the Government. The
banking wing of the group, Banco Mexicano SOMEX, provides short, medium-
and long-term credit to industry. Through its holding company subsidiary
called Fomento Industrial Somex S.A. (FISOMEX) the group also holds equity
participations (usually controlling shares) in a diverse set of industries.
Over the past 2-3 years FISOMEX has been moving increasingly into investments
in capital goods manufacturing projects, with emphasis on rationalization of
existing industries and with the stated aim of aggressively competing in the
market to promote efficiency in the subsector.
3.13      Organizacion SOMEX emerged during the late 1970s through a sequential
merger of the Sociedad Mexicana de Credito Industrial (SOMEX, an investment bank)
with the Financiera Hipotecaria and Banco Mexicano. Its banking wing (Banco
Mexicano SOMEX), a multipurpose bank, is now the fifth biggest among private
and mixed banking institutions in Mexico. The holding company wing (FISOMEX)
was created in 1979 to promote new industrial projects in the private sector
and to control the industrial, real estate and tourism enterprises in which
the group is a shareholder. In addition to the banking and industrial wings,
Organizacion SOMEX also has a corporate services wing in charge of legal,
fiduciary, administrative and overseas operations (see organization chart in
Annex 8, C-3). Organization SOMEX's board (Administrative Council) is composed
of high level representatives from SHCP, SPP, Banco de Mexico, NAFINSA,
1/   A 'mixed' institution is one with joint state and private sector ownership
(generally with the state having a controlling share), but classified as
a private sector bank for legal purposes. Organizacion SOMEX is the most
prominent 'mixed' banking institution supporting Mexico's industrial
sector. It has about 70% state ownership.



- 30 -
BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras Publicas), PEMEX and the private sector.
The Council meets once a month to take decisions on financing requests,
investment proposals and other policy matters. The Executive President of
Organizacion SOMEX also chairs the Administrative Council. Each of the three
main wings (banking, industry and services) is headed by an Executive Vice-
President.
Industry Wing (FISOMEX)
3.14      FISOMEX is organized into several 'Corporate Directorates' accord-
ing to the type of industrial activity of its holdings. FISOMEX has recently
created a capital goods industries department within its 'Corporate Directorate
for Development' to supervise its expending acquisitions and holdings of
capital goods manufacturing enterprises and to prepare and promote new or
expansion projects in this field suitable for further equity participations by
FISOMEX. The department is still at an early stage of organization, with less
than 10 professional staff by mid-1981; a number of additional budgeted slots
are expected to be filled in the near future. The department's indicative
organization chart is presented in Annex 8, C-4. Investment operations and
projects in the heavy transport equipment area (buses, truck parts, etc.),
which would also qualify as capital goods under the proposed definition
(Annex 2), are handled by FISOMEX's Corporate Directorate for Automobiles and
Auto-parts.
3.15      FISOMEX started its acquisition program in the capital goods
industries field a few years back. The focus of the acquisition program so
far has been to consolidate and rationalize existing capital goods manufacturing
operations, with a view to later expanding the productive capacity of such
operations.  In selecting projects under its acquisition and expansion
programs, FISOMEX gives particular weight to the market analysis and inter-
national and domestic competitiveness.  Thus far, FISOMEX has acquired four
firms involved in manufacture of engineering equipment: Mecanica Falk, which
manufactures speed reducers and transmission mechanisms; MECAMEX, which
produces a diversified line of small machine tools; and the Fairbanks-Morse
Manufacturing Company and its Central-American affiliate, which manufacture a
variety of mechanical and electrical equipment including small machine tools
(especially lathes and drilling machines), agricultural and municipal pumps,
compressors, electrical transformers (monophasic and distribution transformers
of capacities in the 37.5-75 KVA) and A.C. motors. These product lines are
expected to be further diversified and expanded over the the coming 2-3 years.
In addition, FISOMEX expects to continue and expand its strong involvement in
the manufacture of transportation equipment and parts, including the production
of trolley buses (through holding in Mexicana de Autobuses, S.A.), trucks and
trailers (through holdings in Traksomex, S.A. which has the collaboration of
Mack Trucks, Inc. of the United States). FISOMEX also expects to expand
its involvement in manufacturing crankshafts for VAM and Chrysler
engines as well as a new line of crankshafts for Perkins diesel engines
(through MACIMEX); diesel engines with collaboration from General Motors
(Somex Diesel Allison); and tractors and other farm equipment (through a new
operation to be established in 1981/82). FISOMEX has recently also started
a new engineering company (Proyecta) with collaboration from Davy-McKee
Corporation to facilitate the group's entry into the engineering software and
'product engineering' fields.



- 31 -
3.16      Final authority to approve equity investments of FISOMEX rests with
the Administrative Council of Organizacion SOMEX. The Council has, however,
delegated to the Executive President and his appointee(s) the authority to
approve operations involving amounts below 5% of FISOMEX's capital subject to
certain cumulative limits. As of December 31, 1980, FISOMEX had total equity
holdings in subsidiaries and affiliates (including minority equity positions)
totalling about US$37.5 million equivalent distributed among nearly 60 companies.
The policy of the group is to hold a controlling equity participation in the
associated companies, whenever feasible, in order to be able to actively
affect the market and production strategy of the companies. Its stated
strategy for future investments in the capital goods area is to focus on:
(i)  product lines which are currently fragmented so that a
consolidation and specialization could yield potential
profits and drive down product prices;
(ii)  products in whose production technology absorption is a
major factor, which is considered by FISOMEX to be an area
of its comparative advantage; and
(iii)  projects which involve development of capital goods industry
'infrastructure' (e.g., heavy fabrication), and product and
process engineering ('engineering software').
FISOMEX's acquisitions and investments to date appear consistent with this
strategy, and show good promise for success.
Banking Wing (Banco Mexicano SOMEX)
3.17      The Credit Department of the banking wing is responsible for managing
all credit operations. It is headed by a Corporate Director and organized
into several sub-directorates. The Sub-directorate for Development Credit,
which would handle the group's credit operations under the proposed Program,
is comprised of five divisions, of which three carry out credit appraisal work
(one each for the public sector, private sector and tourism), one handles
the legal and administrative aspects of approved credits, and one deals with
credit supervision. Currently the Sub-directorate has some 60 professionals,
including 18 credit analysts (referred to as 'account managers') (Annex 8,
C-5). To the extent feasible, the credit analysts specialize by line of
productive activity. Organizacion SOMEX's board has delegated the authority
to approve credits smaller than Mex$100 million to a Credit Committee appointed
by the board, and in case of smaller amounts, to the President and his executive
staff. The criteria, procedures and quality of credit evaluation and super-
vision are essentially similar to those of NAFINSA's Credit Department
described earlier (para. 3.09). As in the case of NAFINSA, while most credit
appraisal staff have the competence to carry out a full project analysis
including ERR and FRR calculations, this is not always included in the credit
appraisal process. Under the proposed Program, Banco Mexicano SOMEX would be
required to include a full analysis of the incremental economic impact of
projects submitted for Program financing, following guidelines similar to
those applicable for NAFINSA and FONEI (paras. 3.09 and 3.21).



- 32 -
3.18      Although SOMEX is predominantly an industrial credit institution,
the group's involvement in financing capital goods industry investments at a
significant scale is of a more recent origin. Only two such projects totalling
Mex$248 million were approved in 1978; the number grew to 10 credit operations
in 1980 for a total amount exceeding Mex$1.5 billion. Over the 1978-81
period, more than two-fifths of the credit operations, amounting to over 50%
of the total credit went for metallic products, followed by non-electrical
machinery which accounted for one-third of the total number of capital goods
industry operations and one-fourth of the total amount (Annex 7, T-25). Of
the 18 credits approved in this period, 5 were for new plants, and the remaining
for expansion or diversification of existing capacities, with Banco Mexicano
SOMEX's financing representing some 35% of total project cost. About 70% of
the financing was medium-to-long term credit for fixed assets and permanent
working capital. The group's financing of capital goods industries is expected
to be further extended and diversified under the proposed Program.
C. Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
3.19      FONEI was established in 1971, following extensive discussions between
the Mexican authorities and the Bank, to help improve industrial efficiency, the
structure of industrial financing, and the country's balance of payments position.
FONEI was set up as a trust fund of Banco de Mexico, to provide supplemental
term financing through the entire network of Mexican commercial and multi-
purpose banks for industrial projects which would have a positive impact on the
balance of payments through higher exports or efficient import substitution.
Additional operational objectives were emphasized as FONEI became a more mature
institution, the most important being to strive towards an efficient allocation
of resources through the financial system by inducing banks to make their lending
decisions increasingly on the basis of comprehensive project appraisal, to
promote industrial efficiency by encouraging enterprises to prepare detailed
feasibility studies, and to encourage lending for new high priority activities
such as pollution control and technology development. To help achieve these
objectives, the Bank has made four loans to FONEI totalling US$360 million. 1/
A full institutional appraisal of FONEI is available in the Staff Appraisal
Report prepared and circulated to the Executive Directors in connection with
the latest FONEI loan (Report No. 2478b-ME of May 10, 1979). The following
is a summary description of the main features and recent developments.
3.20      FONEI's Technical Committee (its highest decision-making body)
is composed of high level government officials. Its chairman is the Director
General of Public Credit of the Ministry of Finance, and other members include
representatives of the Ministries of National Patrimony and Industrial Develop-
ment, and of Commerce, Banco de Mexico, NAFINSA, IMIT (para. 1.29), and two
representatives of the private sector nominated by the chambers of commerce
and industry. The Committee meets once a month to decide on all proposals
for FONEI financing above Mex$15 million. Decisions for credits below this
amount are delegated to FONEI's Director. An organization chart of FONEI is
included in Annex 8, C-6.
1/   Loans 824-ME of June 1972, 1205-ME of April 1976, 1560-ME of September
1978 and 1712-ME of July 1979.



- 33 -
3.21      The policies and procedures which govern FONEI's operations are set
forth in  its Operating Regulations (Annex 6), which may be modified by FONEI's
Technical Committee in consultation with the Bank. They define the types of
projects that may be financed by FONEI, terms and limits of subloans, interest
rates, criteria for project selection, responsibilities of the intermediaries and
final beneficiaries, and procedures for FONEI's authorization of financing.
These Operating Regulations specify that in selecting projects for financing,
FONEI should consider, inter alia, the following economic criteria: (i) the
project's foreign exchange generation or savings; (ii) its economic rate of
return; (iii) its utilization of labor and its value added; and (iv) industrial
decentralization aspects. The maximum amount of financing FONEI can normally
provide to a single investment project is Mex$200 million. However, to
facilitate significant participation in relatively large projects considered
of high priority by the government (e.g., capital goods and petrochemicals),
FONEI can approve financing in excess of the above amount provided prior
authorization of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. FONEI's subloans have
maximum maturities of 13 years, including up to 3 years of grace. FONEI
recently also initiated a risk-sharing program to provide a special stimulus
to technology research, development and adaptation activities of industries,
under which it may provide a partial grant and may waive the client's obliga-
tion to repay in case the research project becomes a non-success (para. 1.33).
3.22      FONEI requires its resources to be complemented by funds from
clients and financial intermediaries. To ensure adequate capitalization,
final borrowers for investment projects are required to finance at least 25%
of fixed asset costs of new investment projects and 20% of expansion projects.
The intermediaries are required to finance at least 15% of FONEI's financing
for new projects (which in turn is limited to 65% of project cost), and 11% in
the case of expansion projects where FONEI could provide up to 72% of project
cost. In addition, the intermediary is required by FONEI to ensure that
projects have adequate working capital financing. In practice, FONEI finances
about 40% of project costs on average for investment projects. Onlending
interest rates on FONEI's loans for investment projects are set on a floating
rate basis (adjustable every six months) at two percentage points above the
ACF index (para. 2.09), including a spread of two percentage points for the
intermediary bank, which assumes the full credit risk. Loans granted for
pollution control and technology improvement are eligible for interest rates
which are 2%-5% lower than its regular rates to help stimulate these activities.
3.23        FONEI's project appraisal and supervision capabilities have
developed well over the years. It has been reasonably successful in its
efforts to encourage the intermediary banks to take over the responsibility
for carrying out full project appraisals before submitting the financing
requests to FONEI and to undertake regular and systematic supervision of the
projects. This was partly achieved by offering additional spreads of 0.25-0.5%
to intermediary banks willing to assume project appraisal responsibility, and
a further 0.25% if the bank also agrees to undertake full project supervision
following FONEI's guidelines. FONEI is currently considering steps to further
improve its project monitoring and supervision procedures.



- 34 -
3.24      FONEI's lending operations and loan portfolio have grown rapidly
over the past five years (with an almost 10-fold increase in portfolio
since 1976), as a result of vigorous domestic demand as well as the promotional
efforts and expanding contacts of FONEI with private sector industries and
banks. New loan approvals in 1981 were about US$300 million equivalent, for
about 110 projects (compared to about US$200 million equivalent in 1980
distributed among 80 projects) (Annex 7, T-26). 1/ Total loan portfolio of
FONEI at year-end 1981 stood at about US$415 million equivalent. The income
picture and overall financial condition are satisfactory, with a substantial
growth in the net income from 1979 to 1980 and good prospects for continued
growth.
3.25    In recent years, FONEI's financing for industries manufacturing
capital goods and components amounted to 35-40% of its total financing, and
covers all the main capital goods categories (Annex 2). A recent ex-post
study carried out by FONEI on the basis of information from supervision
reports submitted by participating banks for a sample of subprojects financed
by FONEI during 1975-80 indicated that the average fixed investment cost
per incremental job created by capital goods industries projects was about
US$29,000 equivalent in 1980 dollars (which is lower than that estimated at
the time of appraisal of these projects), indicating that these projects are
fairly labor intensive. The net foreign exchange earnings of these projects
during the first five years of their operation has been substantial, amounting
to 2-5 times the corresponding fixed investment costs. Annex 7, T-26 shows
that the geographical distribution of projects supported by FONEI has been
bettered over the last two years, with as much as 45% of the financing
going to the highest priority zone (Zone I). 2/
3.26      FONEI expects continued high demand for its financing for capital
goods industries projects through the private banking system. Given
the increased fiscal stimulus and the government's special promotion efforts,
the proportion of capital goods manufacturing projects in its operations is
likely to be at least maintained. Annex 7, T-27 includes a representative
list of investment projects of capital goods industries received for consid-
eration by FONEI.
3.27      A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the First and Second
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Projects (SecM79-535 of June 1979) acknow-
ledged that FONEI financed sound investments, whose foreign exchange savings
performance has been substantial. However, it commented on two important
aspects of FONEI's early operations:
1/   FONEI had 44 budgeted professional slots in its organization structure in
mid-1980, representing a significant increase from 19 in early 1979. Some
further increase in staff may be needed to undertake the contemplated
increases in its operational activity, including an active promotion of
capital goods industries, pollution control and technology development
projects.
2/   FONEI proposes to open three regional offices at Guadalajara, Monterrey
and Mexicali in the near future to further facilitate project promotion
in areas outside Mexico City.



- 35 -
(a)  Given FONEI's attractive onlending interest rates, the relatively
small spreads allowed for FONEI's participating intermediaries,
and the prevailing conditions of credit rationing, the interme-
diary banks (which assume the full credit risks) tended to allo-
cate loans preferentially to their 'prime' borrowers; this led
to a disproportionately high concentration of FONEI's lending
in large and well-established borrowers; and
(b)  FONEI made little progress towards achieving its objective,
set under the Second Bank loan, of encouraging the participat-
ing intermediaries to use project appraisals as a major input
to their lending decisions, rather than lend primarily on
the basis of loan collaterals.
The difficulties noted are in large part due to the fact that FONEI, in
the period covered by the PPAR, was a new institution. Each of these diffi-
culties has been addressed in the Third and Fourth projects which have subse-
quently been approved by the Bank. FONEI's onlending rates have since been
increased and are now on a floating basis linked to the ACF index (para. 3.22).
Interest rate spreads to participating banks have been increased to reasonable
levels to provide them an incentive to assume greater lending risks in the
utilization of FONEI rediscounts and to participate more actively in the
appraisal and supervision of investment projects. Recent evidence indicates
that these measures, together with changes in the banking law, have helped to
reduce banks' collateral requirements and to increase appraisal-based lending.
FONEI's lending is also becoming increasingly diversified, with a lower propor-
tion of the subloans going to the larger clients. FONEI's loan portfolio at
year-end 1981 was distributed among 270 companies, of which 86 companies
borrowed for the first time from FONEI in 1981.
IV. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. The Project
4.01      The proposed project would form the first phase of the Capital Goods
Industries Development Program initiated by the government (para. 1.14), whose
objective is to achieve a balanced and efficient development of the Mexican
capital goods manufacturing subsector and thus help to improve productivity,
employment, balance of payments and long range technology development in
Mexico. To this end, the project would help to correct existing technical,
structural and other deficiencies in the subsector and would provide the
needed financial and technical assistance to individual capital goods manufac-
turing industries, in the context of a suitable policy framework. The focus
of the production and sales financing components of the proposed project,
which would cover the first 2-3 year period of the longer range Program, would
be the development of medium size capital goods industries, while the proposed
complementary measures are oriented to help the development of the entire
subsector by providing needed technical assistance, training, information, and
other facilities. The specific project elements are described below.



- 36 -
Financing of Production
4.02      The financing component to support production of capital goods would
comprise assistance for medium size capital goods manufacturing projects
through:
(a)  financing of medium- to long-term production credits for fixed
asset financing for eligible projects involving the creation
or expansion of productive capacity by capital goods producing
industries;
(b)  financing of equity investments by the implementing agencies
in capital goods producing firms in connection with eligible
investment projects involving the creation or expansion of
productive capacity; and
(c)  financing through the FONEI system for:  (i) specialized tech-
nical and technological assistance provided by local or foreign
consultants or institutes to enterprises involved in the
manufacture of capital goods, including to enterprises supplying
components or services to Mexican capital goods manufacturers
on a subcontracting basis; 1/ and (ii) a risk-sharing scheme to
stimulate research, development, and adaptation activities of
capital goods industries (para. 1.32).
Initially, the program of production credits would be administered by NAFINSA,
Banco Mexicano SOMEX and FONEI, while NAFINSA and FISOMEX would be the
agencies implementing the equity investments program. Participation of these
agencies would provide a balanced mixture of capital goods development projects,
since each of them has a somewhat different role with respect to the promotion
of new or expansion projects. NAFINSA's industrial promotion efforts are
likely to have a heavy emphasis on the creation of new enterprises and the
development of new products, typically with some public sector involvement,
while virtually all of the capital goods projects financed through the FONEI
system are likely to be private sector projects, mainly involving expansion
of existing production capacity or diversification into more sophisticated
products within a product category that is already being produced. Investments
undertaken by FISOMEX, on the other hand, are likely to focus on new or
expanded productive capacity in the context of rationalizing existing produc-
tion structures and consolidating existing production units to enable product
specialization and increased operating efficiency. Other financing agencies
may also participate in implementing the Program, as may be recommended
1/   Such assistance would be oriented towards achieving imaprovements in
areas such as quality control, product design, production processes,
production planning, market research, management systems, and related
on-the-job or other training.



- 37 -
by the Coordinating Committee of the Program (COCOFIN) and agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank. The most likely additional candidates for
participation appear to be FOMIN and FOGAIN, the NAFINSA-administered trust
funds responsible, respectively, for provision of risk capital and credit
financing to small and medium scale industry. 1/
Sales Financing
4.03      The support for production of capital goods would be complemented
by sales financing to be provided through FOMEX in the form of term credits
to buyers and to suppliers of capital goods on adequate terms and conditions,
in order to facilitate domestic sales of such goods. 2/ It would be ensured
that the terms and conditions of such financing are competitive with those of
foreign suppliers, paying due attention to the need for offering the option of
foreign currency denominated loans in domestic sales financing (para. 2.14).
Complementary measures
4.04      In order to ensure the success of the Program, a number of comple-
mentary measures would need to be implemented to help overcome existing
technical, structural, and other problems facing the subsector. To initiate
this process, the project would include several specific elements described
below, which follow from the sector analysis presented in Chapter I. Bank
financing would be made available to cover part of the foreign exchange cost
involved in implementing these measures (para. 4.20), and local counterpart
resources directly allocated to the Program would be available to meet the
remaining costs. The Program's Coordinating Committee, COCOFIN (para. 1.17),
would have the overall responsibility to monitor the implementation of the
various complementary measures, but would seek the close collaboration of the
principal implementing agencies as well as other concerned agencies (e.g.,
with SEPAFIN on information dissemination system, INFOTEC's technological
information service, etc.) and industry associations. The details of imple-
mentation and coordination of the complementary measures have been included
in a project execution paper prepared by the authorities in connection with
the proposed Program (para. 4.18).
1/   These two trust funds are implementing agencies of the First and Second
Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Projects being supported by
the Bank through Loans 1552-ME and 1881-ME. They could provide useful
links between capital goods manufacturers and SMI enterprises, although
in the past the actual amount of financing by these trust funds to
capital goods industries has been limited.
2/   The amounts, terms and conditions of FOMEX's existing mechanisms for
financing exports of Mexican capital goods appear adequate, and would
be continued during the Program period, but no specific Program support
appears to be necessary to the export financing operations.
I 



- 38 -
4.05      Training.  During implementation of the proposed project, two types
of training programs would be carried out. Firstly, a formal training program
would be undertaken to bolster the capability of the technical staffs of the
principal implementing agencies for preparing, promoting, and/or evaluating
capital goods development projects. The training program would focus on the
areas of technology assessment, technology absorption possibilities, design of
technology transfer agreements, and formulation of complex financing packages
involving several parties and foreign companies (paras. 1.42). Secondly, more
detailed seminars or 'mini-courses' for specialized technical and financial
staff of industries and the principal financing agencies would be designed on
specific topics relevant to the preparation and review of capital goods
manufacturing projects. Annex 9 includes an indicative list of the topics to
be covered.
4.06      To improve availability of information on training facilities (para.
1.44), and facilitate planning and implementation of human resource development
programs by industries, a comprehensive survey of all available training
courses relevant to capital goods industries would be carried out. The survey
would cover vocational as well as more advanced technical training and manage-
ment orientation courses, from all sources in Mexico, and would include
information on the course content, frequency, type of participants, etc. for
each course. The inventory would be made publicly available upon completion.
In addition, an analysis of the technical manpower and training needs of
capital goods industries over the next 5 years, disaggregated by type of
industry and type and level of technicians/skilled workers, would be under-
taken. 1/ Feasibility studies and subproject evaluations submitted by project
sponsors and/or the participating intermediaries in support of financing
requests would be required to include an assessment of the training needs
under the subproject and plans to meet them.
4.07      Technological information and other support services would be
expanded. INFOTEC would be assisted to increase the coverage and level of its
services to the capital goods subsector, e.g., technological information
service, assistance in selection of equipment and suppliers, comparative
analysis of alternative technologies, technological audits, product and
process selection, and industrial engineering. A 'technology gap and compara-
tive advantage' study would be undertaken to evaluate the level of technology
in Mexico in the manufacture of different capital goods product lines and the
feasibility of producing these products in a competitive manner in Mexico.
The study would take into account factors such as the technological complexity
of the product, rate of technological obsolescence, the 'technology ceiling'
(highest technology level attained in the world) and feasibility of attaining
that level in Mexico, the role of economies of scale, structural problems,
existing production capacities and markets. This analysis would then be used
to identify the capital goods product lines in which the 'technology gap' can
be most efficiently filled by Mexican enterprises.
1/   This work would draw on, and coordinate closely with, the work of the
Joint Committee of the Ministries of Education and Labor on Human
Resources Planning, which is currently preparing an aggregate long-
range forecast of the human resource needs of capital goods industries.



- 39 -
4.08      Information Dissemination System.  Two elements included in the
proposed project would be designed to fill the information gaps identified in
Chapter I (para. 1.37). First, an inventory of the effective installed
capacities (together with relevant quality specifications) of major Mexican
capital goods and components manufacturers, including installed capacities for
'job shop' work and other services relevant to capital goods manufacture,
would be carried out to help promote closer linkages between component and
final capital goods manufacturers, and facilitate better informed procurement
decisions by producer and user industries. Second, a broad information
dissemination system would be established and implemented to consolidate the
available subsectoral information on current and projected installed capacities,
available technologies, domestic and international markets for capital goods
and their components, supply-demand characteristics, etc. Annex 9 includes an
indicative list of items and sources of information for the system, which
would be made available in an appropriate format to all interested producer
and user industries. COCOFIN would rely on SEPAFIN for advice in formulating
and implementing the system. 1/ To provide wide dissemination of the informa-
tion, full advantage would be taken of the available information channels of
the chambers of industry, INFOTEC and the financial institutions.
4.09      Other.  COCOFIN would create a suitable mechanism to review other
technical and structural issues affecting the subsector, such as the adequacy
of technical standards (para. 1.40) and strengthening of capability to provide
'engineering software' (para. 1.41). It would also provide support to FOMEX in
promoting sales financing, reviewing the adequacy of domestic sales financing
conditions and terms, and strengthening after-sales service related to both
exports and domestic sales (paras. 2.14 and 4.03).
B. Project Financing and Implementation
Financing Limits, Onlending Terms and Conditions
4.10      The project would focus on the development of medium size capital
goods industries. Only projects with total investment costs below US$50
million equivalent would be financed. Most of the projects are expected to
involve total investment costs in the US$5-40 million range. To avoid undue
concentration of Bank funds, a maximum limit of US$10 million would be
applicable for total Bank financing for any single subproject. Moreover, Bank
financing to any given subproject would not exceed 25% of the total investment
costs involved, which represents a ceiling equivalent to 50% of the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the typical subproject. This limit is expected to
result in the Bank financing of about 30% of the total foreign exchange cost
involved in the investments supported by the Program (para. 4.13). Enterprises
receiving loans under the Program would be required to provide at least 20% of
1/   Representatives of SEPAFIN expressed to the appraisal mission their keen
interest in collaborating with COCOFIN and the Program in this respect.



- 40 -
the total investment costs of the subproject financed.  In the case of equity
investments, Bank financing for a single subproject would be limited to one
half of the total equity contribution by the respective implementing agency
in connection with the subproject, subject to a maximum of $2 million in Bank
financing per subproject. Moreover, no Bank funds would be available for
financing loans by implementing agencies to enterprises in which they hold a
majority ownership. All subproject financing requests submitted for Bank
financing would be required to include a full financing plan for the respective
investments supported.
4.11      Subloans to the final beneficiaries for fixed assets financing
would bear floating interest rates adjustable at least once every six months
to equal the latest monthly ACF Index (para. 2.09) plus 2%. The ACF tends to
move in parallel with inflation, so that these onlending rates can be expected
to lead to positive real interest rates over the life of the loans (para.
2.09). 1/ FONEI's subloans for financing technical assistance would bear
onlending interest rates of 5 percentage points below the rates on its
regular subloans; financing for technology research, development and adaptation
activities on a risk-sharing basis would be on terms and conditions consistent
with FONEI's operating regulations (paras. 1.32 and 3.21). Maximum subloan
amortization periods would be 13 years including up to 3 years of grace.
FOMEX is expected to continue to use floating interest rates of ACF plus 2%
on its peso-denominated credits for financing domestic sales; domestic sales
financing credits denominated in foreign currencies would bear an appropriate
onlending rate which is competitive with the financial market conditions for
loans in the particular currency.
Project Cost, Financing Plan and Cofinancing
4.12      Based on the project pipelines and demand projections of the principal
implementing agencies, and assuming the size and financing limits, terms
and conditions outlined in para. 4.10 above, it is estimated that total
resources of the order of US$1,150 million equivalent would be required for
the target capital goods manufacturing projects over the first 2-3 year period
of the Program. This estimate includes about US$885 million equivalent for
investments in fixed assets and permanent working capital, US$250 million for
sales financing and US$12 million for technical assistance financing. Equity
1/   Spreads to intermediary banks under FONEI's loans would be the same as
currently specified in its operating regulation--viz., 2% plus an addi-
tional spread of 0.25-0.75% depending on the loan size and the acceptance
by the intermediary bank of project appraisal and supervision responsibility
(paras. 3.22 and 3.23).



- 41 -
contributions from the local private sector participants in the projects and
loans from local private banks using their own resources are together expected
to cover some US$370 million equivalent of the investment and technical
assistance financing needs. A direct allocation to the Program from budget
resources would cover the counterpart resource requirements for implementing
the proposed complementary measures under the Program. About $250 million of
term financing is expected to be arranged for domestic sales of capital goods,
primarily through FOMEX which would contribute US$200 million through redis-
counting operations, with the remaining being provided by the intermediary
banks concerned. The remaining resource gap of about US$520 million equivalent,
roughly corresponds to the total estimated foreign exchange cost associated
with the investments supported under the Program; this would be filled
by the proposed US$150 million Bank loan and complementary external resources
raised in connection with the proposed project, as described below. Tables
4.1 to 4.3 provide a full breakdown of the total costs among the different
project components and financing sources.
4.13      The Bank loan would cover about 30% of the foreign exchange content
of Program costs (para. 4.10) leaving substantial amounts of additional
external resources, estimated at about US$370 million equivalent, to be raised
from complementary sources. Of this, about US$150 million equivalent would be
raised by the three principal implementing agencies (NAFINSA, Organizacion
SOMEX and FONEI) in the external markets to provide amounts approximately
matching those of Bank disbursements; 1/ these resources would be raised
through direct financing from foreign private banks, bilateral export credit
or other supplier credit mechanisms arranged by the principal implementing
agencies. Each institution has had prior experience in borrowing from foreign
private banks, and some of the necessary funds have been contracted. 2/ The
balance of foreign exchange needs, estimated to total about US$220 million
equivalent, would be raised in the form of equity contributions by foreign
partners, loans from foreign private banks, and suppliers credits other than
those arranged through one of the principal participating agencies (e.g., in
connection with financing of required imported working capital). This implies a
1/   In the case of FONEI, external resources raised by FONEI together with
those raised by the principal intermediary bank(s) financing the invest-
ment would have to match the resources being provided from the Bank
loan.
2/   For example, NAFINSA currently has open 'global' lines of credit from
official export credit agencies of 13 European, Asian, and American
countries, which offer loans denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign
currencies at attractive interest rates, with maximum amortization periods
ranging between 5 and 12 years. Banco Mexicano SOMEX and some of the
private banks participating through FONEI also have access to open lines
of credit offered by the official export credit agencies; efforts would
be made during project implementation to increase such facilities to
help provide the private sector an easier access and a greater choice
among foreign supplier credits.



- 42 -
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(Million- US$ equivalent)
Complementary External Resourcew
Including Bilateral ExportrCredits              Local Resources  a/              Other External Resources  */            TOTAL
Sack      & Suppliers Credits Raised Through    Local Private   Local Fin-ncial             Foreign       Foeign private Banks
Subprogram                  Financing   Principal Implementing Agencies          Sector Sponsors   Institutions b/  Collaborators    & Other Sourcev
Fixed Investment Credits            130.0                   130.0                                                130.0                                  80.0           470.0
Credits for Permanent
Working Capital                                                                                              120.0                                 100.0            220.0
Equity Investments                 17.0                      17.0                          110.0                  6.0 c/          43.0                                 193.0
Sales Financing                                                                                                250.0 d/                                                250.0
Technical Assistance &
Complementary Measures            3.0                                                      4.3                 5.0 e/                                                 12.0
Frontend loon fee                   2.3                                                      -                   -                 -                    -                2.3
TOTAL                  152.3                    147.0                          114.0               508.0              43.0               180.0          1 147.3
af Indicative estimates based on prior experience taking account of likely changes
bf Figures include any local currency contributions by the principal implementing agencies as -ell as other intermediary banks.
cf Local currency contributions by NAFINSA and FISOMEX.
d/ Includes US$200.0 million equivalent financed through the FOMZX system and US$50.0 million provided by project sponsor.
e/ T>ue 'n~Tr 5 snfllios Af bsem dr,nAaeaa  allocated directly te the Progua  far isplasstiag prepesed eeLplsetry ,senree  Ad 115$2.5 million of
local resources to be provided through FONEI for financing technical assistance eubloans and risk sharing program for technology devaelepent--ea
Table 4.2 bela..
Table 4.2:  Breadown of the Costa & Financing of Technical Assistance & Other Cnpliantary Measures
(Millions us$ equivalent)
Throngs           COCOFIN  and                    Project
XFThoN    Technical Assistance Agencies           Sponsors               Total
(a)  Strengthening of training facilities                                            0.6                                                   0.6
(b)  Expanded technological information &
other support services (including                                              1.2                                                   1.2
techonlogy gap  study)
(c)  Strengthening of informatior dissemination
system                                                                        1.2                                                   1.2
(d)  Special surveys
(Inventory of taIning courses,
disaggregated analys1s of manpower needs                                      0.5                                                   0.5
of industry & special inventory of installed
capacities)
(e)  Financing technical assistance to industries              2.5                                                    2.5                  5.0
(including subcontractors)
(f)  Risk-sharing program for technology development           2.0                                                    1.5                  3.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  4 5                                                   -  1420
(Of which Bank financing)                         2.0                   1.0                                                   3.0
Table 4.3:  Estimated Distrution of Bank Funds
Organizacion  SOYEX                     COCOFIN and
Subprogram                  NAFINSA        FONEI        & Other Program Participants    Technical Assistance Agencies           Total
Fined Investment Credits             42.5a/          62.5                     25.0                                                       130.0
Equity Investments                    100 a/                                  7.0                                                        17.0
Technical Assistance and
Complementary Measures                              2.0                                                        1.0                       3.0
TOTam                     52.5           64.5                     32.0                               1.0                     150.0
a/ Includes possible financing of small and medium sized projects by FOMIN and FOGAIN.



- 43 -
considerable effort by the beneficiary enterprises to raise complementary
external resources at the level of individual projects, which appears feasible.
As one measure to help this, NAFINSA would encourage an increasingly active
participation of the 'coinvestment funds' in providing equity funds to Mexican
projects involving foreign collaborators. 1/ Specific co-financing packages
incorporating the above elements would have to be arranged on a case-by-case
basis for the individual subprojects, to suit the particular project needs and
timing.
Project Implementation and Program Coordination
4.14      COCOFIN (para. 1.17) would oversee the implementation of the Program.
It would establish operating policies and guidelines, review the progress
achieved by each of the implementing agencies in achieving Program objectives,
ensure that subprojects submitted for financing are consistent with the
national priorities for the subsector's development, and supervise the channel-
ing of Program resources. In view of the institutional maturity of the
implementing agencies, the Committee would not involve itself in detailed
evaluation and supervision of subprojects, but would delegate those functions,
to the respective implementing agency. In addition, COCOFIN would make or
recommend allocations or reallocations of Bank and other Program resources
among the implementing agencies, through approval of suitable annual budgets.
Within the approved allocations, individual implementing agencies would be
able to use Bank funds for financing eligible subproject expenditures (paras.
4.21 and 4.23); COCOFIN would review periodically the eligibility of the
expenditures financed with the help of its Technical Secretariat on an ex-post
basis. The arrangements would substantially preserve the autonomy of the
individual implementing agencies in subproject evaluation and supervision and
would not imply unduly cumbersome procedures. Finally, COCOFIN would pay parti-
cular attention to ensuring the implementation of the training, information
dissemination, technical assistance and other complementary measures included
as part of the Program (para. 4.04) and would provide a forum for reviewing
the need for other related measures (para. 4.09).
1/   Under the program of 'coinvestment funds' initiated by NAFINSA several
years back, collaborative agreements are drawn up between NAFINSA and
a participating foreign bank, which together contribute resources to
form a fund, usually 60% by NAFINSA and other Mexican agencies and 40%
by the foreign banks; the proceeds are then used to make minority equity
investments in suitable projects involving joint ventures between Mexican
industries and collaborators in the respective foreign country. While
the amounts of investments made by the coinvestment funds to-date have
been small (totalling about US$18 million equivalent over the past five
years), NAFINSA believes that it can make increasing use of this instru-
ment in the future to play a catalytic role in attracting foreign direct
investments together with required technological collaboration in capital
goods manufacturing industries.



- 44 -
4.15      A Technical Secretariat within NAFINSA would assist COCOFIN in its
day-to-day activities. The Technical Secretariat, which would be headed by a
Subdirector General of NAFINSA, would be responsible for the operational and
administrative aspects of channeling the Bank resources to the principal
implementing agencies for approved subprojects, collection of respective
repayments from the agencies, and maintenance of a separate "Program Account"
to record major inflows and outflows and an information system to facilitate
monitoring. It would prepare for COCOFIN's review proposals for allocation
(or reallocation) of Bank and other Program resources, and would assist in
monitoring the use of assigned budgets.
Channeling Arrangements and Spreads to Implementing Agencies
4.16      Bank funds would be made available through the Program Account
to the principal implementing agencies to finance part of the foreign exchange
content of the fixed assets loans, equity investments and operations for
financing technical assistance or risk-sharing programs to help technology
development. Complementary external resources matching the Bank resources in
amount would be raised by implementing agencies from commercial sources to
cover the remaining part of these financing operations (para. 4.13). Sales
financing would be channeled directly by FOMEX and its intermediary banks.
Bank resources provided under the Program would be repaid by the implementing
agencies into the Program Account, together with an interest equal to 4.0
percentage points below the onlending interest rate applicable on the respective
subloans. 1/ The amortization schedule for the repayments by the implementing
agencies would be identical to the amortization schedule agreed with the final
borrower in the case of subloans; Bank resources provided to the implementing
agencies for making equity investments would be repaid into the Program
Account according to a fixed equal principal payment amortization schedule
over 13 years including up to three years of grace.
Operating Regulations and Project Execution Paper
4.17      The arrangements discussed above relating to the Program coordination,
channeling and repayment of funds, maximum amounts, terms and conditions of
financing, onlending interest rates, and criteria and responsibilities for
subproject evaluation and supervision (paras. 3.09, 3.17 and 3.21) have been
incorporated in the 'operating regulations' of the Program, which were discussed
and agreed upon during loan negotiations. 2/ These operating regulations
have since been formally approved and transmitted to the Bank by the Mexican
Authorities. Any substantial change in the operating regulations during
the project implementation period would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
1/   The interest rate payable by the implementing agencies on resources
borrowed for the purpose of making equity investments would be equal
to that payable in the case of resources for investment subloans.
2/   The operating regulations specifically require all subproject appraisals
to include an economic rate of return (ERR) calculation.



- 45 -
4.18      To facilitate coordination and a close monitoring of the progress
achieved, a 'project execution paper' has been prepared and submitted to the
Bank by the Mexican authorities. The paper, whose text was agreed upon during
loan negotiations, includes a description of the Program, division of respon-
sibilities among the implementing agencies, and a full description and steps
for implementation of the training, technical assistance and other required
complementary measures. The expected time schedules for implementing the
various complementary measures have been transmitted to the Bank through a
separate letter of the Borrower acting as the Technical Secretariat of COCOFIN.
Any material changes in the project execution paper would have to be acceptable
to the Bank.
Annual Reviews
4.19      In view of the complexity of the Program, COCOFIN and the implement-
ing agencies would, with Bank participation, carry out at least once every
year (before December 31 of each year starting in 1983) a full review of the
progress achieved in implementing each of the project elements. The review
would cover the adequacy of the policy framework relevant to capital goods
industries, including any need to revise tariff levels and other elements of
the protection policy, and progress on the utilization of the financing
components and implementation of the complementary measures, with a view to
identify any needed adjustments in the Program's design, financing conditions,
project selection criteria, free-limits and implementation procedures.
Adjustments mutually agreed among the Bank, the Borrower and COCOFIN as a
result of the review would be incorporated in the project.
C. The Proposed Bank Loan
Loan Features
4.20      The proposed US$152.3 million Bank loan would finance about 13% of
the total costs involved in implementing the first phase of the Program as
outlined above (about 30% of the foreign exchange costs -- see paragraph
4.13), in addition to the capitalized US$2.3 million front-end fee on the
loan. The Borrower of the loan would be NAFINSA, acting as the agent of the
government. It is expected that the loan would finance 40-60 investment
subloans, 10-15 equity investments, 20-30 technical assistance financing
operations, and several (say 5-10) individual operations to finance technology
research, development and adaptation activites on a risk-sharing basis. In
addition, funds from the proposed Bank loan would be available to finance the
foreign exchange expenditures related to the implementation of the various
complementary measures envisaged under the Program (para. 4.04). Sales
financing would not be provided using resources of the Bank loan, but would be
supported through local resources (para. 4.16). The eligibility conditions
and financing limits explained in para. 4.10 would be applicable for Bank
financing. About 60% of the Bank loan would initially be allocated among the
agencies, with US$35 million each for NAFINSA and FONEI, US$10 million for
Banco Mexicano SOMEX, US$5 million for FISOMEX and US$2 million for implemen-
tation of complementary measures. The Bank would allocate the remaining part
of the loan resources, and make appropriate reallocations from time to time,



- 46 -
depending on the progress of the different project components, and taking
into account the recommendations of COCOFIN (para. 4.14). The Government
(with NAFINSA acting as its agent), rather than the individual implementing
agencies, would assume the responsibility for servicing the Bank loan, including
the associated foreign exchange risk. Repayments received from the implement-
ing agencies into the Program Account (para. 4.16) would be used as seed capital
for the Program and would have to be relent for purposes similar to those of
the proposed project. In view of these arrangements, and the relatively long
amortization periods expected for subloans, 1/ the proposed Bank loan would be
repaid according to an equal principal payment amortization schedule with
15 years term including 3 years of grace.
Disbursement of Bank Funds
4.21      Subject to the limits specified in para. 4.10, disbursements under
the proposed Bank loan would be made for up to the following percentages of
costs of individual items financed by COCOFIN or the principal implementing
agencies through fixed investment subloans, technical assistance subloans,
equity investments, risk-sharing program for technology development, and
proposed complementary measures under the Program:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
services contracted for implementing the technical assistance
activities and other complementary measures under the Program;
(b) 70% of total expenditures for imported equipment purchased
off-the-shelf in Mexico; and
(c) 45% of the ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured
equipment.
Full documentation to evidence the above expenditures would be required for
authorization of Bank disbursements. Only expenditures made no more than 180
days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank of the corresponding financing
requests would be eligible for reimbursement under the proposed loan. The
proposed extension of the Bank's normal 90-day limit under DFC projects
represents a continuation of the practice under the ongoing loans to FONEI,
and would be justified in view of the complex institutional arrangements
involving several institutions and a multi-stage review process. Annex 1
includes the estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan. The
estimated disbursement schedule is based on the average disbursement profile
for IDF projects in LCP during 1970-80, modified in the later years to reflect
the experience on recent FONEI operations, which provides the most directly
comparable subloan disbursement experience.
1/   Typically 7-12 years, reflecting the nature of capital goods manufac-
turing projects as well as the need to complement substantial amounts
of shorter term co-financing resources.



- 47 -
Procurement and Auditing
4.22      Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
proposed loan would follow the procedures customary to Bank DFC-type projects,
with the principal implementing agencies having the responsibility for ensuring
the competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured and their suita-
bility for the purpose intended. In the case of all individual procurement
packages exceeding US$1.0 million in value, the agencies would require the
beneficiary enterprises to provide specific evidence of adequate international
tendering, with the participation of at least three international suppliers. 1/
Subloan contracts signed by them with the client enterprises or participating
banks (in case of FONEI) would contain provisions to ensure satisfactory
procurement procedures along these lines. These provisions would be reflected
in the Program's operating regulations (para. 4.17). The accounts of NAFINSA,
FONEI, Banco Mexicano SOMEX and FISOMEX, including those kept for the purpose
of the project, and the 'Program Account' (para. 4.15), would be audited
annually by reputable auditors following accounting principles satisfactory to
the Bank.
Approval Limits
4.23      Prior Bank approval would be required for: (i) the first three fixed
asset subloans submitted by each implementing agency; (ii) all fixed assets
subloans involving more than US$2.0 million in Bank financing; 2/ (iii) all
equity investments requiring Bank financing of more than US$1.0 million;
(iv) all equity investments by participating agencies in enterprises in which
they already hold or are expected to hold a majority ownership; and (v) all
subloans for technical assistance financing or financing of risk-sharing
contracts which involve Bank financing of US$200,000 equivalent or more.
These limits are expected to provide for prior Bank review of about one-third
of the subloans and investments financed, accounting for about 60% of the
loan amount.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
4.24      The proposed project is expected to help the efficient development
of the capital goods manufacturing subsector in Mexico through the financial
assistance, policy actions and other complementary measures. Some 50-75 invest-
ment projects involving investment costs of about US$885 million equivalent are
1/   For projects involving new technologies or technology transfer agreements,
the competitiveness of available alternatives would be assessed taking
into account the price, terms, and conditions of the technology transfer
package, any associated equity participation by the potential technology
partner, the price and quality of the equipment to be procured, and the
related financing arrangements.
2/   This limit is equal to FONEI's free-limit established in 1979 for the
ongoing Bank project for general industrial financing (Loan 1712-ME).



- 48 -
expected to be supported; in addition 25-35 operations to finance technical
assistance and technology research, development and adaptation would be
assisted. Most subprojects are expected to have real economic rates of
return (ERR) in the 15-35% range. ERRs would be calculated for all investment
subprojects to ensure the utilization of loan resources only for efficient
projects. Between 20,000 and 24,000 incremental jobs are expected to be
generated by the investments supported at an average investment cost of
US$38,000 to 42,000 equivalent per job. In addition, in view of the strong
forward and backward linkages of capital goods industries with other parts of
the economy, substantial indirect employment impact can be expected. A
significant regional development impact is also expected as a result of the
existing fiscal incentives and other measures to encourage industrial decen-
tralization away from the big cities: about 60% of the investment projects
supported can be expected to be located in the highest priority zone identified
by the National Industrial Development Plan (Zone I), and less than one-tenth
of the investments are likely to be in areas in the immediate vicinity of
Mexico City. Total foreign exchange earnings or savings of US$2.0-3.0 billion
are expected during the first five years of operation of the subprojects
supported; exports generated by the projects are likely to account for at
least US$500-600 million equivalent of this amount. The streamlining and
coordination of the financing structure, policies and complementary technical
support, which the proposed Program would help to achieve, would provide
long-range benefits by facilitating a rational subsector development. Perhaps
the most important long term gain would be the technology absorption, develop-
ment and mastery which is likely to be gained in the process of preparing and
implementing capital goods manufacturing projects and the complementary
measures under the Program, which could have very substantial effects on
future Mexican productivity, employment and balance of payments.
4.25      The project involves two kinds of risks.  First, at the policy
level, the government could hesitate to make the appropriate adjustments in
exchange rate and protection policies in the light of future macro-economic
changes, which would create the risk of encouraging inefficiency in the
capital goods manufacturing subsector. The understandings reached on this
issue and the proposed annual reviews as well as the government's own interest
in ensuring efficiency and developing exports, suggest that this risk is not
large. Moreover, PEMEX and CFE, which account for substantial capital goods
purchases in the country, have expressed their keen interest in maintaining
competitiveness in their domestic purchases, with prices within the stated
margin of 15% vis-a-vis comparable international purchases. Second, the
Program involves complex institutional and coordination arrangements. In
particular, the coordination of financing and a satisfactory execution and
monitoring of the complementary measures require effective management and
coordination on the part of COCOFIN, including delegation of the operational
tasks to specialized agencies. The Bank would closely follow developments
in this regard, paying particular attention to them during the project's
annual reviews. This and the provisions of the project execution paper should
help limit the institutional risk involved. On the whole, the project presents
a moderate degree of risk.



- 49 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreements and/or understandings were
reached:
(i) with the Mexican Government, NAFINSA (in its capacity as
the Borrower) and COCOFIN on:
(a) the loan amount and the project financing plan (para.
4.12);
(b) availability of required counterpart resources to pro-
vide sales financing in adequate amounts, terms and con-
ditions (paras. 4.03 and 2.14), and to implement the
various complementary measures (para. 4.12);
(c) arrangements for channeling the proceeds of the Bank loan
and for repayment of the Bank loan (paras. 4.16 and 4.20);
(d) institutional and coordination arrangements (paras. 4.14
and 4.15);
(e) operating regulations of the Program (para. 4.17); and
(f) policy statement on incentives and protection applicable
to the capital goods subsector (para 1.23).
(ii) with NAFINSA (in its capacity as the Borrower), COCOFIN and the
principal implementing agencies (NAFINSA, FONEI and Organizacion
SOMEX) on:
(a) projects eligible for support, financing limits, terms and
conditions (para. 4.10);
(b) plans for implementing the technical assistance components
and other complementary measures (paras. 4.04, 4.08 and
4.09), and the text of the project execution paper
(para. 4.18);
(c) allocation of the Bank loan resources among the different
implementing agencies and project components and procedures
for their review and reallocation (paras. 4.14 and 4.20);
(d) complementary external resources to be raised by the
principal implementing agencies (para. 4.13);
(e) onlending interest rates (para. 4.11);
(f) annual reviews of the progress in the project's implementa-
tion (para. 4.19);



-50-
(g) criteria and procedures for evaluation of subprojects
(including ERR calculations) by the implementing agencies
(paras. 3.09, 3.17 and 3.21);
(h)  procedures for disbursements of the Bank loan (para. 4.21);
(i) free-limits (para. 4.23); and
(j) procurement and auditing arrangements (para. 4.22).
5.02      Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory revised statement of policy
on protection applicable to capital goods industries (para. 1.23) would be
a special condition of loan effectiveness.



-  51 -                                     ANNEX I
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements a/
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                   Disbursements in              Cumulative
and Quarter                          Quarter                Disbursements
1982-83
December 31, 1982                       2.3                          2.3
March 31, 1983                          4.5                          6.8
June 30, 1983                           6.5                         13.3
1983-84
September 30, 1983                     10.0                         23.3
December 31, 1983                      12.0                         353
March 31, 1984                         15.0                         50.3
June 30, 1984                         16.0                          66.3
1984-'85
September 30, 1984                    22.0                          88.3
December 31, 1984                      22.0                        110.3
March 31, 1985                         16.0                        126.3
June 30, 1985                           9.0                        135.3
1985-86
September 30, 1985                      6.0                       141.3
December 31, 1985 b/                    4.0                       145.3
March 31, 1986                          3.0O                       148.3
June 30, 1986                           2.0                       150.3
1986-87
September 30, 1986                      1.01                      151.3
December 31, 1986 c/                    1.0,                      152.3
a/ The estimated disbursement schedule is based on the average disbursement
profile for DFC projects in LCP during 1970-80, modified in the later years
on the-basis of the experience on the most recent FONEI loans to Mexico, which
represent the subloan disbursement experience most directly comparable to that
under the proposed project.
b/ Last date for submission of subprojects for Bank financing.
c/ Closing date.



- 52 -
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Capital Goods Product Categories as Defined Under the
National Industrial Development Plan 1/
Industries involved in the manufacture of the following goods
are considered as capital goods industries (included in the industries categorized
as Priority I) under the National Industrial Development Plan. Canital Goods
fall under Section 1.2 of the Plan's classification.
1.2.1   Machinery and Equipment for Production of Food and Food
Products
1.2.1.1. Machinery and equipment for industrialization
of food products
1.2.1.2.  Tractors, harvesters and farm machinery.
1.2.1.3.  Airplanes for crop dusting
1.2.2   Machinery and Equipment for the Petroleum and Petro-
chemicals Industries
1.2.2.1.  Machinery and equipment for on-shore and
off-shore exploration and drilling
1.2.2.2.  Valves, axles, shafts, couplings and pumps
1.2.2.3.  Motors, pumps, compressors, turbo-compressors
and blowers
1.2.2.4.  Tubing for drilling, process and support
1.2.2.5.  Tubular heaters and heat exchangers
1.2.3.  Machinery and Equipment for Electrical Industry
1.2.3.1.  Machinery and equipment for generation,
transmission and distribution of high
voltage electricity.
1.2.3.2.  Hydraulic turbines, gas turbines and related
generators of electricity.
1.2.3.3.  Injection pumps, boilers and large piping.
1.2.3.4.  Equipment for measurement and control.
1/ As amended by the decree published on October 7, 1981.



53                                    ANNEX 2
Pag2
1.2.4   Machinery and Equipment for Mining and Metallurgical
Industry
1.2.4.1.  Machinery and equipment for extraction,
concentration and benefaction   of minerals.
1.2.4.2.  Machinery and equipment for coking, peletization
and smelting of ferrous minerals.
1.2.4.3.  Machinery and equipment for smelting, refining,
molding and lamination of metals.
1.2.4.4.  Machinery and equipment for manufacture of
metallic products involving sheets, wires and
rods.
1.2.5.  Machinery and Equipment for Construction
1.2.5.1.  Machinery and equipment for construction industry.
1.2.5.2.  Earthmoving and soil conditioning machinery and
equipment.
1.2.6.  Transport Equipment
1.2.6.1.  Tractor-trucks, heavy and semi-heavy trucks and
trolley buses and integrated buses.
1.2.6.2.  Boats for non-sport activities and their parts
and components.
1.2.6.3.  Railway locomotives, railing cars, heavy railway
equipment and installation and their parts and
components.
1.2.7.  Machinery and Equipment for Diverse Industries
1.2.7.1.  Machine tools
1.2.7.2.  Carbon and alloy steel tubing
1.2.7.3.  Pumps, compressors, valves, couplings and
conveyor belts for process industries.
1.2.7.4.  Measurement, control and laboratory equipment
for industrial use
.1.2.7.5.  Direct or alternating current motors greater than
1 HP and their controls.
1.2.7.6.  Machinery and equipment for cement industry.
1.2.7.7.  Machinery and equipment for paper and cellulose
industry.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
1.2.7.8.  Foundry, forging and molding of parts for
machinery and equipment made of iron, steel
and their alloys.
1.2.7.9.  Heavy fabrication, machining and welding.
1.2.7.10. Industrial boilers and heat exchangers
1.2.7.11. Machinery and equipment for-textile, garment
and leather industries.
1.2.7.12. Machinery and equipment for plastics and glass
industries.
1.2.7.13. Industrial refrigeration machinery and equipment.
1.2.7.14. Machinery and equipment for materials handling.
1.2.7.15. Machinery and equipment for packaging and bottling.
1.2.7.16. Diesel motors for general use and their components.
1.2.7.17. Machinery for preventing  environmental pollution.
1.2.7.18. Machinery and equipment for water wells.
1.2.7.19. Velocity reducers for industrial use.
1.2.7.20. Metal molds, dies and matrices.
1.2.8. Industrial Electronics Equipment and Components
1.2.8.1. Electronic telephone equipment.
1.2.8.2.  Industrial and communications electronic
equipment and components.
1.2.8.3. Electronic computers and components.
1.2.8.4. Integrated circuits and electronic components of
general use-
1.2.8.5. Manufacture of electronic equipment for
measurement and control.
Vl



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Investment
Offered Under the 1979 Decrees Issued with NIDP
Priority  Sectors                                                    All Industrial Activities
Geographic Location                                                                                      Other          Purchase  of        Employment Generated
of Investment         Small Enterprises b/   Activity Category 1 c/  Activity Category 2 d/  Industries              Local Equipment    !y Additional Shifts
Zone I
Preferential             25% Investment           20% Investment             15% Investment            -                  5%               20% Additional
20% Employrment           20% Employment            -                                       Employment
Zone II
State Priorities         25% Investment           20% Investment             10% Investment            -                  52               20% Additional>
20% Employment            20% Employment            -                                        Employment
Reat of the Country        25% Investment e/         20% Investment            10% Investment e/          -                  5%              20% Additional              -n
20% Employment            20% Employnent e/                                                  Employment
Zone III
A. Controlled growth                                       -                                             -                  5-
B. Consolidated growth  25% Investment e/           20% Investment e/         10% Investment e/          -                  5%              20% Additional
20% Employment e/         20% Employment e/         -                                        Employment
a/ Geographic zones are defined in the decree published in Diario Oficial. February 2, 1979.  Fiscal credits can be used for the payment
of any federal tax which is not im,lased for a specific use. The percentages shown in the table for investment are applied to the total
value of construction and installations and the purchase of new machinery and equipment directly related to the production process; it
is granted at the time of undertaking of the expenditure. In the case of employment, the percentage is applied for a period of two years
on the new employment valued at the annual mininmum wage.
b/ Enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding 200 times the annual minimum salary in the Federal District.
c/ includes agroindustries, capital goods producing industries and strategic inputs for the industrial sector (e.g. steel, cement)
d/ Includes non-durable consumer goods, durable consumer goods and intermediate products specified in decree published in Diario Oficial,
March 9, 1979.
eI/  pplied only to expansions of productive capacity in the same industrial activity.
Source: Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fosento Industrial, Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial, 1979-1982 (Mexico, 1979) p. 181.
W



- 56 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
Institutional Infrastructure for Technology Development
By Industries
1.        Industry in Mexico has now reached a relatively high degree
of sophistication and there exists a substantial pool of important
engineering and technical skills. If Mexican industry is to further
increase local value added and compete efficiently in world markets,
there is a need to focus increasingly on the technology factor in
industrial development and develop indigenous capabilities for
technological acquisition, adaptation and innovation. This would help
the development of new or improved products, more efficient production
methods, and new processes to use available raw materials. The
capital goods industries subsector has a key role in this respect
because capital goods often act as the carriers of technology
development and the capability to design and manufacture them is a
good indicator of the degree of technological mastery'. Recognizing
the importance of technology issues, Mexican authorities have created
a relatively large institutional infrastructure to support
technological development in industry.
2.        The Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(IMIT) was one of the pioneer institutions established in the area of
industrial research and development, having been established in the
fifties with the help of the Armour Research Foundation. IMIT is
partly funded by the Mexican Government, through Banco de Mexico, and
partly by revenues from industrial and banking clients for project
preparation and evaluation. IMIT also conducts technological research
for enterprises for a fee. The main focus of IMIT's research
activities has been in the food and processing technologies rather
than in capital goods subsector per se.
3.        More recently, in 1970 the government created the Consejo
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) to formulate and implement
national policies aimed at strengthening the links between research
organizations and industrial enterprises. Its activities were
focussed initially only on science and the related support to human
resource development. Since 1978, CONACYT has moved increasingly into
technological development field. CONACYT has been instrumental in the
creation of 12 technological research and development centers to date,
and the provision of technical services to medium and small-scale
industry. In general, the centers which deal with the metalworking
industry are not as developed as those related to processing
industries. The most relevant to capital goods industries are two
relatively new and small centers: Instituto Mexicano de
Investigaciones en Manufacturas Metal Mecanicas, A.C. (IMEC) located
in San Luis Potosi, which provides simple designs for equipment and
tools and assistance in production engineering to small-scale
metalworking industries in the region (25 professionals); and Centro
de Investigacion y Asistencia Tecnologica del Estado de Queretaro,



- 57 -                                 ANNEX 4
Page 2
A.C. (CIATEQ), established in 1978 in Queretaro, which is oriented
towards the provision of services to small-scale metalworking
industries on metal cutting, thermal treatment and forging processes.
(15 professionals). CONACYT has been the recipient of a US$50.0
million loan approved earlier this year (1981) by the Inter-American
Development Bank mainly for strengthening the science and technology
research centers, institutes and departments functioning under its
auspices.
4.         Although it lies outside CONACYT's institutional system,
mention should also be made of the Institute of Electrical Investi-
gations (IIE) at Cuernavaca, which has achieved a higher level of
performance than the aforementioned centers. It has a staff of over
400 professionals. While legally an independent institute, it depends
heavily on CFE, which contributes a large share of its budget (38%)
and provides the bulk of its work. The Instituto Mexicano del
Petroleo (IMP), which is a research institute set up by PEMEX, is a
well established research and development institute enjoying worldwide
reputation for basic as well as applied research in the petroleum and
petrochemicals field. Part of IMP's research activities are concerned
with the design and development of equipment for petroleum extraction
and refining and petrochemicals processing, a field in which IMPs
contributions have been significant.
4.         The Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (INFOTEC), a
spin-off of CONACYT, is a trust fund administered by NAFINSA, and
provides technical information, technological advice and related
support services to Mexican firms of varying size and industrial
sophistication. It was designed after the Danish and Canadian
technological information services. Since its establishment in 1972,
INFOTEC has shown an impressive growth performance and an ability to
generate the interest of private Mexican firms in its services. At
present it has about 140 employees, of which approximately one half
are professionals. The services offered include: technology
information search, using the resources of its own library and
periodicals subscriptions and through a network of relationships with
other information centers, R&D centers and consultants; industrial
liaison service under which INFOTEC seeks to identify, through plant
visits, the technological information needs, problems and business
opportunities of the industrial firms; an 'enquiry service to answer
specific technical questions received in written form or by telephone;
publication of a technical news bulletin; technical document
acquisition service (e.g., acquisition of copies of patents,
standards, etc.); and specialized technical assistance services to
cater to specific requests from firms, e.g., for assistance in
feasibility or market studies, plant layout, process optimization,
analysis of alternative suppliers of technology, etc. Approximately
one half of INFOTEC's budget needs are covered by fees paid by client
enterprises.l/
1/   INFOTEC has been the most active among the specialized technical
assistance agencies participating in the first and second small
and medium scale industries development projects (Loans 1552-ME
and 1881-ME).



- 58 -
5.        INFOTEC-s  board is comprised of representatives from SPP
(Secretariat of Programming and Budget), SEPAFIN, SHCP, Banco de
Mexico, NAFINSA, Banco Mexicano-SONEX, Banco Internacional and the
National Federation of Chambers of Industry (CONCAMIN). Its
organization currently includes a separate department concentrating on
capital goods industries (with 15 professionals). INFOTEC expressed
strong interest in expanding its services oriented specifically
towards capital goods industries.
6.        Finally, Mexico also has a large number of competent
private sector consulting companies which can provide a wide range of
engineering, project preparation or other services. Some of the
consulting companies have foreign associations and hence have easy
access to technological information from foreign services. A few of
the universities are also initiating programs oriented towards
technology development and provision of services to industry, e.g., a
new center for mechanical design is expected to be established in the
engineering faculty of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
(UNAM).



-59-.                                                 ANNEX 5
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Mexican Technical Education and Training System for Industry
LEVELS:
LOWER            UPPER              HIGHER
PRIMARY      SECONDARY        SECONDARY             LEVEL                ARMO - Adiestramiento Rapido de Mano de Obra--a U.N.
assisted program established in 1966 for brief
but intensive vocational training in several
specializations (with course durations ranging
UNIVERSITIES                   from a few months to more than one year) as well
CECYT            AND  HIGHER                     as training courses for first line shop
l_______ l         TECHNOLOGICAL                   supervisors and trainers; at present it has
] TECHNICAL                       1 INSTITUTES                     normal capacity of 40,000 to 50,000 trainee
SECONDARY                                                          hours.
CECYT- Centros de Estudios Cientificos y Tecnologicos
(Centers for Scientific and Technological
PRIMARY                                                                          Studies), similar to CET referred to below.
'l              ICECATI - Centros de Capacitaci6n para el Trabajo
'.1  CECATI                                                           (Industrial Training Centers)--for terminal
technical training of smi-skilled and skilled
workers through courses of up to 40 weeks;
CET                                            nrimary school attendance is not a prerequisite
CONALEP              CENAPRO                      for entry  into the CECATI system
CERETI
ENAMACTI                                   CET  - Centros de Estudios Tecnologicos (Centers for
Technological Studies--which provides terminal
technical training as well as training in
|  ARMO    l   ITR         preparation to university.
ARMO                                    CENAPRO- Centro National de Productividad (National
Productivity Center) - offers training programs
(including on-the-job training) for shop foremen
cUSTOII                                          and middle level technical and managerial staff;
DESIGNED                                           its courses can be designed for individuals or
TRG PROGRAMS                                        specifically for an individual enterprise upon
request. I/
CERETI - Centros Regionales de Enseefanza Tecnica (Regional
Technical Teacher Training Centers).
CONALEP - Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional y
Tecnica (the National System of Professional &
Technical Education),a semi-autonomous agency of
the Ministry of Education, which provides terminal
programs for skilled workers and lower and
technicians through a national system of
training centers.
ENAMACTI - Escuela lacional de Maestros de Caoacitaci5n.
pare el Trabajo Industrial. (National School
for Industrial Technical Trainers).
ITR  - Institutos Tecnologicos Regionales (Regional
Technological Institutes).
Custom -Designed
Programs - Training programs undertaken by individual
industrial firms to suit the specific needs of
their technicians and skilled workers; they are
typically designed and administered with the
assistance of a consulting company or a
technical institute (e.g., the Monterrey
Technological Institute has designed training
programs for capital goods manufacturing units
of the Alfa group).
1/ Up to now CENAPRO was located exclusively in Mexico City, but in 1981/82 two centers will be
opened in Torreon and Merida, another one is in construction in Irapuato and others are planned
in the states of Tabasco, Baja California and Tamaulipas.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
OPERATING REGULATIONS OF THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND
(FONEI)
I. OBJECTIVES
1.         Objectives.  The objectives of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
are:
(a) to promote the efficient production of industrial goods
and services;
(b) to ensure that the auxiliary lending institutions and
organizations (financial intermediaries) of the country
take the viability of investment projects into account
in their lending decisions.
II. GENERAL PROVISIONS
2.         Operations.  FONEI may undertake the following operations:
(a) to provide funds to the financial intermediaries for loans
that they grant for: (1) the acquisition of fixed assets;
(ii) the preparation of preinvestment studies, and (iii) the
adaptation, production, integration and development of
technology;
(b) to carry out financing operations related to those mentioned
in (a) above;
(c) to provide guarantees to protect the financial intermediaries
against the risks of default;
(d) to make grants to enterprises to assist technological
development.
3.         Currency.  The  lending operations of FONEI shall be denominated in
Mexican currency.
4.         Credit Limits.  The maximum amount of financing granted by FONEI for
each project or program shall be Mex$200 million. The Committee may make larger
loans for high-priority projects subject to ratification by the entity
establishing the trust.



- 61 -
5.         Maximum loan period.  FONEI shall establish the loan period and
other conditions of financing according to the nature of each project. The
maximum period shall be thirteen years, including a grace period of not more
than three years.
6.         Interest rate.  The annual net interest rate used in the various
FONEI programs shall be charged on unpaid balances and based on the average
percentage cost (CPP) of interest rate charges and if applicable, surcharges,
on borrowing operations in Mexican currency by the whole range of private
and mixed banking institutions, including loans by enterprises and individuals
term deposits (except savings accounts), and also, where applicable, bank gonds,
based on monthly estimates prepared by the Banco de Mexico. The CPP shall be
rounded off to the nearest one-tenth of one percent.
The initial rate applied shall be that in effect for the month
immediately preceding that of the contracting of the loan between the institution
and its borrower and shall be modified every quarter if necessary, even though
the amortization payments may be monthly or quarterly, as stipulated in the
prececing paragraph.
7.         Discount differential.  The discount in favor of the intermediary
institutions shall in all cases be 2% on unpaid balances. However, FONEI may
increase this differential in the following casest
(a) up to 0.5% when the intermediaries undertake the appraisal
of the projects, if the total assets before the project
investment in an existing enterprise, or estimated assets
in a new enterprise, are less than Mex$100 million, and by
up to 0.25% when the assets exceed this amount'
(b) by up to 0.25% annually after presentation to FONEI of the
supervision report or reports.
In both cases the intermediaries may carry out these tasks with their
own technical staff or through outside consultants, with FONEI's prior agreement
and in accordance with the terms of reference established by it.
8.         Guidelines for the intermediaries.  The lending institutions acting
as financial intermediary in loans made by FONEI shall be subject to the
following basic requirements:
(a) in programs where FONEI finances only the acquisition of
fixed assets, they must ensure that the borrowing enterprise
will have sufficient resources to meet its working capital
needs;
(b) the costs of appraising and supervising the project shall
not be passed on to the borrower;
(c) except for any subordinate portion of the discount, the
intermediary shall be obliged to service its debt punctually
and in full, regardless of whether it has received payment
from its borrower. In addition it shall immediately pay
to FONEI any sums received as advance repayment of principal.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
9.         Complementary financing.  In the financing of projects supported by
FONEI, other lending institutions, equipment suppliers, and in general any
other sources of funds, may participate in addition to the financial intermediary.
10.        Borrower's contributions.  The contribution of the final borrower shall
be made in the form of increases in capital stock, or through internal generation
of funds during the execution phase of the project in the case of established
enterprises.
11.        Commitment charge.  FONEI shall charge the financial intermediaries
a commitment fee of 1% per annum on the undisbursed balances in accordance
with the disbursement schedule approved by FONEI. The financial intermediaries
may in turn pass this charge on to the final borrowers.
12.        Rights of FONEI.  The contracts signed by FONEI with the financial
intermediaries, and those signed by the latter with the final borrowers, shall
stipulate that FONEI is at all times entitled, without prejudice to those
assisting the intermediaries, to obtain the information it considers necessary
regarding the execution of projects or programs, to inspect and supervise their
implementation and operation, and to require the final borrowers to submit
financial statements certified by external auditors.
13.        Coordination agreements.  FONEI may enter into coordination
agreements with other trust funds or entities in order to assist enterprises,
under the terms of its Operating Regulations.
14.        Portfolio limit. FONEI shall limit its loans to any one enterprise
to 5% of its total assets.
15.        Alternative sources.  FONEI shall not make loans for projects or
programs for which adequate alternative sources of financing are available.
III. EQUIPMENT FINANCING PROGRAM
16.        Objectives.  FONEI may finance:
(a) the equipping of new industrial plants or the expansion,
modernization or relocation of existing plants which
effectively promote national objectives for industrial
development, or whose products have reasonable prospects
of competing in foreign markets;
(b) the equipping, extension or modernization of enterprises
whose purpose is to provide services that generate or
save foreign exchange efficiently.
'Efficiency" is understood to mean that production costs enable the
products or services to compete now or in the foreseeable future, in terms of
quality and price, with identical or similar products from overseas.
17.        Use of resources.  FONEI resources in this program musr be used only
for the acquisition of machinery, equipment and installations, their assembly



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
and conditioning, the construction of premises to contain them, and pre-
operating costs.
18.        General guidelines.  In selecting projects for FONEI financing
under this program, the following factors among others shall be taken into
account: the priority of the activity, the generation or saving of foreign
exchange, industrial decentralization, regional development, employment
creation, value added, and the economic and financial rates of return.
19.        Credit shares.  With a minimum of Mex$4.5 million, FONEI shall
finance the acquisition of fixed assets in the following proportions:
(a) for projects whose purpose is the establishment of new
enterprises, up to 65% of fixed assets. The financial
intermediary shall provide funds equal to at least 15.4%
of the FONEI loan from its own resources and the final
borrower shall contribute at least 25% of the value of
said assets;
(b) in the case of projects for expansion, modernization or
relocation of existing plants, FONEI may finance up to
72% of the fixed assets under the project. The financial
intermediary shall provide funds equal to at least 11.1% of
the FONEI loan from its own resources, and the final
borrower shall contribute at least 20% of the value of
said assets.
(c) within the framework of its participation, FONEI may
subordinate its loan in relation to the financial
intermediary in a percentage not exceeding that of the
final borrower, in cases of high-priority projects for
enterprises with total assets not greater than Mex$100
million.
20.        Interest rate.   The net interest rate charged to the final borrower
shall be 2% above the CPP referred to in paragraph 6, except for the subordinated
part of the loan, where it shall be 2.5%.
However, these rates may be reduced by up to 0.25% in the light of
the costs of the preinvestment studies incurred by the enterprise for the
contracting of external consultants acceptable to FONEI.
IV. POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM
21.        Purpose of the program.  Through this program FONEI may provide
preferential loans to enterprises, especially those established in areas of high
industrial or population density, for the acquisition of pollution control
equipment, taking into account as far as possible the views of the competent
authorities.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
22.        Amount of assistance.   FONEI will finance up to 90% of the cost
of fixed assets and technical advice. The enterprise must contribute not
less than 10% of the investment.
23.        Interest rates.  The net interest rate charged by the financial
intermediaries to the final borrowers shall be the CPP indicated in paragraph 6.
V. TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
24.        Purposes of the program.  Through this program FONEI intends to
support research into and the development and adaptation of methods and
procedures for the efficient manufacturing of industrial products, and the
design, construction and testing of capital goods, including prototypes and
pilot plants.
25.        Use of funds.  The resources in this program will be used for such
purposes as: purchase of basic data and process engineering, salaries,
materials, equipment and services, training costs, etc., all-relating to
technological projects.
26.        Forms of assistance.  FONEI may give its support in the form of
loans and grants, separately or together, in such a way that the sum of both
does not exceed 80% of the enterprise;s annual program costs.
27.        Credit shares.  FONEI's support may account for up to 80% of the
entrepreneur's approved annual budget; the firm must in all cases provide a
minimum of 20% of said budget.
28.        Interest rate.  The net interest rate charged to the final borrower
shall be three percentage points less than that indicated in paragraph 6.
29.        Loan guarantee.  The guarantee for the loans granted by FONEI to the
financial intermediaries under this program shll not be greater than 90% of
the amount of each loan, including capital and regular interest.
The financial intermediary or, as the case may be, the entrepreneur
or party requesting the guarantee, shall pay to the trustee, in one single
payment, the equivalent of 0.5% of the principal of the loan on the date on
which the guarantee contract is signed.
30.        Exemption from loan repayment.  In the light of the features of each
case, the Technical Committee may exempt an enterprise from repayment of part
of or all of the loan if the results arenot positive, in which case it shall
decide the destination of the remaining assets and rights.
31.        Grant limit.  FONEI's contribution in the form of a grant shall not
exceed 30% of the entrepreneur's approved annual budget, within the allocation
approved annually by the Technical Committee for this section of the program.
32.        Criteria for grants. In making any grants, FONEI shall take into
account principally the degree of risk involved, the degree of innovation,
participation by a Mexican research institute or engineering firm, and the
relative size and economic capacity of the enterprise.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6
V. PREINVESTMENT STUDIES
33.        Purpose of the program.  To assist entrepreneurs in improving the
bases for their investment decisions and loan requests, FONEI may grant loans
for carrying out preinvestment studies when these relate to projects that are
potential candidates for financing by the Fund.
34.        Credit limits.  FONEI's financing can cover up to 80% of the cost of
the studies. The entrepreneur or promoter must contribute a minimum of 20%
of said costs.
35.        Consolidation.  If the preinvestment study leads to implementation
of a specific project, the loan shall be consolidated with that which FONEI may
decide to grant to the project.
36.        Loan guarantees.  FONEI may provide its guarantee to the financial
intermediaries under this program on the terms stated in paragraph 29.
37.        Interest rate.  The net interest rate charged by the financial
intermediaries on loans for preinvestment studies shall be 3% below that
referred to in paragraph 6.
/s/ Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Trustee of the Federal Government
for the Industrial Equipment Fund



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1:  Gross Domestic Product by Sector of Origin, 1965, 1970, 1975-80
(in current and constant 1972 prices)
Shares
1965         1970         1975         1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1965         1970         1975         1979
Values in Current Prices (billion pesos)
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing                  36.4         47.4         99.9        t28.6         176.6        223.5        277.7        na..          14.4          11.3         10.1         10.0
Mining                                           3.3          5.6         10.7          13.8         21.3         23.4         31.5        n.a.            1.3          1.3          1.1          1.1
Petroleum                                        9.1         13.3         31.3         37.4          64.1         83.1        132.4        n.a.           3.6           3.2          3.2          4.8
ttanufacturing                                  52.5         94.7        227.1        289.8         405.7        513.0        658.7        n.a.          20.8          22.6         23.0         23.8
Construction                                    10.1         21.4         63.3          78.1         99.1        134.6        186.6        n.a.           4.0           5.1          6.4          6.7
Electricity                                      3.4          6.2         11.2          14.9         23.6         25.4         32.6        n.a.            1.4          1.5          1.1          1.2
Commerce                                        76.3        124.1        288.2        334.5         447.7        573.4        744.4        n.a.          30.3         29.6          29.2         26.9
Transport & Communication                        7.3         11.1          29.0         36.2         53.0         68.9         87.8        n.a.            2.9          2.6          2.9          3.2
Government                                      13.7         26.0         85.1        118.2         154.2        188.2        245.8        n.a.           5.5           6.2          8.6          8.9
Other Services                                  39.9         68.9        142.4         176.4        229.4        289.5        369.5        n.a.           15.8         16.5         14.4         13.4
Gross Domestic Product                252.0        418.7        988.3      1,228.0       1,674.7      2,122.8      2,767.0        n.e.          100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Non-Oil GDP                       243.0        405.4        957.0      1,190.6      1,610.6       2,039.7      2,634.6        n.a.          96.4         96.8          96.8         95.2
Average Annual Growth Rates
Values in 1972 Prices (billion pesos)                                                                                                                    1965-70       1970-75       1975-80      1965-80
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing                  45.6         51.7         56.0          56.6         59.6         62.4         61.9         65.3          2.5           1.6          3T           2.4
Mining                                           4.7          5.6           6.6          6.8          6.9          7.0          7.3          7.8           3.6          3.3          3.4          3.4
Petroleum                                        8.4         13.2         18.9          20.9         24.3         27.8         32.1         37.6           9.5          7.4         14.7         10.5
Manufacturing                                   70.3        106.3         141.4        146.4        151.7        165.3        179.5        189.5           8.6          5.9          6.0          6.8
Construction                                    15.0         23.8         35.5          34.8         34.1         38.6         44.1         49.7          9.7           8.3          7.0          8.3
Electricity                                      3.2          6.2          9.3          10.0         10.9         11.8         12.8         13.7         14.1           8.4          8.1         10.2
Commerce                                        95.8        134.4        173.2        171.5         173.5        184.3        198.8        212.7           7.0          5.2          4.2          5.5
Transport & Communication                        8.4         12.3         19.8          20.8         22.1         24.5         26.8         28.7           7.9         10.0          7.7          8,5
Government                                      19.9         28.8         42.4         51.3          52.3         55.6         61.8         66.1           7.7          8.0          9.3          8.3
Other  Services                                 60.9         79.5         97.8          99.1        101.5        104.3        109.7        117.4           5.5          4.2          3.7          4.5
Gross Domestic Product                332.3        461.8        605.9         618.2        636.6        681.6        734.9        788.4           6.8          5.6          5.4          5.9
Non-Oil GDP                       323.9        448.6        587.0        597.3         612.3        653.7        702.8        750.8          6.7           5.5          5.0          5.8
Source: Bank of Mexico and World Bank staff estimates.
_



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:   Gross Value of Production and Value Added in Capital Goods Industries, 1970-1978 (Revised Series)
(Million Mex$ in Current Prices and Percentages)
1970            1971            1972             1973            1974             1975            1976               1977               1978
Gross Value of Production (Millions Mex$, curreiLt prices)
Total Manufacturing                                             274,137.6        300,369.0       339,721.9        417,486.2        566,465.7       666,451.1       811,924.2          1,096,507.4        1,363,023.6
Metal products                                                  8,968.5          7,790.8         9,835.3         11,645.5        16,718.5        20,798.0         25,401.2             32,875.1           43,046.1
Non-electrical machinery                                        5,460.1         5,949.7          6,995.8          9,265.3        12,541.6         16,609.8        20,546.2             27,799.2           37,505.8
Electric and electronic machinery                               6,740.5         6,697.0          3,355.2         10,326.0        13,937.9         16,487.0        21,485.0             29,064.3            37,000.3
Transport equipment (ships & railway) a/                         1,246.8         1,375.5         1,677.6          2,101.7         2,861.0          3,171.3         4,519.3              4,896.0             5,934.3
Sub-total                                      22,415.9        21,813.0        26,863.9          33,338.5        46,059.0        57,066.1         /1,951.7             94,634.6          123,486.5
Share of capital goods in total manufacturing  (%)                   8.2             7.3             7.9               8.0             8.1             8.6             8.9                  8.6                 9.1
Share in sub-sector total (%)
Metal products                                                  40.0             35.7            36.6             34.9             36.3            36.4            35.3                 34.7                34.9
Non-electric machinery                                          24.4             27.3            26.0             27.8             27.2            29.1            28.6                 29.4                30.4
Electric and electronic machinery                               30.1             30.7            31.1             31.0             30.3            28.9            29.9                 30.7                30.0
Transport equipment (ships & railway) a/                          5.6             6.3             6.2              6.3              6.2             5.6             6.3                  5.2                 4.8
Automotive industries (including buses & trucks)               14,395.4         16,402.0        19,377.0         25,845.7        34,565.3         40,139.0        41,575.3             56,719.2            89,143.9
Value Added (Millions Mex$ in current prices)
Total Manufacturing                                             105,203.0        118,057.1      134,723.4         164,014.9        215,717.0       256,701.0       316,210.2            440,812.0           550,571.9
Metal products                                                  4,088.0          3,927.6        4,428.8           5,345.9          7,506.7         9,365.5        12,039.3             15,748.8            20,108.9
Non-electric machinery                                          2,716.8         2,926.6         3,475.0            4,754.5        6,333.3          8,253.4        10,498.7             14,023.9            18,975.1
Electric and electronic machinery                               3,123.9         3,169.8         3,982.9           5,055.4         6,665.8          7,819.3        10,537.6             14,028.0            17,861.6
Transport equipment (ships & railway) a/                           684.7           742.2          890.3            1,098.3        1,464.7          1,556.3         2,215.6              2,527.4             3,062.2
Sub-total                                      10,613.4        10,766.2       12,777.0           16,254.1        21,970.5        26,994.5         35,291.2             46,328.1            60,007.8
Share of capital goods in total manufacturing  (%)                  10.1             9.1            9.5                9.9            10.2            10.5             11.2                 10.5               10.9
Share in sub-sector total (7.)
Metal products                                                   38.5            36.5           34.7              32.9             34.2            34.7            34.1                 34.0                33.5
Non-electric machinery                                          25.6             27.2           27.1              29.3             28.8            30.6            29.7                 30.3                31.6
Electric and electronic machinery                               29.4             29.4           31.2              31.1             30.3            29.0            29.9                 30.3                29.8
Transport equipment (ships & railway) a/                          6.5             6.9            7.0                6.8             6.7             5.8             6.3                  5.5                 5.9
Automotive industries                                           4,941.1          5,005.8        6,359.0            8,483.7       11,029.6         11,957.9        11,938.1             18,133.1            30,693.6
a/ Excludes buses and trucks.
Source:  Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto and Banco de Mexico, Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales de Mexico (Mexico, D.F.),January 1981.



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Manufacturing Sector and Capital Goods Industries Subsector, 1960-80
(Millions of 1970 Mex$)
Average Annual Growth Rates
1960         1970          1975          1976         1977          1978          1979          1980         1960-70       1970-75       1975-79
Total Manufacturing                                 44,901.0      105,203.0   148,057.7    155,517.2   161,037.3   176,398.3   192,626.9   203,799.3                    8,9          7.1           6.8
Metal products                                  1,574.1        4,088.0      5,105.9       5,296.5       5,114.6       5,572.6      6,280.0       6,845.5         10.0           4.5          5.3
Non-electric-machioe,y                            634.3        2,716.8      4,681.9       4,838.3       4,888.6       5,551.7      6,390.0  )                    15,7          11.5          8.1
Electric. & electric machinery                    776.5       3,123.9       4,477.9       4,952.1       5,214.1      5,879.3       6,377.7      15,050.9         14.9           7.5          9.2
Transport equipment (ships & railway) a/    447.8                684.7         957.5      1,'03.9         927.2         972.6      1,078.6  )                     4.3           6.9          3.0
Total capital goods                     3,432.7      10,613.4      15,223.3      16,190.8      16,144.5     17,976.2    20,126.3    21,896.4             11.9           7.5          7.2
1 2.
Index (1970=100) Total manufacturing               42.7          100           140.7        148.7         153.1         167.7        183.1         193.7
Capital goods            32.3          100          143.4         152.6         152.1        169.4         189.6         206.3
a/   Excluding buses and trucks.
Source:  1970-78 based on revised national accounts prepared by Secretaria de Programacion y Prssupuesto and Banco de Mexico, Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales de Mexico, (Mexico, D.F.),
January 1981.
1960 estimated on the basis of data from previous national accounts; 1979 and 1980 estimated on the basis of partial data trom production indices.
M l



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4:  Trends in and Structure of Gross Fixed Investment
1965, 1970, 1972, 1975-80
1965          1970            1972              1975           l179               1977            1978              1979             1980
In Current Mexican Pesos (billions)
Construction                                           23.0           44.6            54.9             129.0            154.5           198.6            283.8            407.8             583.0
Domestically produced capital goods                     9.1           19.6            22.8             47.4              57.2            74.2            106.1            149.2             200.0
Imported capital goods                                 10.9           16.2            18.1             41.7              52.7            62.5             81.6            137.1             190.0
Other                                                   1.2            1.8             2.1               3.6              3.2              3.8             4.5               4.0              6.6
Total                                   44.3          82.3             97.8            221.7             267.6           33.l           476.1             698.1             979.6
Share in GDP in percentages                              17.6           19.7            19.1              22.4             21.8             20.2            22.4              25.2             25.6
Composition in percent of total
Construction                                          52.0           54.2            56.1             58.2              57.7            58.6             59.6             58.4              59.5
Domestically-produced capital goods                   20.6          23.8             23.3             21.4              21.4            21.9             22.3             21.4              20.4
Imported capital goods                                24.7          19.7             18.5             18.8              19.7            18.4             17.1             19.6              19.4
other                                                  2.7            2.2             2.1               1.6              1.2              1.1             1.0               0.6              0.7
Total                                  100.0         100.0            100.0            100.0             100.0           100.0            100.0            100.0             100.0
In 1972 Mexican Pesos (billions)
Construction                                          29.8           47.9            54.9              71.2             69.7            68.3             77.4              88.3             99.7
Domestically produced capital goods                   10.4          20.3             22.8             32.7              32.2            30.6             37.0             43.4              49.3
Imported capital goods                                15.3          19.4             18.1             25.5              24.1            16.6             19.2             26.9              34.4
Other                                                  1.5            1.9             2.1               2.1              1.7              1.6             1.7               1.3              1.8
Total                                   57.0          89.5             97.8            131.5             127.7           117.1            135.3            159.9             185.2
Average annual growth rates (1972 prices) a/
Construction                                           -             10.0             7.5               9.2            - 2.1           - 2.0             13.3              14.1             12.8
Domestically produced capital goods                    -            14.3              6.0             12.8             - 1.5           - 4.9             20.7             17.5              13.6
Imported capital goods                                 -             5.2            - 3.0             12.3             - 5.5           -31.3             16.0             40.0              27.9
Other                                                  _              5.6             3.6               0.3            -18.9           - 3.8              7.3            -27.4              41.8
Total                                    -             9.5              4.9             10.4             - 2.9           - 8.3             15.5             18.2              15.8
a/  1970 - annual average for period 1965-1970;  1972 - annual aperage for period 1970-1972;  1975 - annual average for period 1972-1975.
Source:  Banco de Mexico and Bank staff, see Report No. 3605-ME, Mexico: Development Strategy - Prospects & Problems, August 31, 1981, Statistical Appendix Tables 2.10 - 2.14.



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Table5: Number of Enterprises of Capital Goods Sub-Sector
1960               1965                1970               1975                   Annual Rates of Growth
Number      %      Number      %       Number      %      Number    %       1960-65  1965-70  1970-75  1960-75
1. Total Manufacturing Ind.  100,335              124,935            118,997             118,643              4.5     -1.0      -0.1       1.1
2. Total Capital Goods           3,059  100.0       4,680   100.0      3,647   100.0       5,756  100.0       6.5     -4.9       9.6       3.5
-getal Products                 622   20.4         862    18.4        871    23.9       1,001   17.4      6.7       0.2       2.8       3.2
- Industrial Machinery        2,141   71.6       3,414    72.9      2,312    63.4       4,162   72.3      6.1      -7.5      12.5       3.3
- Electrical Machinery           99    3.2         221      4.7        275     7.5        426    7.4    17.4        4.5       9.1      10.2
- Transport Equipment           147    4.8         183      3.9        189     5.2        167    2.9       4.5      0.6      -2.4       0.9
3. Share of Capital Goods
Enterprises in Total
Manufacturing
Enterprises (X)                3.0                3.7                3.1                 4.9
SOURCE:  Elaborated from the 1960, 1965, 1970, and 1975 Industrial Census Data.
LCPI2                                                                                                                                           A
October 1980                                                                                                                                    I



MEXICO: CAPITAL COODS INTUSTRT1S T)FVET.OPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Employment in Manufacturing and Capital Goods Industries Subsector
Annual Rates of Growth
1960      %        1965       %        1970       %       1975      %      1960-65  1965-70  1970-75  1960-75
Number             Number              Number             Number
1. Total Manufacturing Ind.  791,440            1,323,274           1,520,817           1,654,381           10.8       2.8       1.7       5.0
2. Total Capital Goods          39,729  100.0       84,642  100.0    112,707  100.0    158,987  100.0   16.3           5.9       7.1       9.7
- Metal Products             14,276   36.0       22,686   26.8      30,616   27.2       32,528   20.5    9.7        6.2       1.2       5.6
- Industrial Machinery       12,731   32.0       35,343   41.8      45,213   40.1       76,375   48.0   22.7        5.0      11.1      12.7
- Electrical Machinery        6,454   16.2       17,213   20.3      21,328   18.9       24,904   15.7   21.7        4.4       3.1       9.4
- Transport Equipment         6,268   15.8        9,400   11.1      15,550   13.8       25,177   15.8    8.7       10.6      10.1       9.7
3. Share of Capital Goods
Industries in Total
Manufacturing Industries
Employment (x)                 5.0                 6.4                7.4                 9.6
SOURCE: Elaborated from the 1960, 1965, 1970, and 19745 Industrial Census Data.
LCPI2
October 1980



-72-                                                          ANNEX
MEXICO- CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPM frl 'FOJECT                          T-7
Tablo 7:  Value Added and Fixed Assets per Worker in Manufacturing Industry in 1975
(Thousands of 1975 Mex$)
Direct Labor
Value      Fixed        Coefficients
Added      Assets        (Workers per         Direct Capital-Output Coefficients
per        per         Million 1975            Fixed        Working       Total
Worker     Worker        Mex$ Value             Capital        Capital      Capital
Added)
Food                            74.7        72.7            13.4                  1.02         0.51          1.53
Beverages                      177.3       100.4             5.6                  0.63         0.27          0.90
Tobacco                        505.5        97.0             2.0                  0.19         0.39          0.58
Textiles                        84.4        91.3            11.8                  1.12         0.60          1.72
Wearing Apparel                 49.6        14.2            20.2                  0.28         0.59          0.87
Footwear                        54.2        26.8            18.5                  0.50         0.46          0.96
Wood and Cork Products          50.5        44.2            19.8                  0.89         0.34          1.23
Wood Furniture                  51.3        22.8            19.5                  0.45         0.34          0.79
Paper Products                 142.2       197.7              7.0                 1.88         0.56          2.44
Printing                        92.3        62.5            10.8                  0.69         0.29          0.98
Chemicals                      187.3       194.7             5.3                  1.12         0.52          1.64
Petrochemicals                 211.8       308.2             4.7                  1.50         0.43          1.93
Rubber Products                125.7        94.6             8.0                  0.82         0.32          1.14
Non-Metallic Minerals           97.8       148.0            10.2                  1.56         0.30          1.86
Basic Metal Industries         194.3       254.7             5.1                  1.35         0.54          1.89
Various Manufacturing           80.8        51.2            12.4                  0.67         0.52          1.19
Capital Goods:
Metal Products                87.5        57.4            11.4                  0.67         0.46          1.13
Industrial Machinery         114.4        60.8             8.7                  0.56         0.61          1.17
Electrical Machinery          99.6        40.6            10.0                  0.43         0.45          0.88
Transport Equipment          120.4       107.6             8.3                  0.94         0.93          1.87
Average Capital Goods        102.3        76.0             9.8                  0.78         0.64          1.42
Average Total Manufacturing
Industries                     107.7        94.2             9.3                  0.93         0.50          1.43
SOURCE: Elaborated from the 1975 Census Data.
LCPI2
October 1980



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: Selected Capital Goods Exports and Imports, 1978-1980
(millions of US$)
Exports                                               Imports
1978           1979            1980 a/               1978             1979            1980 a/
Total Merchandise Trade                                    6,063.1        8,798.2        15,307.5               7,713.8         11,985.6        18,572,2
Total Capital Goods                                      189.6          194.7           243.9               1,980.9         3,577.3         5,118.6
Of which
Agricultural Equipment                              8.3            8.9              8.7                 146.9           300.4           353.7
Railroad Equipment                                 29.2           34.8             0.4                   21.0            95.0           159.0
Other transport Equipment                         45.3           37.5            57.3                  248.9           538.7           744.3
Planes and parts                               5.0            9.2             9.6                   94.5           185.2           268.1
Trucks                                        28.5           23.6            30.2                   49.0           127.1           127.3
Boats and parts                                                                                     78.1           176.1           208.8
Industrial Equipment                              67.7           77.2           110.4                1.150.6         1,999.3         2,938.7
Pumps                                          2.5            3.8             6.7                  108.7           201.9           207.3
Hand-tools                                     9.6           12.8            15.6                   40.0            65.4            98.5
Typewriters                                   14.3           15.9            21.0
Textile machinery                                                                                  142.9           225.6           294.6
Rubber industry                                                                                     40.1            69.6            94.4
Temperature regulating equipment                                                                    60.1            73.9            73.4
Metal-working equipment                                                                            109.3           201.1           391.9
Data processing equipment                                                                           58.5           103.8           192.5
Loading and underloading equipment                                                                  54.0           102.2           184.3
Machinery for paper & carbon ind.                                                                   29.2            51.4            82.9
Soil perforation equipment                                                                          69.2           209.2           254.6
Industrial tractors                                                                                 89.3           133.2           126.4
Turbines                                                                                            34.8            71.3           132.8
Presses & crushing equipment                   3.4            9.5             7.4
Scientific Equipment                               3.5            3.9             8.6                  116.1           200.8           257.2
Electric & Electronic Equipment                   18.6           14.7            38.1                  217.4           328.3           497.9
Generators, transformers & motors              9.9            8.2            17.8                   68.4            92.6           114.0
Electronic communications machinery
and apparatus                               4.8            1.5             4.9                  49.0             48.4            59.5
a/ Preliminary estimates.
Source: Banco de Mexico                                                                                                                                  ;



-74-                                          ANNEX 7
T-9
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPI{INT PROJECT
Table 9    Finantcial Sector Summary Accounts
(Mex$ billion)
1977          1978          1979          1980
I. BANCO DE MEXICO
A.  Total Assets                              280.1         366.2         496.6          698.0
1.  Foreign Reserves                       33.7          45.9          67.3          93.0
2.  Credit (Total)                        246.4         320.3         329.3         605.0
-  To financial institutions          15.9           14.1          17.3          41.9
-  To public sector                  230.0         305.6         411.1          502.1
To private sector                      0.5            0.6           0.9           1.0
B.  Total Liabilities                         280.1         366.2         496.6         698.0
1.  Cufrency                              88.6          114.8         149.6         199.7
2.  Reserves                              191.5         251.4         347.0         498.3
II- PUBLIC SECTOR BANKS
A. Total Assets                                341.0         317.1          374.5         557.3
1. Net Credit to Financial
Institutions                          4.4           0.9        -  0.7        - 14.0
-  Gross Credit                        66.0           69.0          84.7         148.7
-  Liabilities                         61.6           68.1          86.4         162.7
2.  Credit to Public Sector                220.2         252.6         194.6         329.4
3.  Credit to Private Sector               116.4         143.6         180.6         241.9
B.  Total Liabilities                          341.0         397.1         374.5          557.3
1.  Private Sector                          67.5          62.2          83.1         119.1
2.  Net Foreign Liabilities                248.2         255.0         291.4         318.6
3.  Capital & Other                         45.3          79.9          67.6         119.6
III. PRIVATE AND MIXED BANKS
A.  Total Assets                               475.0         643.4         895.3        1.280.5
1. Net Credit to Financial
Institutions                        205.8         265.1         365.4          518.1
- Gross Credit                        239.6          293.0         401.5         573.4
- Liabilities                           33.8          27.9          36.1          55.3
2.  Credit to Public Sector                 12.3          29.5          42.5          56.2
3.  Credit to Private Sector               256.9         348.8         487.4         706.2
B.  Total Liabilities                          475.0         643.4          895.3      1,280.5
1.  Private Sector Monetary Assets         389.0         525.4         722.5         995.9
2.  Net Foreign Liabilities                 34.5          50.9         .72.1         139.1
3.  Capital & Other                         51.5          67.1         100.7         145.5
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico, Indicadores Economicos.
LCPI2
July 1981



-75-                                       ANNEX 7
T-10
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DFN7ELnPtKPMT'7KOJECT
Table 1o: Financial Agents' Share in Total_Financial Intermediation in 1980
Volume
Agent                        (Mex$ billion)    %    As % of GDP
1/.                             4
1.  Banking System -                             1,837.8       76.2       48.0
- Private and Mixed Banks 2/               1,280.5       53.1       33.5
- National Banks                             557.8       23.1       14.5
2.  Insurance and Guarantee Companies -/             73.5       3.0        1.9
- Insurance                                   69.7        2.9        1.8
- Guarantee                                    2.8        0.1        0.1
3.  Auxilary Credit Organizations 1                 17.7       0.7        0.5
- Credit Unions                               14.9        0.6        0.4
- Deposit Houses                               2.8        0.1        0.1
4.  Securities Market                              482.1       20.0       12.6
- Variable Return Securities (shares)         74.9        3.1        2.0
- Non-government Fixed Return Securities   25.7           1.1        0.6
- Treasury Certificates & government         381.5       15.8       10.0
bonds (includes P'etrobonos)
TOTAL                            2,411.1      100.0       63.0
1/ Total Assets
2/ Excludes foreign assets and includes interbank operations.
Source: Banco de Mexico, Annual peport and Bank estimates
LCPI2
July, 1981



-76-                                     ANNEX 7
T-11
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DFVF.L(YPM1NT PP RJCT
Table 11: Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability Indicators
(As Percentage of GDP)
1977      1978       1979       1980
1.  Total banking system liabilities        58.4       57.1       57.5      56.6
2. Non-monetary liabilities of the
banking system                        33.9       33.1      33.2       33.1
3. Non-monetary peso liabilities
of the banking system 1/              19.2       22.2      22.7       24.2
4.  Private sector's deposits 2/            23.2       24.7       26.1       26.0
5. Total banking system credit
outstanding                           31.8       30.8      34.7       34.3
6. Banking system credit to private
sector                                17.6       17.6       18.2      17.9
1/ All liabilities in local currency, except checking accounts and other demand
deposits.
2/ In private and mixed banks.
Source: Banco de Mexico, Annual Reports.
LCPI2
July 1981.



MEXICO; CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Mexicors Largest Banks
(Outstanding Balances as of December 31, 1980)
Assets                 Demand Deposits              Savings Deposits
(Mex$ Million)       %     (Mex$ Million)         %      (Mex$ Million)         %
Bancomer                                338,507.5      26.0         67,381.6        23.6          25,063.3        32.0
Banco Nacional de Mexico                303,886.5      23.4         62,001.5        21.7          22,998.8        28.7
Banca Serfin                            124,211.9       9.6         23,084.6         8.1           6,097.9         7.5
Multibanco Comermex                     119,049.7       9.2         25,956.0         9.1           5,589.9         7.0
Banca Somex                              88,398.7       6.8         15,071.4         5.3           2,548.6         3.1
Banco Internacional                      43,342.2       3.3         11,420.0         4.0             779.8         1.0
Banco del Atlantico                      29,816.8       2.3          8,447.3         3.0           1,087.8         1.4
Banpais                                  27,410.2       2.1          6,953.2         2.4             908.1         1.0
Banco BCH                                25,947,3       2.0          4,281.1         1.5             531.2         0.6
Multibanco Mercantil de Mexico           17,644.1       1.4          3,951.9         1.4              88.1         0.1
Banca Confia                             15,648.0       1.2          5,033.5         1.8             879.7         1.1
Banpacifico                               9,912.0       0.8          2,646.3         0.9             497.4         0.5
Other                                   155,627.0      11.9         49,497.6        17.2          12,886.4        16.0
TOTAL                               1,299,401.9    100.0         285,726.0       100.0          79,957.0       100.0
SOURCE: Comisitbn Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros, Negocios y Bancos and mission estimates.
LCPI2
July 1981
_ ._T



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 13: Liabilities of the Banking System By Instrument
1978                       1979                          1980!!
LIABILITIES                              Mex$ billion      %         Mex$ billion       x        Mex$ billion        x
Monetary                                     260.3          21.5          346.5         21.8          460.8          21.3
Non-Monetary                                 931.9          76.9        1,219.5         70.7        1,676.7          77.4
- Savings Instruments                      439.7         36.3          603.0          37.9          857.9          39.3
Liquid                                 141.4         11.7          703.9         12.8           284.8          13.2
Non-Liquid                             298.3         24.6          399.1         25.1           567.1          26.2
Up to 1 Year Maturity               86.4          7.1          158.3         10.0          291.5           13.5
1 Year                            153.1          12.6          158.2          9.9          182.5           8.4
More Than 1 Year                    58.8          4.9           82.6          5.2           93.1           4.3
- Other Liabilities                        492.2         40.6           616.5         38.8          824.8          38.1
Public Sector                           81.7          6.7          115.2           7.2          188.6           8.7
Private Sector                          14.5          1.2           31.0          1.9            48.1           2.2
Foreign Sector                         322.6         26.6          383.6         24.1           479.9          22.2
Other                                   73.4          6.1           86.7          5.6           108.2           5.0
CAPITAL                                        19.5          1.6           24.3          1.5           28.1           1.3
Liabilities in Domestic Currency           751.4         62.0           999.6         62.9        1,413.2          65.3
Liabilities in Fgreign Currency            460.3         38.0           590.7         37.1          752.4          34.7
Total Liabilities                        1,211.7        100.0        1,590.3         100.0        2,165.6         100.0
1/ Preliminary
Source: Banco de Mexico, Annual Reports
LCPI2
July 1981
19
_,



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 14: Institutional Structure of the Banking System
September 30, 1977              December 31, 1978                MaYrch 31, 1981
No. of          No. of         No. of           No. of         No. of           No. of
Institutions      Offices      Institutions       Offices      Institutions       Offices
Public Banks                                22             694             22              701             23              690
Private and Mixed Banks                    198           2,841            132            3,073             64            3,802
-  Multipurpose Banks                    14            1,245             26           2,324              35           3,602
-  Deposit Banks                         93            1,456             52              667             11              173
-  Financieras                           66               95             43               60              9               13
-  Mortgage Banks                        14               28              3                7              2                6
- Other Private Banks                    11               17              8               15              6                8     '
TOTAL                                     220            3,535            154            3,774             87            4,492
1/ Does not include Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Source: Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros.
LCPI2
July, 1981.



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 15 : Total Financing by Sector and by Type of Bank 1/
Financing by Institution        Amount    %         Am  1978                  1979          8Amount 
Banco de Mexico                                      286.7  100.0        350.9   100.0        481.6  100.0        658.6  100.0
To Public Sector                                   271.7   95.0       331.8    94.6         459.5   95.4        611.4   92.8
To Private Sector 2/                                 2.9    1.0          3.4     1.0          2.8    0.6          3.5    0.5
To Credit Institutions                              11.5    4.0       157.0      4.4         19.3    4.0         43.7    6.7
National Banks                                       334.2  100.0        370.5   100.0        458.9  100.0        605.2  100.0
To Public Sector                                   257.4   77.1       266.7    72.0         322.8   70.3        415.6   68.7
To Private Sector 2/                                72.0   21.5        82.6    25.0         123.0   26.8        171.5   28.3
To Credit Institutions                               4.6    1.4         11.2     3.0         13.1    2.9         18.1    3.0
Private and Mixed Banks                              288.1  100.0       401.3   100.0         555.8  100.0        788.5  100.0
To Public Sector                                    25.7    8.9         32.8     8.2         46.5    8.4         52.9    6.7      t
To Private Sector 2/                               242.7   84.2       348.8    86.9         487.4   87.7        706.2   89.6    x
To Credit Institutions                              19.7    6.9         19.7     4.9         21.9    3.9         29.4    3.7    0
Total Consolidated Financing 3/                      886.8  100.0    1,095.2   100.0        1,442.0  100.0    1,961.1  100.0
To Public Sector                                   569.2   64.2       650.4    59.4         828.8   57.5    1,079.9   55.1
To Private Sector                                  317.6   35.8       444.8    40.6         613.2   42.5        881.2   44.9
1/ Balances outstanding as of December 31.
2/ Including foreign private sector.
3/ Total by institutions does not equal the consolidated total because in the latter interbank operations are excluded.
Source: Banco de Mexico, Moneda y Banca.
LCPI2
July, 1981.



-8 1 -
ANNEX 7
T_lt6
MEXICQ: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRTFq , nM.TLnvw  n' J1""
Table 16; Banking System Credit By Sector,. 1977-80
(Outstanding Balances as of December 31)
1977                  1978                   19791/                 1980
Mex$ Million    %    Mex$ Million    %    Mex$ Million    %    Mex$ Million    %
1.  Primary                         69,962      13.1       92,203    14.1        120,705    12.6         192,334   14.7
Agriculture                     63,745      12.0       84,857    13.0        110,730    11.5         177,703   13.6
Mining                           3,286       0.5        3,881      0.6         5,167      0.6          8,320    0.6
Other                            2,921       0.5        3,472      0.5         4,808      0.5          6,311    0.5
2.  Industry                       195,204      36.7      255,413    39.1        335,674    34.9         447,323   34.1
Energy:                         19,730       3.7       37,566      5.8        70,851      7.4        108,826    8.3
- Petroleum                    2,842       0.5       11,928      1.9        18,662      1.9         32,530    2.5
- Electricity                 16,888       3.2       25,639      3.9        52,189      5.4        76,296    5.8
Manufacturing Industry:        136,499      25.6      169,219    25.9        207,908    21.6         268,040   20.4
- Manufacturing               92,020      17.3      111,087    17.0        143,873    15.0        177,209   13.5
- Non-metallic Minerals        4,009       0.8        5,225      0.8         6,421     0.7           9,455    0.7
- Steel and Other
Metallic Products         32,603       6.1      42,733      6.5        43,798      4.5         61,429    4.7
- Machinery and Equip-
ment                       7,867       1.4       10,174      1.6       13,826      1.4         19,446    1.5
Construction                    38,975       7.3       48,627      7.4        56,015      5.9         70,457    5.4
3.  Housing                          18,736      3.5       25,558      3.9        29,889      3.1         35,800    2.7
4.  Services                        84,295       15.8     103,905    15.9        216,196    22.5         282.765   21.5
Transport                       28,771       5.4       32,460      5.0        35,417      3.7         48,075    3.6
Communications                      96        -           191       -          2,508      0.3            299     -
Banking                         33,062       6.2       43,531      6.7        68,201      7.1        129,660    9.9
Other                           22,366       4.2       27,773      4.2       109,570    11.4         104,731    8.0
5.  Commerce                        68,478       12.9      94,951    14.5        140,867    14.6         210,552   16.1
6.  Government                      95,884       18.0      81,104    12.4        118,073    12.3         143,683   10.9
TOTAL                          532,549    100.0       653.184   }00.0        2fi1.Ai  100.0       1           1PC..
1/  Due to changes in definitions of sectors, introduced in June 1979, the 1979 figures are not consistent with
those of the previous two years, Indicadores Economicos.
SOURCE: Banco de Mexico,
LCPI2
July 1981



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 17: Geographical Distribution of Credit and Deposits
(Outstanding Balances as of December 31, 1980)
Total Banking                                                  Private and Mixed Banks
System Credit           National Bank Credit              Credit                  Deposits
State              Mex$ Billion       %       Mex$ Billion        %       Mex$ Billion       %    Mex$ Billion        %
Distrito Federal        677.1       53.5          386.8         68.3           290.3        41.6         484.1      47.2
Nuevo Leon                77.4       6.1            16.0          2.8           61.4         8.8          66.8       6.5
Jalisco                   54.5       4.3             8.7          1.5           45.8         6.6          69.6       6.8
Sinaloa                  45.8        3.6           25.0          4.4            20.8        3.0           20.5       2.0
Mexico                    42.3       3.3             8.6          1.5           33.7         4.8          10.1        1.0
Sonora                   41.5        3.3           16.8          3.0           24.7         3.6           28.7       2.8
Veracruz                 .39.4       3.1            17.6          3.1           21.7         4.1          38.6        3.8      1
Michoacan                 36.1       2.9            24.6          4.3           11.5         1.6          19.1        1.9      m
Coahuila                 32.2        2.5           15.3           2.7           16.9         2.4          27.4        2.7
Chihuahua                25.9        2.1            0.9          0.2            25.0        3.6          27.4        2.7
Tamaulipas                25.0       2.0            5.4           1.0           19.6         2.8           2.8        3.2
Guanajuato                23.0       1.8             3.8         0.7            19.2         2.7           2.7        2.5
Other States            144.8       11.5           37.2           6.5          107.7        15.4          15.4       17.0
TOTAL               1,265.0      100.0          566.7        100.0          698.3       100.0       1,026.6      100.0
SOURCE:  Banco de Mexico, Annual Report and Indicadores Economicos-
LCPI2
July 1981
--4



MEXICO  CAPITA7. GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tablie18:i  Slected Interest Rates in Mezico. USA, and London Interbank Rates
1979                                                             1980                                         1981
Gross   Net    Gross   Net    Gross   Net    Groas   Net          Gross   Net   Gross   Net    Gross  Net   Gross  Net    Gross   Net   Gross  Net
MEXICO
Time Deposits a/
1 day a week                       12.0      9.5   12.0      9.5   12.9    10.8   15.6    12.3    17.1    13.5  17.6    14.2   16.5   13.9  20.8   17.8   22.8    20.2  22.4   19.9
1 day a month                      13.9    11.0   13.9    11.0   14.6    11.5   18.7    14.8    21.9    17.3  22.0    19.5   19.9   17.3  23.9   21.4   27.1    24.6  26.8   24.3
Certificates of Deposits
2 months                           14.5    12.0   14.5    12.0   15.4    12.7   18.8    16.2    21.3    18.7  23.3    20.8   21.8   19.3  26.2'  23.7   29.2    26.7  29.0   26.5
12 months                          17.5    15.0   17.5    15.0   17.5    15.0   18.4    15.9    21.3    18.8  24.5    22.2   24.9   22.3  27.5   25.0   32.2    29.7  32.3   29.8
24 months or more                  18.5    16.0   18.5    16.0   18.5    16.0   19.4    16.9    22.4    19.8  26.6    23.5   27.0   23.8  30.0   26.1   33.7    29.9  33.3   30.8
CETES-/                            13.7            14.3             15.3            16.9             19.8            22.1            21.9           26.6           28.6            28.3
Average Active Interest Rate
Do _stic currency               20.6            20.9             21.2            22.6             24.1            27.5            28.4           30.9
Foreign currency                 25.6             15.9            15,5            19.7             21.9            20.4            17.1           21.5
Average cost of funds (ACF)       16.0            16.0            16.2            17.3              18.6           20.2            21.0           23.2           26.1            26.9
USA 
Certificates of Deposits-
3 months                            9.8             9.4             10.4            13.1             14.5            10.9             9.4           15.1           13.9            14.1
12 months                          10.7              9.8            10.1            12.0             13.1            10.2             9.7           13.8           13.7            13.9
LONDON
Eurodollar Deposits
"Call Money"                       10.2             10.3            11.0            13.1             14.4            11.9             9.7           16.0           14.6            15.3
3 Months                           10.9            10.6             11.6            14.6             16.1            12.7            10.7           16.4           15.4            15.5
12 months                          11.2             10.6            11.2            13.4              15.2           12.0            11.2           14.6            15.1           15.2
24 months                          10.2             9.8             10.2            12.0              13.8           11.5            11.1           13.7           14.6            14.3
Annual Inflation ate (CPi increases
for 12-month periods ending in thb
respective cuarter)  d!/          18.0            17.8            17.7             19.2             22.6            25.1            28.4           28.9           27.9
a/ Withdrawable on specific days.
b/ Mexican Treaury Certificat".
c/ US$100.000 Minimum
d/ Computed as ratio of the average CPT index for the thrbePionths coveted by the resystive qu&Wter*.
9'i



-84-                                     ANNEX 7
T- 9
MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 19: FOMEX's Financing for Capital Goods Industries
(Mrex8 million)
1978              1979               1980
Amount            Amount       x     Amount       %
EXPORTS                        1,689.7   77.8   2,220.2    62.2   2,325.6    16.4
Pre-exports                   542.8   25.0   1,327.6    36.4        864.1      6.1
Sales                       1,146.9   52.8      942.6    25.8   1,461.5    10.3
IMPORT SUBSTITUTION              418.2   19.2   1,167.2    32.0   2,879.0    20.3
Sale-Purchase                  65.1    3.0      213.4      5.8   8,943.2    63.9
PEMEX, CFE Invoice Receipts    -                    -       -    7,857.0    55.5
Other                          65.1    3.0      213.4      5.8   1,086.2       7.7
Total                  2,173.0  100.0   3,650.8   100.0  14 147.8   100.0
= L = ~
Source: FOMEX Annual Reports.
LCPI2
July 1981



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INWSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 20:  Types and Characteristics of NAFINSA'S Credit QperatiQnr
aName of the Credit                                     Concept                                  Purpose                 Subiect of Credit                        Requirements
Short-term Credits
1.  "Descuento"                               A credit operation providing the tender               Working capital               Industrial enternrises                  Establishment of a credit
the ownership of accepted credit titles,             financing requirements.    (complementary short-term                  line (revolving or non-
originating from sales/purchase of merchandise,                                    financing to ongoing long-term          revolving).
operations.)
2.  "Quirografario"                           Short-term  credit operation guaranteed               IT  ediate liquidity          Complementary working capital           Signoture of a promisory
by the signature of the debtor only,                 financing to cover un-        financing to ongoing operations         note and/or an indoree-
or with a required collateral,                       expected expenditures,        of well known clients.                  ment; in case of collateral,
a "provisional credit."                                               a formalization letter spe-
cifying that 80X of the
credit recovery will be used
for c-pital repayment, the
remaining 20 for interest
3.  "Prendario"                               A credit operation documented by a                    Working capital financing. Well known clients from the                repyment
promisory note (for which pawn exists).                                            agricultural, industrial and            Signature or a promisory
commercial sectors.                     n.te and/or sn indoreement.
4.  "Directo"                                  Short-term credit upto 180 days,                     Working capital financing. Federal government decentralized           Personal guarantee andf
renewable one time,                                                                agencies, parastatal enterprises,    or real collateral.
federal trust funds, etc.                                               X
5.  "Credito en Cuenta Corriente"                                                                   Working capital financing. Federal government decentralized           Personal guarantee or and/
agencies, parastatal enterprises,    or real collateral.
federal trust fund, etc.
Medium- and Long-Term Credits
6.  "Habilitacion o Avio"                      Medium-term operation initiated by                   Purchase of newumateriala, Industrial sector clients.                R19  materials and other
an opening credit contract, specifying               intermediate goods, pay-                                              purchased goods serve as
the conditions of approval.                          ment of wages and salaries,                                           collateral and have to be
etc.                                                                  insured against possible
risks.
7.  "Simple"                                  Long-term  operations; all other                      See 4 or 5                    See 4 or 5-                             See 4 or 5.
characteristics similar to those of
"Credito Directo" or "Credito en
Quenta Corriente."
8.  "Refaccionario"                            Long-term operations for fixed assets                Purchase of land, purchase Industrial sector clients.                 Lots, construction,
financing, accompanied by a contract                 and installation of machi-                                            buildings, machinery and
specifying its objectives, duration of               nery and civil works,                                                 output of the production
credit, goods included in the guarantee, etc.    covering of export costs,                                                 process serve as a collateral
expansion and adaptation                                              and have to be insured against
of industrial plants, etc.                                            various kinds of possible
risks.
9.  "hedocumentacion"                          The operation of extension of any kind
of medium- and long-term credit.
Source: NAFINSA's Operational Manual.
LCPI2, June 1981.



-86 -                                     ANNEX
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVF.T.nPMFNT PRn.TFCT T-21
T-21:  NAFINSA's Domestic Currency Interest Rates to
Final Borrowers-in Effect Since May 1981
Sector                                                Interest Rate
A.  General (Manufar-turing)
- Public Sector (Federal Government,                       ACF plus 2.5
Ministries, State Governments, Trust
Funds, Decentralized Organisms,
Enterprises with majority state
participation),
- Enterprises with minority state participation            ACF plus 3.0
- Private Sector
Priority activity
Zone I                                              ACF plus 3.5
Zone II                                             ACF plus 3.5
Zone III and rest of the country                    ACF plus 4.25
Non-priority Activity
Zone I                                              ACF plus 4.25
Zone II                                             ACF plus 4.75
Zone III and rest of the country                    ACF plus 5.5
B.   Mexican Food System (SAM)
- Public sector                                            ACF plus 1.75
- Enterprises with minority state participation            ACF plus 2.25
- Private sector                                           ACF plus 3.0
C.   Tourism
- Public sector                                            ACF plus 2.5
- Enterprises with minority state participation            ACF plus 3.0
- Private sector
Priority "A"                                          ACF plus 3.5
Priority "B"                                          ACF plus 4.25
Source: Nacional Financiera, S.A.
LCPI2, June 1981
d9



ANNEX 7
- 87 -                                     T-22
MEXICQ;  CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PIjE,
Table 22: NAFINSA - Total Credit Approvals by Sector
(Mex$ million)
1978               1979                 1980
Amount      %       Amount      X       Amount      %
Infrastructure            7,827     21.5      10,921    18.7      16,498    23.0
Industry                 17,720     48.5      46,036    78.8      48,775    67.9
-  Basic Industries      11,145      30.5     34,176    58.5      33,975    47.3
O Other Manufacturing   6,574        18.0     11,859    20.3      14,800    20.6
(Capital Goods 1/   2,725       7.5      6,083    10.4        5,466     7.6
Other Activities         11,016      30.0      1,454      2.5      6,595      9.1
Total                    36,562    100.0      58,411   100.0      71,868   100.0
1/ Numbers in parentheses refer to credit for capital goods industries approved
by NAFINSA's head office.
SOURCE: Nacional Financiera, S.A.
LCPI2
July 1981



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 23: NAFINSA's Approvals of Credits to Capital Goods Industries,
by Type of Credit 1/
(Mex$ million
1977                     1978                     1979                     1980                      Total 1977-80
No. of                   No. of                   No. of                   No. of                    No. of
Credits      Amount      Credits      Amount      Credits      Amount      Credits       Amount      Credits    %        Amount   X
Short-term Credits 2/
1. Directo                             6          1,248        14         1,323          10           577         8           1,113        38        35      4,261    23
2. Aval (guarantees)                   9          1,264         5         1,200           4         2,714         5           1,834        23        21      7,012    38
3. Descuento                           -            -           2             10          1           400         -             -           3         3        410      2
4. Other                               8            119         1             65          6           680         3              40        18        16        904      5      1
Sub-total                       23          2,631        22         2,598         21         4,371        16            2,987        82        75    12,587    69      x
Medium- and Long-term Credits 2/
5. Habilitacion o Avio (for workiig 1               184         5            108          3         1,692         3             878        12        11      2,862    16
6. Simple                  capital)                                                       1            20         3           1,218         4        11      1,238      7
7. Refaccionario  (for fixed)          4          1.129         4            19           -           _           4             383        12         3      1.531      8
Sub-total                        5          1,313         9           127          4         1,712        10            2,479        28        25     5,631    31
TOTAL                      28          3.944        31         2.725          25         6,083        26           5,466       110       100    18,218   100
1/ Includes only credits approved by NAPINSA's head office.
2/ See Annex 7, T-20 for definitions of the different types of NAFINSA's credits,
Source: Nacional Financiera, S.A.
LCP12
June 1981



=EXICO: CAPITAL GOODS IIDUSTRIES DEVELOP.MENT PROJECT
Table 24:  NAFINSA - Credit Approvals to Capital Goods Industries
by Type of AcLivity, 1977-80 I/
(Mex$ million)
1977                1978               1979              1980                  1977-80
Subsector                    No. of             No. of              No. of             No. of             No. of
Credits  Amount   Credits  Amount   Credits  Amount   Credits  Amount  Credits  %  Amount   %
Metallic products              2         50         -       -          1       70          4        98      7      6.4    218   1.2
Non-electrical machinery       4        118        14      312        11      415         10       451     39    35.4  1,296   7.1
Electrical and electronic
equipment                    1         25         3       55         4       58     -   3        71      11    10.0    209   1.2
Transport equipment           21      3,751         9    2,325         7   5,500           6    4,746      43    39.1 16,322  89.8
Measurement equipment         -          -          5        32        2       40          3        57     10      9.1    129   0.7
cOD
Total            28      3,944        31    2,724        25   6,083          26    5,423    110   100.0 18,174 100.0
1/ Includes only credits approved by NAFINSA's head office.
SOURCE: Nacional Financiera, S.A.
LCPI2
July 1981
9!



MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 25: Banco Mexicano SOMEX -- Credit Approvals to Capital Goods Industries
(Mex$ million)
1978                  1979                  1980                  1981 1/   -                   1978-81
No. of                 No. of                No. of                 No. of                 No. of
Credits    Amount    Credits    Amount    Credits    Amount    Credits    Amount    Credits    %              Amount       Z
Metallic Products                          -          -           3         343.0        5         951.0        -          -           8       44.5   1,294.0    52.7
Non-electrical Machinery                   1        113.0         1          45.0        3         230.0        1        200.0         6       33.3      588.0    23.9
Electric and Electric Equipment            1        135.0         -            -         -            -         1         75.0         2       11.1      210.0      8.5
Transport Equipment                        -          -           -            -         2         365.0        -          -           2       11.1      365.0    14.9
TOTAL                                   2        248.0         4         388.0       10       1,546.0        2        275.0        18      100.0   2,457.0   100.0
1/ Projects approved as of mid-June, 1981.
Source: Banco Mexicano SOMEX and Bank estimates.
LCPI2
July 1981.



- 91-                                                              ANNEX 7
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 26; Analysis of Chagacteriatics Qf FONE)Ts LQan Approvals
197d-80
(a)  By Program
1978                            1979                               1980
I No. of   Millions               No. of     Millions               Fa. or'   Ilillions         -
Projecta    o                     Proiects    of pesos       I      Projects    of pesos
General  Equipment   55                 2 284 2       99.8      57         3 004.5      94.1       66        4  98. 1     98.9
(a) \;ew projects                                                                             'I 57T  3T   z   3T  T7
(b) Expansion              31         908.6       39.1       34         1,911.1     59.8       45         3.334.6      71.7
Pollutiotn control             -             -          -        I           100.0       3.1        4           43.3       0.9
Technology'developeent         2            2.0        0.1       5            88.7       2.8       3             4.6       0.1
Preinv.stment studies          4            2.2        0.1       3             0.7       _         7             2.7       0.1
Total                      61        2,288.4     100.0       66         31193.9    100.0       SO         4,648.7    100.0
leorcns troll's 197i, 1980 Anual lports.
(b) By Term
1978                             1979                                1980
No. of     Millions               No. of     Millions                No. of     millions
Projects    of peso.       I      Projects    of pesos       2       Projects    of pesos    S
Up to 4 years                21          403.4       17.6      10         241.3        7.6        8          128.3      2.8
Over 4 to 7,ycers            31        1,385.7      60.6       45       3,319.9       72.6       50        2,514.9    54.1
Over 7 to 10 years            6          343.3       15.0      10         538.3       16.8       20        1,815.5    39.0
Here than 10 y.aro            I          856.0        6.8       1          94.4        3.0        2          190.0      4.1
Total                     61         ,           100.0      66                   100.0        80        4          100.0
Sowen. POMZU's 1979. 1980 Anual Resports.
(c)  By Category
197il                           19*9                    M   o        1-
-'Ro. 1.    nilsi.one             Nu, of     Millions               No. of     X!Aliome
Pro;ects    of pesos       7      Pro;ecta    of nos         I      Projects    oG 2e so_.
rndustrfal Prlortitfe il.                                                              94        5         1~733.
Prioriy I                23          780.29     31.1       29                0     3.4
-  Agroindustry.          3           53.1     'TT3        -4            134.1       4 .2    -I           11.1.2          2.4
Capital gooda         19         711.6       31.1       21            922.8     26.9      24         1,351.2          29.1
Stratesic inputs        1.         16.2        0.7       4            201.5       6.3       9          364.9           7.0
Priority 2               35       1,446.8       63.2       33          1,745.2     54.6      36         2.2S2.4          49.1
- Noo-durablth
con-eoro   ...    12          536.0       23.4        5           315.2       9.9       3            19.2           0.4
- Dursbl,h consuo.er
gooes             3          29.6        1.3       12           691.4      21.6      11          e01.4          17.2
-  ILtero.Oiate goods   20           081.2      38.5       1o            738.6      33.1     22         1,471.8          31.7
Prontiar De,elopLeot         3           60.7       2.7        4            189.7       6.0      5           316.6           6.S
Other Ca teA-niea.                                         -                                     4       _ 22 4              4.t:
Total                    61        2,288.4      10.0  0 6             3,193.9      0.0                 4687            1-.o
bSerne  POIU'a- 1979, 1980 Annual Reports.
(d)  By Zone
1979                                    98
ITo. of      Millions                   No. of       lillions
_   _  Pro1ects  of oesos       7.      Projects       of pesos         I
Zone  1                                                                      21          1,325.4        41.5         35          2 097.4        45.1
A.   Industzial Ports                        .                                             90.0        2.8          4            424.2         9.1
B.  Urban Industrial Centers                                              19           1,235.4        38.7        31           1,673.2        36.0
Zone II
State Priorities                                                           6             162.1         5.1        13             848.6        18.3
zone Ill                                                                     21             8t0),7      25.2          t             499. 1       10.7
A.  Areas of Controlled Growth                                             14            453.3        14.2          3             105.1        2.2
B.   Areas of Consolidation                                                 7            351.4        11.0          a            394.0         8.5
Reet of Country                                                              18             9C0.9       78.2         21           1 .203.        25.9
Total                                                                    66      1     93.9  , 00.0              80            10 9            .0
SoulCre   FON3I's 1979, 1980 Annuel Reports.



-92-                                                                   ANNEX 7
T-27
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 27:  Pipeline-of Subprojects Presented to FONEI
for Financing as of June 30, 1981
(Mex$ million)
Fjnterm.
M C. W.                a.h.*7Ma.                                                                                                                 3  C.a,la C.-P.)       Its.6 U.r
7~S.40   MTLC             :.1        34.. ^.34-z|1 ,II.a           2_.      1    30       0J 4 .8      40.0          *      J       3.          ear  0...*-
ZSWJUMZAL. S. .
I0R0. S. *a.4  eal _.                                                              .      OVA           9            0.3           2S.7         0tt1.  S_I             lb.       -
_nte  .pe -
"OM-~L.
433*11. 1. &-           ett          ...l.....gtl5.                              40.      11.3          MA           LI              0.A                               D.4t410  b  1-witbty.
3053330                   .u    --la                                                                                                                                  eS.4  .-*W111 S
8. 4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
CUM Up Lt s.                                   r30                                         *           120.0        14.?             ".1 _
S. A. me C. V.          r*t
-    *$1~.m                   *teit       *t.el .1..'.., 4.....          *       a      .       *            MA           3.0             14.0       1____1aU.L             lb. tSO  btltty
S.                                                                                                                                         e.            _         WF a.P UI4*  Siag  t   Ya a 4_a
HJW4 &C 04234           -.U1         *ri2tt.n vltolac              *              00                     .                          I.M.        0 0 I     tt.* K   C..
6018035 I unI3c4    .L..t,.-I .1    .i.u .  _re. _4                 * U            .5      *              ?.8                        3 fn
I Is "S. C3. A..       p1d.t &. -I.4.                                                                   .
Wb.  1g  rlU           --I         _    ts*sr*r_                                 f                   UA             3.3            3i . 
C. W.
8eC                     eil          *-3tub.                                    I Na       *           sWJ          15.             37P 3
LAN CLAM                *tf4                                                                                                        35.1          .. _f'wt..
GMSrS?IU  30 4      an ,             b.7.. f1. . 41                *              1.4      *S                        LI              4'         i  tba *
mXuWnIL _,L. S. A.     '              -M- *
211 I USTb.S.                                      _e, s  _         *    I        .8                     *4
S.Ai u0ena 81           _.da           _r
SA.
9051818 ]PA"            --I                P.   E.  l.l.                         2.        *              .                          W. 32 
30*   8.A.              .01          51.pite1 Ya.4                  -           11.        *w           Ni            8*       a      2.         4134.  .3
*aina. 8. A.            -=           VWl                                                                  A .     .31  L.z          .1       _e
l u'
-%17-9. 1003



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 1:  Organization Structure of NAFINSA
DIRECTOR GENERAL|
LIC. JORGE ESP INOSA DE LOS REYES|
SUB-DIRECTOR GENERAL                                       SUB-DIRECTOR FOR                            SUB-DIRECTOR GENERAL FINANCE
INDUSTRIAL PROOMTION                                    AFFILIATE ENTERPRISES                           LIC. ALFONSO GARCIA MACIAS
LIC. CRISTOBAL LARA, BFAUTILL                                 AND TRUST FUNDS                                           r       ',
LIC. JORGE TAMAYO,                                                _          
PROGRAMMING         PROJECT PROMOTION           ENTERPRISE CONTROL                                  DEPARTMENT          TRANSACTIONS ASCURITIES DEPT.
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT                     TRUST FUNDS        DEPARTMENT                                 DIECTOR:
DIRECTOR :            DIRECTOR:                    DIRECTOR:                   ADMINISTRATION       DIRCTOR;             DBEPCTOR:          LIC.      O
LIC. HECTOR            LIC. RAMON                 LIC. BENITO REYTI.CRO                                                     IECO:LC   GAI
ARAIGUA HICT0RAES    CARLC. TORRESLIC.BINITORILLA DE                                                                  C. K. FRANCISCO       ALCALA DE LEON
ARANGUA MDRALFS   CARLOS TORRES    l   ROMAY                            ,   ~~~~~~LA GARZA     SUAREZ DAVILA



MEXICO: CAPtTAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 2;  Organization Structure of NAFINSA's Credit Department
IDIRECTOR:
S  LIC. CARIOS SORILLA
|DE IA GARZA
CRKOIT ANALYSIS                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CREDIT OPERATIONS
CDIVISIS                                                                                CENUAL DtVISION
CHIEF:                                                                           C. PG FUSTAVO  R     TUBIO
ING. GUSTAVO LCKBERA 
D   A                                    FORMLLIZATION,                    PUB~~~~~~~~AD  ECZTN LICE SECTO SPRIVCEAIT ADMJOIYSATE-         MNDPIAT
INORTIOOERTIEF C|s                                   EAN S                         O B  OPERATIONS  AND
ANDINC. JULIO                                          SAWC RDIVISION        OIF:             SUDIS.
SUB-DIVISION          Sen           CHIEFa  2 Seno  T
I Senior Analys1t  Senior Analyst                                  LIC.  .USTAVO
5 Analyoto                                   5 Analysts             HERNANDEZ                                                             T          A
10 Technical                                                                                   T         Asats
ALCPI2,ts JupAn1STATAL F9E8AL CDEVELOP9T FUNDS9S
AND DRECTRALIZED      AND STATE SSClaTARIATS       AND MAJORITY STATE-      OWNED, PRIVATII
ORGANISMS SUB-DIV.         SUB-DIVISION           M'NED) ENTERPRISES        SNTIRPRISUS, B
CHIUEF:                 CBIUF                    SUB-DIVISION       SPECIAL OPlRTv-IONS
ORANDO CANO           MN. JULIO SAM                    CHIEF:             SUB-DIVISION
2 Senior Technicians*   2 Senior Technicians      - . P  WONIO BIDL        LIC. UXRUCZgA,
13 Technical Aust..   13 Technical Aunts.        2 Senior Tachnician
14 Techn1c&l Assat     Z Senior Technicians
LCPI2, June 1981



MEXICO - CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 3: Organization Structure of Organizaci6n SOMEX
BOARD
|   Presidentl
Dr. Mario Ramon Beteta
Executive Vice-President                       Executive Vice-President            Executive Vice-President
of Banking Wing                                of Industry Wing                        of Services Wing
(Banca SOMEX)                                         (FISOMEX)
Lic. Luis Chico Pardo                            Lic. Donaciano Tames
Corporate Staff npnvrtments           Legal
(Finance & Administration)            Trust
Administrative
International
Other Corporate Directorates                  Corporate Director,               Corporate Director,
(Tourism, Chemicals, Consumer                               AoAutomobiles -& Auto Parts  Development   -
Durables, Construction, etc.)                                                   .
Petrocemicals         Capital GGOd
co



- IO-CAPITAL GOODS IMDUSTIIES DVVi,OPTENT PROJECT
Ch-rt 4:  Organtoaion Structure of FIS70EX'. Capitl Goods Ind-1 trise DepOrtnnnt
LCRCARDO GONZALEZ      
MECHNICA                                                                                                       IIMNS                                                                           O       N
|   MANIIFAC'TURING          0          119        ||        EDVIIH                         CIISO           ||N   MARIEF ALANNING      HICA- RESOURCES DIVISION |
DIVISI                                                                                             MARIO APERDINI                                                 CHIEF:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIDIIIc4St-DVSII
CHIEF:                                                      VACANT
ING. ALVAREZ CANTU                                                                                                                                                                                                     VCN
I Coordinzter 
|                ~~~~2 Assist-to
SIN/ICD  PLNNIG      | PLANNING SUB-DIV.    |          T|IIGHNICAL SUB-DIV                     S  RIHN REs -S        PULI   RELATION
UB RATIONS  F   -CTS  SUB-DIV.                                 ~~~~~~~~~AUDITOR                                                                                                        SU--I.O SDB-DIVISIONN
I       CoordFltoI                                                                                                                                  7 Alyt                       6 Ansly.t.                     2 Analy.t.
2 SpIrloliote                 1 Market Speci-list
(Inventory &
Control).
LCPI2
July 1981



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 5: Organization St7uctore of Credit Sub-Directorate of BEnco Mexicano-SOMEX
SUB -DISECTOR
CROAECEIT.]
LIC. JAINE RUIZ
IGOVERNETSCO                     TOURISM SECTOR                                                                 T | PIAESCO|-|CRDTPERATION   |                  IT ANALYSIS|
OWNED ENORTE  STAE             CHIEF DIR. CESAR              CHIEF                                             CHIVISIO                                SUPERVISION DIVISION
DIVIEF                                             ANOIOLRE                                           JOSE CARMON                                      C'dIEF:
VACANT                  5 Accour.t l'.-ager3             lMIL                                                                                              l
4 Account M.angers
SUB-DIVISR  SUE-DIVSION         CREDT OPERATION            CREDIT RECOVERY        CEI  NLSS             CEI  (TO
A aon  ManAgeD AGMINISTRATION                                           c SUB-DVISION            SIR-DITVANAUY       LD-IVs
Accou t  M anag rs  5  A count  M nagersPU B-DIVsional        13   P rofessionals  8   C redit   A nalysts  8  C redit   Supervisor s   .
LCPI2
July, 1981



MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 6: Organization Structure of FONEI
Technical Committee
Director
|  romot ons  |Technical Spca                                                                                                        Operations|
| Subdirector    || Subdirector    r                                              Projects        |                                   Subdirector 
Promoters          Regional                 Chief of                          Chief of                             Chief of                                        Chief of
Promoters     | | Representatives              Appraisal                        Supervision                          Operations                                      Accounting
Pro,~ects                                                                                      Financial               ortfolio
|    Appraisal    1   r = t  CSupervision                              Contracts               Credit               Information &              Control
|  Officers            C l  ontfiroflc      Officers                  Officer                Officer              Analysis Officer           Officer
Assistant              Records
Administrator            Recrd
World Bank - 20307
- fE'



_ 99 -
ANNEX 9
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative Listing of Items to be Included in the Proposed Information
Dissemination System and Training Programs
A. Information Dissemination System
The proposed, information dissemination system would
consolidate the available subsectoral information on current and projected
installed capacities, available technologies, domestic and international
markets for capital Roods and their components, supply-demand characteristics.
etc. Possible items and sources of information for the system include
the proposed special survey of installed capacities (para. 4.08); SEPAFIN's registry
which contains information provided by capital goods producing industries on
planned new investments in connection with applications for authorization of
fiscal incentives and subscription to a 'development program' (including
information on existing and planned capacities, characteristics of the
technologies, production characteristics and plant locations); demand
information available from the public sector entities and the 'Comisiones
Mixtas' (para. 1.36); information available with the chambers of industry
on supply and demand characteristics; special sectoral studies such as those
carried out by COCOFIN (e.g., information from survey of training facilities,
para. 4.06), NAFINSA, and INFOTEC (e.g., the 'technology gap' study referred
to in para. 4.07); information from the principal financing institutions
(NAFINSA, FONEI, FOMEX, FOGAIN, Organizacion SOMEX, etc.) on capital goods
projects by them. The relevant information from each of the above sources
would be gathered, validated, systematized and made available in an appropriate
format to all interested producer and user industries.
B. Training Programs
Two types of training programs are expected to be formulated and implemented.
Firstly, a formal training program could be undertaken to bolster the capacity
of the technical staff of the principal implementing agencies for preparing,
promoting; and/or evaluating capital goods development projects. The training
program would focus on the areas of technology assessment, technology
absorption possibilities, design of technology transfer agreements, and
formulation of complex financing packages involving several parties and foreign
companies (para. 1.42). Secondly, more detailed seminars or 'mini-courses' for
specialized technical and financial staff of industries and financial staff
of industries and the principal financing agencies would be designed and
offered on specific topics of relevance to capital goods industries, such as
(i) identification of capital goods product categories which match the technical
capabilities and comparative advantage of Mexico; (ii) factors affecting
achievement of good technology absorption and technology mastery; (iii) criteria
and intricacies of evaluating technology transfer/partnership agreements;
(iv) importance of ensuring adequate quality control and reliable delivery
schedules in supplying components to capital goods industries and ways to
help subcontractors achieve them; (v) relevance of standardization and precision
of machine tools in assuring adequate quality of capital goods and their components;
(vi) ways to make best use of horizontal linkages and specialization among capital
goods manufacturing enterprises; and (vii) methods of assessing the economic
value of used vs. new machinery taking into account the long run implications
to the production process, cost and quality.



- 100-
ANNEX 10
MEXICO: CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. On the manufacturing sector and financial system
1.  Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (1979-82), issued by
the Secretarla de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial (SEPAFIN), 1979.
2.  Mexico: Una Estrategia para Desarrollar la Industria de Bienes de
Capital (9 volumes), NAFINSA-UNIDO Special Project, published by
NAFINSA, 1977-80.
3.  Indicadores Economicos, Various issues, published monthly by Banco de
Mexico
4.  Informe Anual, 1977-81, Annual Reportsof Banco de Mexico.
5.  Informacion Economica, Various issues, published by Banco de Mexico.
6.  El Mercado de Valores, Various issues, published by NAFINSA.
7.  Mexico: Financial System, Report by F. Veneroso (Consultant),
September 1978.
B. On Implementing Agencies
1.  Annual Reportsof NAFINSA, 'Banco Mexicano-SOMEX, FONEI and ?OMEX,
1978-80.
C. On the Project
1.  Capital Goods Information Dissemination System and Capital Goods Program
Technological Information System, Elsa Vergara (Consultant), August 1981.
2.  Proposed Capital Goods Industries Development Credit Project--Views on
Selected Issues - Report including observations on technical issues,
training needs and subcontracting, by Oscar Gonzalez, UN,DO--World Bank
Cooperative Programme.
3.  Report on World Bank Mission to Mexico, Consuitant's Report on issues of
technology transfer and technical deficiencies affecting Mexican capital
goods Industries by Nuno Figueiredo (Consultant), July 31, 1981.
4.  Miscellaneous Sectoral Supply-Demand and Structural Issues, Report by
Sat Goel (Consultant), October 1980.
5.  Program Operating Regulations (approved by the Mexican authorities in
April 1982).
6.  Project Execution Paper (approved by the Mexican authorities in April 1982).



IBRD 15553-
iio                                                                           too-                                                                             99w                              JANUARY 1981
UNITIFD    STATES    OB    AMERICA
'4Ng'lN a
CAL~~~~~a
N            oa-
Strain ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    I       
BAJA 00    -$                            - 'Ciut .    .s;                                 . adX                                                                                       M  E X I C  O
CAIPRNA                                Neolj7                               Jodrat 'X                    S       '_'-<e;                                                                                        P  .P  >^sorm
NORTE        -o                                                                                                                                                           Ki\  ,   .  T \X   /9 rA     / PAS
'C   N/Htan U  AN   UASNI I    FO/+ 
'Z>2 AJA                             A0   P  A                  -                                    0 1 L A                                                                                          -           t-'
Ti                                                     rJD2Ag 7                        <I~                                                    .              MEXICO - {St
y  C/abc9lYE^TO ttt                       A t   d  itt                  2t <8  <-t!                              !
'       CiNationgal IcapitOl
Ac' Lao                r                                                       Dioio t/ae   . ighoy
CApL5 ORNIA/                        sinca                                                                                                                                                   Saleeted stoic toods
L ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     C- '!                                               IDD''--  Rinansf 
0CcSacdrttJURANCO          /5/~~AN
l4LoPo  0>  OiiroO9s-'  /    ZACACCAS  I   I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-il- YCAI
20-                                                                  V.1~~~~~~~~~~~.    0  -b--,Cido
cc9  f            N/lANAI  TO                 VERA CRDAIs2ido
f'A C/F/C  OCEAN                                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,                                                '~pc                                 UITN
+   cCusoITQ~i.l ii~f~                                                                                YUATAN A/nAtt
25  ~~~                                                   &   ~~                                       00.Jetato          ,j'T~~~~~~c9~~0                                                             ,   ~~P~~tt ~~     cozcetLi90. RO
cnllatia     Ocodolojsrd$53i. ~~~~~~~~  ..  C' ,-j  litC d
JAtl.tCO  -..           Pacha~~~~~~~~~~~o                                               Cosapacho       -   A~~~~ECH
PER/A ~ ~ ~ ~~I
*        iK~        /?IACAA                       jnos           ~         at    anpeha                              O//AN
7eZ                      T BASCO~~~~~~~~~HODUA
110-                                                                                                                                                       9P.      -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr~llhrndot"



