01I.MIS      LOAN NUMBER 2142 ME
Project Agreement
(Capital Goods Industries Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MXICO, S.A.
Dated ,   3   I'    ,-1982


﻿LOAN WMBER 2142 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUC   ON AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called the Trustee).
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and the
Trustee, dated October 29, 1971, the Guarantor has entrusted a
special fund (Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial) to the Trustee
for the purpose of promoting and financing the development of
industrial and service enterprises designed to increase exports
and efficiently replace imports;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Trustee have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty two million three hundred thousand dollars
($152,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that, inter alia, the Trustee
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Trustee, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts C and D of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee shall, by means of FONEI,
carry out Parts C and D of the Project described in Section 4.01
(b) of the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound industrial, administrative and financial
policies and practices, and in accordance with the Program
Operating Regulations, the FONEI Operating Regulations and the
Project Execution Paper., and shall, at all times, make available,
promptly as needed, such funds and other resources as shall be
required to meet.FONEI's operating expenses.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, .and without
limitation to the obligations of the Trustee under the preceding
paragraph, the Trustee shall:
(i) make, or cause to be made, available to FONEI for
* purposes of Parts C and D of -the Project at least
$150,000,000 equivalent for a period of not less
than 10 years from the date of this Agreement and
on such terms and conditions and at such times as
shall be required for the carrying out of said
Parts of the Project in accordance with paragraph
.  (a) above; and
(ii) inform the Bank of the terms and conditions other
than the amortization -period on which such funds
have been made available to FONEI, and afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
(c)  The Trustee shall consult with the Bank in making any
change in the FONEI Operating Regulations.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Trustee shall, out of FONEI's resources, make FONEI
Loans to Participating Intermediaries which shall have made Sub-
loans to Investment Enterprises for technical assistance under
Part D of the Project or for Investment Projects in accordance
with  the  Program   Operating  Regulations,the  FONEI Operating
Regulations and the Project Execution Paper.


﻿-3-
(b)   (i) Interest on Sub-loans shall be payable in accor-
dance with a variable rate to be adjusted, if necessary, every
six months so as to make it equal to the prevailing interest rate
on the month before that in whi"ch the adjustment is made plus two
percentage points in the case of Sub-loans under Part C of the
Project and less three percentage points in the case of Sub-loans
under Part D of the Project; and (ii) Sub-loans shall be repay-
able over a period of not more than 13 years, including a grace
period of not more than 3 years; provided, however, that, in the
case of Sub-loans under Part D of the Project, such Sub-loans
shall be repayable as provided in FONEI's Operating Regulations.
(c) The agreements providing for FONEI Loans shall provide
if Sub-loans or any part thereof shall be repaid to Participating
Intermediaries in advance of maturity, or if they shall be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the
Participating Intermediaries, the Participating Intermediaries
shall repay promptly to the Trustee, the amount of the FONEI
Loans corresponding to the Sub-loans or parts thereof so repaid
in advance or disposed of for value.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Trustee shall
furnish to the Bank an application together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  Each request by the Trustee for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a description of the Investment Enterprise
and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Trustee shall otherwise
agree, the applications and requests to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof shall be delivered to the Bank
before December 31, 1985.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Trustee undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, all Sub-loans under Parts C and D o!
the Project will be made on terms whereby the Participating
Intermediary shall obtain, by written contract with the Invest-
ment Enterprise or' by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee and the Partici-
pating  Intermediary  and  to  accomplish   the  purposes  of  the
Project, including the right of the Participating Intermediary
to: (1) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (B) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank
and the Trustee if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and     that such insurance cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Trustee or the Participating Intermediary shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprises;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform any of its
obligations   under   its   contract   with    the   Participating
Intermediary.
(b) The Trustee shall cause each Participating Intermediary
to exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in


﻿-5-
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Trustee, (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of the cor-
responding FONEI Loan, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Trustee shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the FONEI Loans, the Sub-loans, the
Investment Enterprises, and the Investment Projects.
(b)  The Trustee0 (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Parts C and D of the Project ahd the Investment
Projects and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the.Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Parts C and D of the Project and the Investment Projects, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and ser-
vices financed"out of'such proteeds.
(c)- The..Trustee shall.cooperate fully with the Borrower in
the .preparation of the report required under Section 4.04 (b) of
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Trustee shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3-01 of the Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shali otherwise agree, the Trustee shall not
change or fail to'enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2..07. (a) The Trustee shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts C and D of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b)   The Trustee shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Parts C and D of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Trustee of
its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Trustee shall operate FONEI in accordance
with sound financial, industrial and administrative policies and
practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 3.02. The Trustee shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of FONEI.and
of FONEI in respect of Parts C and D of the Project and shall
cause the Participating Intermediaries to maintain such records'
for purposes of the Investment Projects financed by them.
Section 3.03. The Trustee shall: (a) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of the accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) of FONEI frr each fiscal year, in accordance
with   sound  auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent and qualitied auditors appointed by the Guarantor;(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FONEI and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Trustee thereunder shall terminate on the date on


﻿.- 7 -
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
Section 4.03. All the proyisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in  full   force  and  effect   not  withstanding   any
ca4cellgtion or suspension under Article VI of        the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request,required or permitted to
be given ,or made under this Agreement and any agreement, between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made 'when it shall be 4elivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to-which it is required or
permitted to be given oresade at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall .fave
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
*INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D6C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Trustee:
Banco de Mfxico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
M5xico 1, DF. Mfxico


﻿- 8-
Cable address:
LANXICO
M6xido 1. D.F. M6xico
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Trustee, may be taken or executed
by its Director General or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate -in writing, and the Trustee
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall.be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly authorized, have     caused  this
Agreement to be -signed in their respective names in the City of
Toronto, Canada, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
As Trustee for Fondo de Equipamiento
Industrial
Authorized R presentative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this - day of , 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


