Report No. PIC3049
Project Name              Tajikistan-Agricultural Recovery and Social (@&)
Protection (ARSP) Credit
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Agriculture/Social Sector
Project ID                TJPA8863
Borrower                  Tajikistan
Implementing Agency       Office of the Prime Minister
Date this PID Prepared         June 24, 1996 (Updated)
Date Initial PID Prepared      August 3, 1995
Appraisal Date                 May , 1996
Projected Board Date           September 3, 1996
COUNTRY BACKGROUND
The Economic Setting. Tajikistan's economy has been adversely affected
in recent years by three major shocks: the break-up of the FSU which
triggered the collapse of inter-republic trade arrangements, and brought
to an end the generous budget transfers that had long enabled Tajikistan
to consume far more than it produced; the civil war which cost the loss
of many lives and disrupted the economic activity in the country; and
the severe flooding which caused major damage to infrastructure and
productive assets. Even before these shocks, Tajikistan was the poorest
republic of the FSU. Per capita income is estimated at about US$370 for
1995.
As a result of these events, key economic indicators point to an economy
in deep crisis. Production fell by close to 60 percent between 1991 and
1995, with agriculture and industry affected the most. Most industrial
firms are currently operating below one-third of their capacity. The
financial sector has deteriorated rapidly, largely because of the poor
performance of state-owned enterprises. The state budget deficit and the
current account deficit have been unsustainably large and inflation has
been rampant. At present, the country's external debt obligations
amounted to about US$860 million, owed largely to the Russian
Federation, Uzbekistan, Kazakstan and the EU.
The Government's Economic Reform Program. Tajikistan initiated economic
reform shortly after independence in late 1991, but the program was
quickly put on hold because of political turmoil and the accompanying
civil war. Now that the political and security situations are more
stable, the government has resumed the reform effort so as to overcome
the serious economic, financial, and structural problems facing the
country. The Government has clearly signaled its intention to resume the
reform process. Several of the policy measures included in the first
decree issued by the President after the November 1995 election have
already been implemented. The most notable of these has been the
launching of the national currency (Tajik ruble), paving the way for an



independent monetary policy.
The Political and Security Situations. The political and security
conditions, though remaining complex and fragile, have showed continued
improvement over the past year. The last round of peace talks was held
in Aaty in May 1995 and resulted in a cease fire agreement. This
agreement has been extended and will remain in effect until August 1996.
The meetings of the President with the opposition leader which took
place in Kabul on May 17-18, 1995 and in Tehran on July 20, 1995 were
other indicators of the seriousness of government in finding a lasting
solution to the current crisis. Excluding the conflict on the border
with Afghanistan, the rest of the country continues to enjoy peace and
security.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The main objective of the Credit is to reduce poverty in Tajikistan
through the support of policy and structural reforms. The focus is on
support to the Government in the design and implementation of reform in
the areas of agricultural policy, farm restructuring, and the social
safety net. In addition, the Credit will help the stabilization
program, ease import constraints and help arrest the downward spiral of
incomes, consumption and investment.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed Credit supports policies that: (a) liberalize domestic and
external trade; (b) promote the development of the rural economy, with
particular focus on farm restructuring and the efficiency of the cotton
sector; and (c) provide social protection to the poor. The most
important instruments for enhancing social protection are bread
allowances and the provision of basic health care and education. The
Credit is not tranched. The Borrower will undertake not to use the
proceeds for items covered in the negative list and to have the account
audited upon the Bank's request.
PROJECT FINANCING
The proposed Credit would amount to about SDR35 million. Through the
Consultative Group process, IDA would assist Tajikistan in mobilizing
additional financing needed to successfully implement the reform
program. The foreign exchange financing requirements of Tajikistan are
bound to be quite large, given the expected large current account
deficit (owing to high level of imports required by an economy in need
of rehabilitation and to initially low level of exports), the high level
of debt service, and the need to reconstitute reserves at an adequate
level. Given the large size of the financing requirements, debt
reduction/rescheduling must take place.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The borrower will be the Republic of Tajikistan as represented by the
Ministry of Finance. The proposed Credit will be implemented by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which has been created in the Prime
Minister's Office. The PIU will be responsible for coordination with
- 2-



various Government agencies in implementing the reform program and for
providing the World Bank with the necessary information on the progress
on credit implementation relating to policy actions and utilization of
credit proceeds.
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
The proposed rehabilitation credit contains some risks, but it is an
operation with considerable benefits and one that is essential if the
economy is to recover. Macroeconomic stabilization and initial
structural reforms, especially in agriculture, would help stop the
decline in output and employment. Wages and salaries could be paid
regularly and their purchasing power would be protected as inflation
is brought under control. The Credit will help protect the poor from
the adverse impact of adjustment through adequate provisions in the
budget for social welfare payments (bread and child allowances) and
for basic health care and education. In the long run, resumption of
growth and employment would reduce the country's widespread poverty.
The main risks associated with the operation relate to the resumption of
political and social unrest, the limited capacity of implementation, and
the opposition to reforms by some vested interests. While most
observers believe that political stability has increased in recent
months, the environment is still very fragile. At the root of the
political instability are the ethnic tensions that continue to simmer
and occasionally boil over into various disturbances. In order for
these tensions to subside, Government will need to manage them
skillfully and at the same time foster an economic recovery. With
respect to implementation capacity, Tajikistan experienced a massive
loss of human capital as a result of the civil war. Since February
1992, more than 400,000 technical experts have left the country. As a
result, many institutions are operating with less than half the number
of staff members that were in place a few years ago and a greatly
diminished capacity for planning, analysis, and implementation.
Finally, while there is widespread support for the reform process, it is
not universal support. For example, many of the managers of enterprises
to be restructured or privatized may well resist these processes which
could delay the timetables that Government hopes to meet.
POVERTY CATEGORY
The proposed operation is poverty focused. The Credit includes specific
measures to (a) protect the poor from the impact of price
liberalization; (b) protect pensioners from the reforming of the Pension
Fund; (c) promote job creation programs; and (d) monitor the impact of
adjustment on the poor.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
As the Credit is an adjustment operation, no environmental rating has
been assigned. The project would be consistent with IDA policies and
procedures.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
-3-



Provision of foreign exchange to be sold on the foreign exchange auction
would enhance private sector activity and access to necessary inputs.
The sale of foreign exchange will also mobilize non-inflationary
budgetary finance as the local counterpart funds will be transferred to
the central budget.
- 4 -



CONTACT POINT
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone     (202)4585454
Fax       (202)522-1500
Task Manager
Robert E. Christiansen, Principal Economist, EC3C1
Room No. H3-173
Tel. No. 202/473-5516
Fax No. 202/477-3372
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 28, 1996.
- 5 -



