-/Z :29/7- -c r
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6951-TJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL RECOVERY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.8 MILLION (USD50 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
AUGUST 14, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currcncy Unit   =   Russian Ruble (Until May 10, 1995)
Currency Unit   =   Tajik Ruble (After May 10, 1995)
Period Avcrage                     Period Average
(Russian Rubles per US$)            (Tajik Rubles per US$)
1993  December                  1,240          1995   May                 50
1994  December                  3,388                 August              58
1995  January                   3,858                 September          103
February                 4,259                 December           300
March                    4,749          1996   March              280
April                    5,030                  May               278
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARSP                   Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection
*             CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CIS                    Commonwcaltih of Indepcndent States
CPI                    Consumer Price Index
DFI                    Direct Foreign Investmcnt
EBRD                   Europcan Bank for Rcconstruction and Development
EU                     European Union
FSU                    Former Soviet Union
GDP                    Gross Domnestic Product
IBTA                   Institutional Building Tcchnical Assistance
IDA                    Intemational Developmcnt Association
IDF                    Institutional Developmcnt Fund
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
NBT                    National Bank of Tajikistan
NGO                   Non-govemmental Organization
PHRD                   PopulatiOn and Human Resource Development
PIU                   Projcct hnplementaion Unit
SDR                    Special Drawing Rights
SOE                    State Owned Enterprise
SPC                   State Property Commnittee
TA                    Technical Assistance
TACIS                  Technical Assistance to the Commonwealft of Indepmdet States
TR                     Tajik Ruble
UNDP                   United Nations Development Progamme
UNHCR                 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF                 United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                  US Agency for Intemational Development
Vice Prcsident:      Foae  . iDmn, ECA 
Director.            Yukon Huang, EC3|
Division Chief-      Kadir Tanju Yurukcoglu,EC3Cl I
Task Managr:         Robert E. Christiansen, EC3C1
This document has a restricted distnrbution and may be used by eipients only in the performance of their
| ofa duies. Its contents My not othawise be disclosed uiihout World Bank authorization.  il



REPUBLIC OF TAMaSTAN
AGRICULTURAL RECOVERY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION CREDIT
Contents
Page
Credit and Progmm  Summary ..............................i
I.        Introduction .............................                       ........................................................................1
II.    Recent Economic Developments and Prosp  .............................2
A. The Economic Setting ................. .2
B. Medium Term Outlook                                                     .3
m.    The Government's Economic Reform Program ......................................5
A. Maroeconomic Stabilization .......................................5
B. Agricultural Sector Rebnn and Rsucting ......................................6
C. Social Expenditures and the Safety Net ......................................                                   10
TV.       Features of the Proposed Credit ......................................           ..13
A. Objectives ......................................                                                                13
B. The Crcdit and the Country Assistance Strategy ......................................                           13
C. Institufional Capacity and TA ......................................                                             14
D. Coordination with the IMF and other Donors ......................................                               14
B. Im.le             on Arrangements....................................... 14
F. Agremats Reached ....................................... 15
G. Benefits and Risks ......................................                                                        16
H. Ro              D........................................ 6
Annzes:
1. Letter of Development Policy (English)
2. Policy Matrix (Policy Conditions)
3. Key Economic Indicators
4. Timetable of Key Processing Events
5. Status of Bank Group Operations
6. Tajikistan at a Glance



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Agricultural Recovery and Sodal Protection Credit
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower.           Republic of Tajikistan
Amount:             SDR34.8 million
Tenns:              IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Executing Agency:   Office of the Prime Minister
Objectives:         The main objectives of the proposed Credit are to support Government's efforts
to: (a) stabilize the economy; (b) ease the foreign exchange shortage so that
critical imported inputs can be acquired; (c) reform agriculture policy in areas
including the pricing and marketing of agriculural commodities, land reform,
trade, and privatizing state owned enterprises; and (d) enhance the social safety
net and improve its targeting.
Benefits:           Restoring macroeconomic stability and implementing structural reforms in
agriculture would help arrest the collapse in production and employment. The
proposed Credit would allow imports of critical inputs and help finance essential
expenditures in a manner that is non-inflationary. Additionally, the Credit
would partially offset the adverse impact of adjustment on the poor by
enhancing provisions in the budget for elements of the social safety net (bread
and child allowances) and for basic health care and education. In the long run,
restoring growth and employment would reduce the widespread poverty in the
country.
Risks:              The main risks associated with this Credit center on the: (a) fragile political
balance and the possibility of renewed social unrest, and (b) Government's
limited implementation capacity. Although political tensions have eased during
the past year, the peace is still fragile and its consolidation will depend on the
success of the negotiations that were recently resumed.  With respect to
implementation capacity, the political turmoil of recent years has resulted in the
emigration of many skldled personnel and the consequent deterioration of
institutional capacity.
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.
Poverty Category:   Poverty focused. The Credit includes specific measures to: (a) protect the poor
from the transitional effects of liberalization; (b) improve the targeting of the
social safety net; (c) support a farm restrucuring program that is intended to
help low-income households in rural areas; and (d) assist pensioners by
reforming the Pension Fund.
Appraisal Report:   Not applicable.



-i}-
DWbursement:       The proposed Credit, which is classified as a rehabilitation operation, would be
provided in one tranche. On effectiveness of the Credit, disbursements will be
deposited into a Govermment account without the need for evidence of imports
of eligible goods. The Borrower will undertke not to use the proceeds for
items covered in the negative list and to have the account audited upon IDA's
request.
Map:               IBRD No. 25721
Project ID Number:  TJ-PA-8863



REPORT AND RECOMDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF TIE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMNT ASSOCIATION
TO TH EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON AN
AGRICULTURAL RECOVERY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Agricultura Recovery and Social Protection Credit to the Republic of Tajikistan for SDR34.8 million
(USSSO million) to provide support for the Govermment's reform program with particular emphasis on
agricultural recovery and social protection. The Credit, a rehabilitation operation disbursed in one
tranche, would be on standard IDA tems, repayable over 40 years.
2.    Tajilistan became a member of the BRD and IDA in June 1993 and of the IFC in December
1994. To date, assistance from te World Bank Group has consisted of policy advice and an
Institution Building and Technical Assistance Project (IBTA) approved by the Board on May 16, 1996.
The CAS was discussed at the time the IBTA Credit was approved by the Board. A Country
Economic Memorandum was issued in August 1994.
I. bmdu- on
3.    After three yeas of political turmoil, the Government of Tajikistan has resumed the reform
effort that was initiated soon after its indepedence in 1991. The Bank Group and the IMF are
working closely to support and shape the Goverment's refbrm program. In January 1996,
Govnment reached agemement with the BIF on a one-year stand-by aanm_ ent which was approved
by the IMP Board of Directo  in May 1996. The IMF program supports macroeconomic stability
based on the implementation of prudent fiscal and monetary policies. At the request of Governmt,
IDA prepared the proposed Agriclltural Recovery and Social Proteion (ARSP) Credit in the amount
of SDR34.8 million. The proposed ARSP Credit is consistent with the CAS that was discussed by the
Board on May 16, 1996 in conmnction with the IBTA Project.
4.    Economic Background. Tajikistan is a small country of 5.8 million people with only seven
percent of its land area classified as suitable for agriculture.  The combination of rapid popution
growth (about three pacent per year) and limited supplies of arable land have resulted in a serious land
shortage - there was only 0.14 hectares of arable land per capita in 1994. Despite this land pressure,
the economy is predominly agrimultual with    sector accounting for 25 percet of GDP and 50
percent of employment. About seventy percent of the population live in the rural areas.
hiu report D baed on do. finditp of Puepu4ion, Preaia, and Apprid numin th visd Du_habe s
Jun, October, nd Deember l99, d Febtwuay and May 1996.  as. mimuoi wee led by M. Rois (APR) ad tR
Chridian  (FM3CI) and iwued M. Oain;, B. Ouwika (Et3C1); G. Abdukadr &!C3A1); M. Mill, E. Pauumo
BC3HR); M. F}ch (BTFS); S. Dell, L. Brefort (PSD); A. MacBean, A. NeweL, and S. Tabor (CSnh_bnts).  r. K. T.
Yurukglu and Mr. Y. Hung an Us maging Divion Chief and Dqpau Direcr, rpecivdy.
2      Of this sven perceat, 54,000 ecr (about SS perct) can be ued for co prodution. ApproxieWy SS
per.ee (720,000 hecae) of th able am is irigte



-2-
5.    Under the Soviet system, the agriculture sector operated primarily as a cotton growing enclave.
Prior to the breakup of the FSU, cotton production typically accounted for about 50 percent of total
agricultural production - most of which was exported as cotton fiber (lint) - while fruits, vegetables,
grains and livestock accounted for the remainder. Agricultural production, and especially cotton, were
heavily dependent on Imported inputs and external markets for the sale of cotton fiber. Only 13
percent of industrial production was accounted for by agricultural and food processing. The industrial
sector, which is dominated by aluminum production, accounts for 35 percent of GDP and 12 percent of
employment. Cotton fiber and aluminum together accounted for roughly 90 percent of exports.
6.    Poltical Background. Immediately following independence - declared amid the collapse of
the Soviet Union -- the country suffered an outburst of political and ethnic strife. Although elections
were held shortly after independence and again in 1992, political and ethnic rivalries erupted into a
civil war that lasted from mid-1992 through early 1993. Gradually, however, the Government -
relying heavily on military support from Russia - has been able to reestablish its control over most of
the population. Following implementation of a cease fire (September 1994), a new constitution was
adopted by referendum in late 1994, and presidential elections were held with Imamali Rahmamov
elected as head of state. Elections for a new parliament (Majles Oli) were held in February 1995.
7.    Peace talks have been underway intermittently since May 1995 and the cease fire agreement
has been extended through August 1996. Nonetheless, there have been numerous violations of the
cease-fire particularly in the Southeastern part of the country and along the border with Afghanistan.
The main obstacles to peace appear to be disagreement over proposed constitutional changes and the
restructuring and staffing of Government agencies. At the heart of the domestic conflict of recent
years is ethnic conflict over political power. This conflict was in evidence in early February 1996
when military units nominally loyal to Government demanded changes in several senior political
appointmnents. At least partially as a consequence of this unrest, the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Minister, and several other officials, resigned. More recently (May), riots in the northern part of the
country resulted in new appointments at the local level designed to achieve better ethnic balance. Such
ongoing low-level conflicts provide a reminder of the fragility of the peace and are likely to continue
until a peace agreement is finalized. Currently, plans are being made for the President of Tajikistan to
meet directly with the opposition leader in an effort to resolve outstanding differences and bring the
peace process to a satisfactory closure.
II. Recent Economic Developments and Ponects
A. The Economic Setting
8     At independence, Tajikistan was the poorest republic of the FSU and remains so today - its
estimated per capita income in 1995 was $370. The poverty that was inherited from the FSU was due
largely to geographical factors. Most of the poor were located in the remote eastern areas of the
country, although there were pockets of severe poverty in other parts of the country. In recent yea,
the nature and extent of poverty has changed - becoming more widespread and intense - in large
measure because of three major shocks that account for much of the decline in GDP. First, the break-
up of the FSU precipitated the collapse of inter-republic trade arrangements and brought an end to the
gonerous budget transfers that had long enabled Tajikistan to consume far more than it produced.
£u&ngd, the political turmoil of the early 1990o resulted in the loss of about 50,000 lives.
Additionally, the tumoil - which still simmers in some parts of the country - continues to have a
direct disruptive effect on economic activity especially in the south and east. Ai a consequence, there



-3-
is an ongoing lack of security in some parts of the country. This, combined with the absence of
effective and responsible administrative institutions, deters people in some areas from carrying out
legitimate economic activities. Tibrd, a series of natural disasters including flooding in 1992 and 1993
as well as more recent flooding and mudslides (May 1996) caused damage to Infrastructure and
productive assets. These shocks, along with other factors including weak economic management, have
contributed to the current severe economic crisis. Production fell by about 60 percent between 1991
and 1995 with both agriculture and industry affected. Most industrial firms are currently operating
below one-third of their capacity, while agricultural production is only about 30 percent of its 1991
level.
9.    Heavily dependent on transfers from Moscow during the Soviet era, both the state budget and
current account deficits have been unsustainably large. Budget deficits, on a cash basis, averaged 22
percent of GDP during the period 1992-94. For 1995, the deficit on a cash basis is estimated to have
declined to about 11 percent of GDP. This decline was due chiefly to a large reduction in cash outlays
and was financed through expansion of domestic bank credit. For 1996, the Govermnent intends to
keep the budget deficit at about five percent of GDP, largely through sharp reductions in expenditures
(including the rescheduling of external debt payments) and increases in revenues. Taxation on cotton
and aluminum is projected to account for nearly half of total revenues.
10.   Until recently, inflation was rampant - reaching 2,200 percent in 1993, 350 percent in 1994,
and about 635 percent in 1995 - due to monetary developments in Russia (whose currency Tajikistan
used until May 1995) and excessive monetary expansion after the launch of the Tajik ruble. Beginning
in early 1996, however, inflationary pressure subsided with prices increasing only 2.8 percent in April
and 0.5 percent in May. Following the launch of the Tajik ruble, wages and salaries were paid more
regularly, although some arrears continued to accumulate. The exchange rate depreciated rapidly in
1995 -- from TR50/$ when it was first introduced, to TR300/$ in December - but has stabilized in
recent months at about TR280/$.
11.   Exacerbated by terms of trade shocks associated with the rising relative cost of energy and
grain imports, current account deficits averaged 23 percent of GDP between 1992 and 1994. The
deficit was financed on commercial terms primarily by external borrowing from FSU trading partners.
In 1995, the current account registered a small surplus due to favorable world prices for cotton and
aluminum. At present, the country's external debt amounts to about US$810 million, over 80 percent
of which is owed to the CIS countries - mainly Russia, Uzbekistan and Kazakstan. Other creditors
include the European Union, Turkey and the United States. Govermnent has had trouble servicing this
debt and is currently in arrears on many payments.
12. The Govermnent has requested, with support from the IMF, that its major creditors reschedule
those debts that are currently in arrears or fall due in 1996. These comprise approximately half of the
country's total external debt. The EU accepted a stand-still on overdue debt servicing obligations for
1996. Kazakstan, Turkey, Uzbekistan and Russia have all formally agreed to enter into negotiations to
reschedule their debt on terms consistent with the IMF program. The IMF assumes rescheduling with
a 15 year maturity, five year grace period, and an interest rate of about three percent.
B. Medium Term Outlook
13. Given the major risks and uncertainties facing Tajikistan, medium term projections are
unavoidably subject to a larger than normal margin of error. There is, nonetheless, one feature of the
medium term econcmic outlook that is clear - any plausible policy reform scenario for stabiizaton



.4-
and structural adjustment of the economy must be underpinned by substantial baance of
payments support. The economy, which has been living on transfers, unsustainable levels of
borrowing and, recently, accumulation of arrears, is on the verge of foreign exchange strangulation.
Import volumes, already depressed, declined during 1995 by 20 percent versus an estimated decline in
real GDP of slightly over 13 percent. Shortages of inputs such as fertilizer and other agricultural
chenicals have sharply reduced yields and production of cotton and other key crops.  Foreign
exchange reserves, at the end o:' 1995, were less than one week's worth of non-alumina, non-grant
imports.
TAJIKSTAN-EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS AND SOURCES
(in millions of US$)
1994   1995    1996             1996-2000
Actua  Estdmated  Projected     Projected
Annual Averge
Gross Flnanciig Requirements                         302     192       531               291
Non-Interest Current Account                     176      -4        74                96
Exports                                         559    657        595               710
Imports                                         707     628       643               761
Services (net)                                   28      25        26                46
Interest Payments                                 19      28        72                35
Public Debt Amortization                          19    102        171                108
Changes in Reserves (+ increase)                   0       2        41                 17
Other a/                                          88      64       173                35
Sources of Financing                                 302     192       531               291
Official Grants                                   25      25        31                42
Long Term Public Debt Disbursements               44      19        21                58
Direct Foreign Investment                         12      13        13                29
Exceptional financing b/                         221     135        81                 16
Needed Rescheduling                                0       0       313                63
IMF Purchases (Standby)                                             22                 0
IDA (ARSP Credit)                                                   50                 10
Residual financing gap                                 0       0         0                73
a/Includes net of changes in areas, short-tern capital flows, and erronrs and omissions
b/ Icludes past conversions of arrears and correspondent acCOunt balinces into debt in 1994 ($221 milion) and in
1995 (S 135 million).
Source: Tajik Auihorities, IMF and World Bank Staff Estimates.
14.    Absent substantial balance of payments support, it will be impossible to achieve a viable
balance of payments position without further severe compression of the economy. The major balance
of payments issie facing Govemment is its large debt, which at the end of 1995 was US$817 million.3
Most of this debt (US$570 million) is owed to FSU republics, chiefly Russia and Uzbeldstan. Even
under optimistic assumptions, there is no prospect that Tajikistan could meet entant debt service
schedules. In 1996, total external gross financing needs are estimated at $531 million, with $243
3       The country's ratio of scheduled debt service to exports for 1996 is projected to be 40.8 percent. The average
value of tis ratio for the other heaviy indebted, low income counaies is 44.9 percenL Of tbe 32 counties low income
countries classified as having a debt problem 14 have ratios of less than 40 percent



-5-
million of this amount being debt service due this year. Debt relief alone, however, will not be
sufficient to solve the financing gap. After debt rescheduling, expeced current grants, DFI and
disbursements from existing loans, the total external Financing requirements for 1996 are estimated at
US$150 million. The proposed ARSP Credit is for USSS0 million, or tbout one-third of this finamcing
requirement. The IMP financing support represents another 15 percent (US$22 million) of the
financing requirement. The remaining financing gap Is expected to be filled by the EU in the fonn of
exceptional financing in the amount of the outstanding debt. Until this arrangement is finrlized, the
EU will not require payments on the outstanding amount.
15.   In the medium term  increased donor support is essential to achieving balance of payments
viability consistent with reasonable burden sharing among the institutions and governments providing
support to Tajikistan. Over the next five years, Tajikistan will require about US$170 million per year
of assistance over and above the debt reduction and rescheduling expected in 1996 and the
disbursements from existing loans. Of this total, humanitarian grants and DFI are expected to provide
about S70 million, leaving nearly $100 million to be provided by new net concessional borrowing. It
is anticipated that this gap will be filled by increased donor support as the stabilization program
becomes more firmly established, additional debt reief (involving essentially Russia, Kazakstan,
Turkey and Uzbekistan), and by continued support from international financial institutions.
m. The Government's Economic Reform  grm
16.   The Govermnent understands, at the highest level, that it has no development option other than
implementing widespread policy reform and restructuring of the economy with the result that there is
strong ownership of the reform program. The program developed by Government in early 1995 was
approved by Parliament in November 1995 and is to be implemented over the period 1995-2000. The
proposed ARSP Credit focuses on a few key components of the Government's reform program to
enhance their design and pace of implementation. The scope of the ARSP is intenionally limited to
hree areas in recognition of Government's limited institutional capacity: (a) supporting the
restoration of macroeconomic stabilit in cilaboratlon with the IMF; (b) refonfig apiculral
policies; and (c) improving the target  and viability of the sodial safety net. The Government's
Letter of Development Policy is provided in Annex 1.
A. Macroeconomic Stabilization
17.   Although Govermnent's efforts to achieve macroeconomic stability were uneven during mid-
1995, the IMD4 supported program has been on tracl since late 1995 and is begining to show results.
Several mnacroeconomic policy measures have already been implemented as prior actions of the DIF-
supported program. (The most notable of these was the creation of the national currency - Tajik ruble
- which paved the way for an independent monety policy.) Consequendy, the decline in GDP is
expected to slow in 1996 and inflation is targeted to decline from an average of 45 percent per month
in late 1995 to four percent per month by September 1996. Recent pfmance (para. 10) indicates
that the economy will achieve this target. The current account deficit is targeted at roughly 13 percent
of GDP and the level of intemational reserves is projected at a mirnim of four weks of imports
(excluding alumina).
Fiscal Policy
18.   Under the stabilization program supported by the IMF, Govrenment is committed to raising
revenues and reducing expenditures in order to contain the budget deficit at about five percent of GDP



in 1996. Measures taken to reduce expenditures Include reducing subasiles, limiting non-ssontial
recurrent spending, and reducing public Investment. On the revenue side, Government is Introducing a
fixed tax on cotton (while dilminating the distortionary intermediate taxes on cotton) an4d aluminum,
stepping up tax collection efforts, eliminating major tax exemptions. and increasing public utility tariffs
to near-market levels. Nonetheless, public revenues remain quite low -- total revenues are expected to
represent about 13 percent of GDP in 1996 and expendIturm about 19 percent.
Credit and Monetary Policies
19.   The immediate focus of the authorities is on enhancing financial discipline in the banking
sector, while introducing market-based instruments of monetary policy. For example, the refinance
rate for the National Bark of Tajikistan's overdraft facility, which serves as a source of short-tern
liquidity, was increased to 40 percent per month in October 1995 in an effort to achieve positive real
rates. Lower rates of inflation allowed authorities to reduce the refinance rate to 15 percent per month
in March and 10 percent in June 1996. Additionally, after introduction of the national currency in
mid-May 1995, the authorities raised the interest rates on loans and deposits. Recognizing that only
partial reliance can be placed on market-based tools of monetary policy, the authorities introduced in
Fcbruary 1995, as a ternporary measure, a system of bank credit ceilings. These ceilings were raised
in June 1995 and extended until December 1996.
20.   At a later stage, it will be necessary to reform the sectoral banks to ensure that credit
availability does not constrain economric growth. Anticipating this stage of the reform program,
several preparatory actions are planned. First, diagnostic studies of the sectoral and savings banks will
be completed with particular attention being paid to Agroprombank, the institution with prinary
responsibility for lending to agriculture. In this context. Agroprombank will establish a special urit
(by the end of 1996) that will begin providing agricultural credit on commnercial terms to the newly
created leasehold farmers in time for the 1997 season. Simultaneously, the NBT will be revising the
accounting standards to be applied to all commercial banks. Second, in order to support the revised
accounting framework as well as the tighter regulatory framework, laws on the use of collateral and
guarantees will be developed and passed. Third, as preparation for the planned mass-privatization
schemne, the legal foundation for the stock exchange and the issue of securities will be reviewed.
Technical assistance is needed in all these areas, some of which will be provided under the IBTA
project.
B. Agricultural Sector Reform and Restucturing
21.   Recognizing the importance of the agricultural sector and the numerous distortions hindering
its performance, Govermnent has initiated four broad agricultural policy changes: (a) restrucurngof
the collective and state farms; (b) liberaliig the pricing, marketing, and trade enviroments;
(c) privatizing agricultural enterprises; and (d) updating the legal framework for private sector
development.
Fsta  Restrucing
22.   Current Structure. The approximately 600 state and collective farms are responsible for
cultivating most (85-90 percent) of the arable land in the country. Less than ten percent of arablc land
controlled by these farms (about 75,000 hectares) was allocated to private household plots. Despite the
disparity in land access, the private household plots accounted for a disproportionate share (25 to 30
percent) of the value of agricultural production compared to the state and collective farms (70 percent).



-7-
Such a disparity in productivity is due to several factors, the most salient of which seems to be a
higher intensity of labor use on the household plots. This experience, comibined with population
pressure on arable land and the experience of other countries, suggests that the main source of growth
in the sector will be more labor intensive production. Such intensification of land use will require
more employment intensive technologies and downsizing of the large-scale state and collective farns in
favor of smaller-scale, privately operated fanms.
23.    Farm Restructuring. As originally constituted, the Government's proposed farm restructuring
program focused on: (a) eliminating most state farms by converting them into collective farms;
(b) transforming collective farms operating at a loss into small-scale, privately-operated, leasehold
farms; (c) providing land access rights by issuing long-term inheritable leases; and (d) allowing the
fonnation of voluntarily constituted groups of individual farmers. The only remaining state-owned
farms (totaling about 30,000 hectares) will provide research and test facilities for selected activities
(e.g., livestock breeding and seed production) until the private sector is able to assune these functions.
24.    More recently, Govermment has sought to strengthen the design and implementation of the farm
restructuring program in order to make it sustainable, equitable, and irreversible. Although much of
the detailed design of the fann restructuring program will be completed under the IBTA Credit,
Government has sought to lay the foundation for that work by issuing a Presidential Decree (June 25,
1996) that specifies the guiding principles for the farm restructuring program. These principles stress
a commitment to: (a) using transparent and equitable criteria for selecting those who will receive land
access rights; (b) providing fair compensation to those collective farm members who do not receive
land access rights; and (c) developing an exit mechanism based on the unrestricted transferability of
land access rights to third parties.
25.   In order to ensure that there is an adequate legal foundation for the farm restructuring
program, Government recently approved and submitted (on June 25, 1996) to the Majlisi Oli a Land
Code that builds on the principles announced in the Presidential Decree. Specifically, the Land Code
states that the fann restructuring program will: (a) use transparent and equitable criteria for selecting
farmers to receive land, (b) allow unrestricted transfer of land access rights, (c) provide equitable
compensation from the existing assets of the collective farm for those households not receiving land as
a means of allowing these individuals to remain productive members of the rural community;
(d) convert all land currently controlled by collective and state farms into private farms operated under
the tenrs of life-long inheritable leases; (e) use elected Local Land Committees to allocate the assets of
state and collective farms among the eligible recipients and ensuring that, in situations where there is
no suflicient land for all mrnembers of the farm, those individuals or households not receiving land will
receive fair and adequate compensation; (f) guarantee the right of leaseholders to join a voluntary
association of farmers; and (g) eliminate all land use restrictions by the end of 1996. These guidelines
are contained in the Land Code that was approved by Goverment, and submitted to the Majlisi Oli for
its approval. It is not expected that any involuntary resettlement will result from this process of farm
restructuring.
26.    Additionally, Government has: (a) prepared terms of reference for a study that will detai the
mechanisms for implementing the fann restructuring program; (b) issued about an additional 3000 life-
long inheritable leases since July 1995, (c) issued short term leases on 100,000 hectares of land
previously controlled by the state and collective farms; (d) provided land use rights to 50,000 ha. for
households that previously did not have access to any or isfficient land; and (e) reaffirmed the right
of rural households to hold their present homes and associated household plots as private property after
the farm restructuring program.



-8-
Pricing, Marketing and Trade Reform
27.   As in other FSU countries, the state order system in Tajikistan defmed the pricing and
marketing environment for all agricultural commodities. Under this system, all commodities were
procured and distributed by public sector institutions at fixed prices.  The main objectives of
liberalizing the agricultural pricing and marketing system are to: (a) establish prices 9 inncentives and
signals; and (b) liberalize marketing in order to allow greater private sector activity.
28.   Decontrolling Prices and Reducini Subsidies. Beginning in 1993, the Govermnent began to
liberalize prices for agricultural commodities.  In recent months, Government extended the
liberalization of prices. For example. in August 1995, prices on most agricultural commodities (except
cotton, silk and wheat) were liniinated. In March 1996, Government took the politically difficult
action of abolishing the subsidy on bread production and liberalizing prices for wheat and flour.
29.   Prior to 1996, the producer price of cotton was set by Government and, at least nominally,
consisted of two payments. The first was nade upon delivery of the raw cotton to the ginnery and the
second payment was to be made after the precise export earnings and costs are known. In recent
years, the second payment has not been made which results in a high implicit level of taxation. At the
beginning of the 1995 harvest season, the producer price for a ton of cotton fiber was approtely
13 percent of the net revenue eamed from the export of a ton of cotton fiber. Between August 1995
and March 1996, Govermnent eliminated price controls on all agricultural commodities, except cotton.
In October 1995, Government increased the producer price from TR1 1,400 per ton of raw cotton
procured through Glavchlopkoprom (the state cotton marketing agency), to at least TR34,000 per ton
for the 1995 crop. Government has announced that cotton prices and marketing will be fully
liberalized for the 1996 cotton harvest season.
30.   A related issue is that of the price for irrigation water. Tajikdstan consumes only about 17
percent of the water flowing through the country with the balance shared among down river countries
under the terms of an existing water agreement. The provision of free water for domestic irrigation by
state and collective farms constitutes a significant subsidy to the agricultural sector. In April 1996,
Govermnent announced that all users of irrigation water will begin paying fees. The Ministry of Water
Resources is currently preparing contracts with all users of irrigation water that will specify fees that
cover the full cost of water delivery.
31.   Liberalizing Marketing and Trade. In 1993, the Government began liberalizing the agricultural
marketing environment by reducing the share of production sold on state order and allowing producers
to sell the portion of output not on state order at market prices. Nonetheless, the public sector r
the dominant force in the markeding of agricultural inpuv. and outputs. This domnance has its roots
in: (a) Government's continued monopoly of input supply as well as the processing and nmrketng of
the most important crop - cotton; and (b) restrictions on exporting agricultural comnodities.
32.   In August 1995, Government formally eliminated the state order system, except for cotton.4
For cotton, Government reduced purchases of cotton on state order from 90 percent to 70 percent for
the 1995 crop season and to zero for the 1996 crop season. Unfortunately, Glavchlopkoprom assumed
that the right to retain 30 percent of cotton production applied only to those producers that met the
4     Recognizing the need to develop a replacement procuement system for Stae orders, Government has requetd an
IDF grant from die World Bank for die design of such a system based on competidve bids.



-9-
entire state order. Since the state order was set at 750,000 tons of raw cotton and total production was
only 416,000 tons (of which 368,000 was marketed through Glavchlopkoprom), producers were
allowed to retain only 8,500 tons of cotton fiber instead of the 30,000 tons they were entitled to retain.
Glavchl3pkoprom has, however, made compensatory payments to producers in the amount of four
million dollars - which is the size of the foregone income resulting from this error.
33.   Eliminating the state order system for cotton is only a partial solution to the problem of
Government control of marketing channels for cotton, because Government continues to control both
the processing of raw cotton and the export of cotton fiber through Glavcdlopkoprom.
(Glavchlopkoprom operates 20 of the country's 26 gins and provides spare parts and technical advice
for the remaining six.) To ensure that Glavchlopkoprom provides ginning services on conact at a
competitive fee, in October 1995, Government adopted guidelines - as a transitional measure until
greater competition in ginning has been achieved in 1997 - to ensure that ginning fees do not exceed
20 percent of the price paid to producers for raw cotton. Moreover, Government plans to privatize
nine of the 26 cotton ginneries currently under the control of Glavchlopkoprom or the Ministry of
Agriculture during 1996 and another 10 during 1997. Finally, Government plans to privatize the
operations of Glavchlopkoprom and has prepared terms of reference for a study (to be carried out
under the IBTA project) of the options for privatizing Glavchlopkoprom.
34.   Another barrier to increased private sector involvement in marktng of agriculural
commodities - including cotton - has been the need for import and export licenses. Therefore,
Govermnent has modified its guidelines and now allows individuals and firms to import agricultural
inputs and export agricultural commodities without a license.
35.   The effective tax on cotton producers is difficult to estimate becase of the problem of
ascertaining the value of inputs supplied to farms. Prior to February, dtree taxes - amounting to one-
third of the export price - were levied on exported cotton (excise tax of 30.5 percent, VAT of 20
percent, and a special tax of three percent.) In February 1996, Govenmnent eliminated export taxes
and duties on all agricultural commodities, except cotton. For cotton, Govermnent replaced cxistng
taxes with a fixed lump sum (or presumptive) tax of $2.7 million per month as part of its agreement
with the IMF.
36.   In order to alleviate the shortage of imported inputs, it is crucial that cotton producer be
allowed access to their foreign exchange. To this end, while Government requires a full repaiation of
foreign exchange proceeds, it has modified its guidedines in order to allow all exporters to retain 100
percent of the proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. Hence, the presen shortage of agricultural
inputs (e.g., fertilizers and chemicals) will be addressed by: (a) allowing private exporters to retain all
their foreign exchange earnings in private accounts (or sell them at the auction) which can then be used
to finance imports; and (b) channeling the foreign exchange from the proposed Credit through the
foreign exchange auction.
Updating the Legal Framework
37.   Although some progress has been made in establishing the basic legal foundation for a market
economy, in general, legislation protecting private property rights is weak, incomplete in its
elaboration of procedures and regulations, and leaves considerable latitude for continued state
intervention in private commercial activities. The Government recognized the indequacy of the
existing legislation and in November 1995 the law on privatiation was amended. The revised law



-10-
enpowers the State Property Committee to, inter alia, select enterprises to be privatized and inroduce
broad public participation in the privatization process.
C. Social Expenditures and the Safety Net
38.   Given the precipitous fall of income combined with the collapse of inherited social programs
and the potentially high transitional social cost of the reforn measures, it is clear that growth alone
will not be sufficient to reduce poverty especially in the near-term. At the same time, Government
recognizes that Tajikistan cannot afford to maintain the level of social investment and protection that it
enjoyed under the Soviet system. The resources available in the budget are highly constrained, but
their more efficient use will have at least some impact on the level of poverty. Consequently,
Government is trying to achieve a balance between the need for social assistance in the form of a safety
net, efforts to maintain the quality of health and education services, and a severely constrained budget.
Govermment's efforts to strike this balance center on improving the efficiency and targeting of its social
programs. The proposed Credit supports Government's efforts to improve socal programs In
three specific areas by: (a) protecting social sector budget allocatios; (b) improving the targeting
of safety net expenditures; and (c) res    pension and socidal isuce progrms.
Protectng Health and Education Expenditures
39.   Since 1992, the education and health sectors have been severely impaired by the colapse in
Government revenues and expenditures. The combined share of GDP that was allocated to these two
sectors was 17 percent in 1992 and about seven percent of a much smaller GDP in 1995. As a
consequence, supplies are scarce, wage payments have been iregular, and highly qualified staff
continue to leave both sectors. School attendance is falling and indicators show a worsening of the
nation's health, especially in the rural areas. There is an urgent need for emergency measures in these
two sectors, including iimediate efforts to improve the supply of textboks and basic drugs. In the
short-term, the priority is to ensure that these sectors receive a reasonable share of the severely
constrained budget. Consequently, Government allocated a fifth of the 1996 budget to these two
sectors - 5.5 percent to health and 14.5 percent to education.
Targeting Social Payments: Allowances and Subsidies
40.   Historically, household allowances and public enterprise subsidies were unsustnably large (18
percent of GDP in 1994) and inefficiently delivered.  Subsidies to public enterprises, which
represented about 13 percent of GDP in 1994, were a major part of the overall social protection system
in Tajikistan because they allowed consumer prices to be kept below the cost of production. The bulk
of these subsidies were for bread production (paras. 41 and 42), irrigation (para. 30), and
transportation. To protect the poor from liberalization of transport prices, the Govenment will
explore options for the use of transport vouchers for selected groups.
41.   The most important element of the social safety net in Tajildstan is the bread conon
allowance. Tajik households consume a relatively high level of bread products. Prior to May 1995,
the Government provided a universal bread allowance of 1,800 Russian rubles for each citizen
(representing 4.5 percet of GDP in 1994). Additionally, bread production was heavily subsidized
(8.4 percent of GDP in 1994). As of July 1995, these subsidies amounted to 50 pcet of the price of
a loaf of bread and constituted an expensive universal subsidy that did little to target the poor.



-11-
42.   In August 1995, both the bread compensation allowance and the production subsidy were
replaced by the reintroduction of a targeted bread allowance and a child allowance. In December
1995, the bread compensation allowance was doubled to compensate partially for liberalized bread
prices. On March 1, 1996, the Government fully liberalized the prices of bread and flour and
increased the bread compensation allowance by an additional 70 percent. (Between August 1995 and
June 1996 bread prices rose approximately eightfold reflecting the removal of public subsidies and
higher local currency prices for imported wheat.) At the same time, the bread compensation and child
allowances were combined into single social welfare payment. This social welfare payment, which
amounts to TR500 per month, was targeted to children under 16 years old (for households with per
capita income less than twice the minimum wage). non-working pensioners whose pensions are less
than double the minimum wage, registered unemployed workers, and the disabled. Because of the
dramatic changes in the economy in recent years, the present targeting system (which is based on 1993
household survey data) needs to be revised. The Government has decided to undertake a household
survey in order to provide a better basis for targeting.
43.   In the 1996 budget. Government allocated TR7.8 billion for social welfare compensation. This
allocation assumes 1.4 million of beneficiaries (out of a population of 5.8 million). Should the number
of applicants for assistance during 1996 prove to be higher than expected, the Government will, in
consultation with IDA, adopt corrective measures to keep the total amount of allowances within the
budget allocation.
Targeting Social Payments: Pension, Social Insurance and Employment Benefits
44.   In 1991, Government set up three extra-budgetary funds to replace the large social trtnsfers
from Moscow. Each of the three funds was given a share of the 39 percent tax on enterprise wage
bills. Of the three funds, the largest is the Pension Fund, which receives just over 32 percentage
points of the tax. The Social Insurance Fund and the Employment Fund account for six and one
percentage points of the payroll tax, respectively. Since the end of 1993, inflation and the downward
spiral of output has meant that enterprises have been unable or unwilling to pay the wage bill tax with
the result that each of the funds has suffered serious revenue shortfalls. In turn, there have been many
months when the funds have not been able to make payments to their beneficiaries. The current
economic and financial situation provides little ground for optimism that regular full payments will be
resumed in the near term.
45.   The Pension Fund is responsIl.e for the payment of retirement benefits (about three-quarters of
the Fund's obligations) as well as paymerts for invalids and some other social benefits. Presently,
there are numerous strc'iural pioblems witii the Pension Fund that have contributed to the current
crisis. These.; include: (a) the fund's promise to pay pensions on the basis of workers' previous
income, as if those workers were paying into an investment account, whereas current pension payments
are based on current payments by enterprises; (b) isolation from the central government budgetary
process; and (c) a rate of taxation on the wage bill is too high.
46.   Consequently, the system needs to be reformed to create an effective and sustainable social
safety net -- albeit one with lower levels of benefits than during the Soviet era. Therefore, in June
1996, as a temporary measure, Government limited: (a) the value of pensions in order to achieve
greater regularity in payments: and (b) the monthly payment to the amount of actual revenue
collections. Further, Government has announced that all pensioners will be paid at the minimum rate
and that the monthly surplus in the Pension Fund, if any, will be distributed to the eligible pensioners
proportionately to their entitlements. Any arrears that are accumulated will be canceled at the end of



-12-
each quarter. Additionally, Govermnent has announced that pensions will no longer be paid to
working pensioners.
47.   In order to improve the administration of social insurance, in February 1996, Government
consolidated the collection of all payroll taxes under the responsibility of a single agency and
centralized the collection and allocation of Pension Fund revenues to mitigate regional disparities. In
addition, the Government removed the responsibility for paying child allowances from the Pension
Fund and integrated it with the social welfare payment.
48.   The Social Insurance Fund is an extra-budgetary fund managed by the Governing Council of
Trade Unions that pays sick leave and maternity benefits and also provides various worker amenities.
As with the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund has been unable to meet its commitments in
recent years. Entitlements are generous by international standards and give rise, when in operation, to
excessive use of limited health care services. Sick leave benefits provide up to 100 percent of a
worker's salary for up to four months and birth grants are provided for up to dtree children.
49.   Recognizing the need to reduce these benefits, Govermnent issued a decree that reduces
maximum sick leave entitlement to one month per year and submitted the supporting legislation to the
Majlisi Oli. Additionally, Government plans to transfer responsibility for sickness and maternity leave
benefits to the enterprise responsible for employing the individual.
50.   The Employment Fund was set up to finance the Employment Centers - the main institutions
through which certain benefits for labor are delivered, e.g., job placement, payment of unemployment
benefits, public works for the unemployed, training and retraining, protection of disabled and
disadvantaged workers, and registration and repatriation of refugees from the civil war. There are two
immediate problems with Employment Centers that need to be addressed.  First, as presently
constituted, the unemployment funds are regional with the result if enterprises in a particular region do
not pay the wage bill tax, unemployment benefits are not paid. A more centralized fund would allow
inter-regional transfers to more distressed areas. Second, with the current unemployment benefits set
equal to the minimum wage and an employment tax of one percent, the Employment Fund would run a
deficit if those claiming benefits are more than four percent of the labor force. Therefore, Government
has discontinued financing wage subsidies for maintaining jobs in financially distressed enterprises.
Supplementary Job-creation
51.   The combination of only very slow economic recovery (and therefore slow employment
growth) and a rapidly growing labor force (by at least 100,000 annually) mean the problem of
unemployment will not be solved by growth in the near term. Even if economic growth were to be as
much as five percent per year, in contrast to the projection of continuing decline for the next two to
three years, the number of new jobs would still be only about 60,000 per year - well short of what is
necessary to absorb new entrants to the labor force.
52.   Recognizing the magnitude of the unemployment problem, Government has allocated TR150
million for the public works program managed by the Employment Service. Such an approach is
especially attractive given the considerable amount of rehabilitation and reconstruction work (e.g.,
roads, bridges, schools and clinics) that needs to be completed.
53.   Additionally, Government is also preparing, with financial and technical support from IDA, a
Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project that will provide targeted income transfers to low-income households



-13-
via a variety of programs, including labor intensive infrastructure rehabilitation, a group guaranteed
lending program, and small-scale agricultural development projects.  Recognizing the limited
implementation capacity in Government and urgent need for employment opportunities, this project
would rely extensively on NGOs for implementation. The Project would also establish the basis for
the operation of a social investment fund.
Poverty Assessment
54.   The Government needs assistance to prepare a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. This
would include preparing a profile of the poor and of vulnerable groups as well as mechanisms for
monitoring changes in poverty. Because of acute data limitations, technical support will be needed to
prepare this profile and the poverty reduction strategy. Under the proposed Credit, agreement was
reached with the Government on the terms of reference for a poverty assessment.
IV. Features of the Proposed Credit
A. Objectives
55.   The ultimate objective of the proposed rehabilitation Credit (ARSP) is to reduce the widespread
poverty in the country by: (a) fostering an enviroment that is favorable to growth by supporting
macroeconomic stabilization and policy reform; and (b) protecting vulnerable groups during the
transition period by improving the targeting and perfonnance of the social safety net.
56.   The instruments employed by the proposed ARSP Credit to achieve the dual goals of enhancing
growth and social protection would include:
- supporting the macroeconomic reform program;
* supporting Government's efforts to design and implement a policy reform program,
particularly in the areas of agricultural policy reform and farm restructuring, because with
Tajikistan's particular resource endowment this offers the greatest potential for an
immediate supply response and, in turn, the greatest reduction of poverty;
providing non-inflationary resources to the budget;
. easing the severe foreign exchange and import constraints and thereby help restore
production, employment, and consumption;
easing the liquidity constraint on consumers by allowing regular payments of wages and
salaries and producers by liberalizing prices and markets; and
* strengthening the targeting and performance of the safety net by focusing benefits on
children, low income pensioners, and non-working pensioners.
B. The Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy
57.   The proposed Credit is fully consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for
Tajikistan as discussed by the Board on May 16, 1996. Recognizing the risks associated with the
political and economic instability in Tajikistan, the CAS calls for a flexible approach to the Bank
Group's assistance program between now and the end of FY97. Under this approach the Bank will
continue preparing the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project and implementing the IBTA and the proposed



-14-
ARSP Credit provided the security situation remains satisfactory. Additionally, the Bank Group will
begin preparation of an adjustment credit provided an IMF program remains in place.
58.   The FY96-97 Bank Group program aims at arresting the intensification of poverty through
measures designed to foster a supply response based on employment intensive growth combined with
direct steps to protect the most vulnerable groups. The proposed ARSP Credit is fully consictent with
the CAS because of its concentration on: (a) liberalizing price and trade controls, particularly in
agriculture; (b) assisting Government to achieve a balance between the need for social protection and
investment and the stringent budget constraint; (d) improving the targeting of the social safety net;
(e) supporting farm restructuring that will grant land access rights to individuals; and (f) increasing the
role of the private sector, especially in the agricultural sector.
C. Institutional Capacity and TA
59.   Tajikistan currently lacks the institutional capacity and experience to carry out its economic
reform program.  These shortcomings, however, are being addressed through the provision of
technical assistance in several areas. First. the proposed IDA Credit is designed to be largely capacity
saving rather than capacity using by ensuring that a significant number of the proposed measures can
be implemented by the stroke of a pen. A Japanese PHRD grant will be used to finance the poverty
survey and the TA to complete the planned Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project. The design and
implementation of a procurement system is being financed under an IDF grant approved in June 1996.
Second, the IDA financed IBTA project is financing the plans for privatizing Glavchlopkoprom
(including its ginneries) and implementing the farm restructuring program. Third, the IMF is
providing technical assistance to the National Bank of Tajikistan. Additionally, some donors (e.g.,
EU/TACIS, UNDP and USAID) are providing technical assistance to selected agencies and ministries.
D. Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors
60.   The IMF has been active in helping the Government introduce the national currency and in
providing technical support in fiscal and monetary policy and in the area of price statistics. A series of
missions took place in 1995 and early 1996, the latest of which completed the negotiations with the
authorities for the stand-by arrangement which was approved by the Fund's Board on May 8, 1996.
The Fund is expected to provide additional support for Government's economic program via a second
stand-by arrangement and subsequently, with an ESAF (Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility).
The Bank has been coordinating closely with the Fund in the policy dialogue with the authorities and
in providing technical assistance. Other donors involved in Tajikistan and with which the Association
has been coordinating closely include the Aga Khan Foundation, EBRD, EU, UNDP. UNHCR,
UNICEF. and USAID.
E. Implementation Arrangements
61.   The borrower will be the Republic of Tajikistan as represented by the Ministry of Finance.
The implementation of the proposed Credit will be monitored by the recently established Committee
for Inplementing the Economic and Financial Program under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister.
Furthermore, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was created in the Prime Minister's Office to
coordinate with various Government agencies the implementation of the ARSP and IBTA Credits and
to provide IDA with the necessary information on the progress on credit implementation relating to
policy actions and utilization of credit proceeds. Agreement was reached on the staffing of this unit
and on the designation of its head - the First Deputy Chairman of the NBT.



-15-
62.   The proposed IDA Credit would be a one-tranche operation, amounting to SDR34.8 million.
The proceeds of the Credit will be deposited in a Ministry of Finance account at the NBT, to be
converted into Tajik rubles at the exchange rate prevailing on the day of deposit. Credit disbursement
provisions will be designed by the NBT. in consultation with IDA and the IMF, to support a market-
based auction and to ensure a smooth flow of funds into the market. The new IDA disbursement
procedures provide for credit disbursements without the need for evidence of imports of eligible goods.
The authorities will, however, undertake not to use the proceeds for items covered in the negative list
and to have the account audited upon IDA's request by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
F. Agreenents Reached
63.   Agreements were during reached Negotiations on: (a) the attached Letter of Development
Policy which outlines Government's reform program and plans for implementation: (b) operation of the
Project Implementation Unit which has been established in the Prime Minister's office; (c) phasing out
of crop restrictions; (d) standard negative list of goods precluded from financing under the proposed
Credit; and (e) accounting and audit arrangements.
64.   Additionally, the salient measures that were implemented prior to Board ar! (Annex 2 contains
a detailed list of the prior actions):
 A Presidential Decree issued on August 2. 1995 eliminating the state order system for
agricultural commodities (paras. 32 and 33);
D  A Presidential Decree issued on August 17, 1995 eliminating price controls on all
agricultural commodities , except bread and flour: controls on these two commodities were
eliminated on March 1. 1996 (para. 28);
*  A Presidential Decree issued on May 12, 1996 eliminating controls on agricultural imports
and exports (paras. 34 and 36) thereby allowing for greater private sector participation in
conunodity trading;
*  Revision of the Land Code- specifying selection criteria for recipients of land and
guaranteeing the full transferability of land access rights in order to create a legal
foundation for a transparent and equitable farm restructuring as well as a market in land
access rights - that will guide the land reform program and submitted the Code to the
Majlisi Oli on June 25, 1996 (para. 25);
*  Presidential Decrees issued on April 8 and June 25, 1996 stipulating that beginning on
May 1, 1996, a fee will be charged for irrigation water and outlining the planned
implementation of the cost recovery program that will result in more efficient use of water
resources (para. 30);
*  A new law on privatization adopted on November 4, 1995 that will improve the incentives
for privatization and thereby expedite the process (para. 37);
*  Adoption of measures that will improve targeting of the benefits (especially the bread
allowance) of the social support systems on the poorest groups with particular emphasis on
children (para. 42); and
*  Adoption of measures that wiUl improve the operation of the pension fund by paying a
minimum pension to all those eligible and distributing additional revenues proportional to
entitlements (para. 46) thereby increasing the viability of fund.



-16-
G. Benefits and Risks
65.   The proposed rehabilitation credit contains significant risks, but it is an operation that is
essential if Tajikistan's economy is to recover. Recognizing the importance of this operation and of
the reform program as a whole to political stability and economic recovery, there is strong Government
commitment to its successful implementation. Macroeconomic stabilization and initial structural
reforms, especially in agriculture, would help stop the decline in output and employment. Wages and
salaries could be paid regularly and their purchasing power would be protected as inflation is brought
under control. The Credit will help protect the poor from the adverse impact of adjustment through
adequate provisions in the budget for social welfare payments (bread and child allowances) and for
basic health care and education. In the long run, resumption of growth and employment would reduce
the country's widespread poverty.
66.   The main risks associated with the operation relate to the resumption of political and social
unrest, the limited capacity of implementation, and the opposition to reforms by some vested interests.
While most observers believe that political stability has increased in recent months. the environment is
still very fragile. At the root of the political instability are the ethnic tensions that continue to simmer
and occasionally boil over into various disturbances.  In order for these tensions to subside,
Government will need to manage them skillfully and at the same time foster an economic recovery.
With respect to implementation capacity, Tajikistan experienced a massive loss of human capital as a
result of the civil war. Since February 1992, more than 400,000 technical experts have left the
country. As a result, many institutions are operating with less than half the number of staff members
that were in place a few years ago and a greatly diminished capacity for planning, analysis, and
implementation. Finally, while there is widespread support for the reform process, it is not universal
support. For example, many of the managers of enterprises to be restructured or privatized may well
resist these processes which could delay the timetables that Government hopes to meet.
HL Recommendation
67.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Development Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 14, 1996



Annex I
Page I of13
txruIrp.3 T.IUUT*                                           Peea "yeauu  TamuuueC'aU
XyxymaT                                                OpasrTeJIeCTBO
LET= OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. Jan   D. Wolfsobn
Dew Mr. Wof
1.    gmb    i uidm  a S*ithb  1991. Tqjil$an bas mdaed snval shoc6 to
ib _smy. F., th brea-w of dte tw Soviet UWim (Ps) tiggmt thc collaps or inter-
aeubIe made u,adn w34iid dw kWr bu4gt vinsfu tdud T~jhsfimu rocai"e tiMs di
FSU. 5iMd dw civil Wm, UIidIUI ndRmMW 19M2 and lass  to ea  1993. =dskd in lt Lus
s     ve oodia g in 1992 ad 1993 caed major dmae to hfrbiacWe amad produive ausl
2.    T_m         hveusva       pmnd _         UaviLy with the result tda de amuv if
urly iao eq a*, - GM  Mby aoat 60) pem   baetwe  1991 mad 995. Predsy. mosl
iu. Am   . ePWnt  I les thu a          W oftSeir ca =pa  tand coto pn      t prod o (ih Vw
3VimdurPUci)           - ha bym y af   n the e     paiod (On c      q== *rj1im
MBOurns clape,ust aiteubropo md.wazharin datifly.Ur hum.. ml
mno  hee dewiortdW to fth puiet of iravwy,q both thu Ooww.uni budge and die ctrrAu
%Wuih wmrui omu 1995,h. mdaclimad adwan onl2.3sput"uCinApriland 0.5 parccti Mn a
5996.
3.     Fusd with thes probeM, the Govemamm  of Tajikicaa hai resued fth rerorm cfflai
Wuchi was swmnd ina L99 1. bu wM hzd wan abaudosed hrssuof dte civi VWa. pTcsSdcnMiuI Dccc6
No.lS(Doesmba  994)P pmnr die mYwayfo tpreparahan2of acom3prebenswc rrcnumpuogar
The adtadiit eform puapam. ub was approved by the parliamed (Mglws Ohi) on November 2.
"S109.Mopiums thedamicen  facing hu mcunbY s itnmoves tawwd am  lci-oricuted somonim.
and prvides a bued Outlin ofthe saps me&d to achiev esomon* refor  The rrorem progrwn
WMl be implmmemd in phase becwin 1991 and 2000.



Annex I
Page 2 of 13
4.     The Krfi program esmphaizs te 'sblizauo  of the ccono=w through improwd
_cciWuc _mnagmet and he UDplemenIt:ion of stbcursi changes that would resdlt in rapid
inmc     frei xog cp      arnis budge rveus, ad powlL Alihough dw phasing and
sequeme     r of tis pgam we still beins rinled its na tm (1995-1997) prioritis -M into
raw am_ ies: (a) stibibziig die      ecorinc si;wtio. (b) unptazng insLructurat rcronii of
11 agic _nl secor, (c) pr hazing A snalksc  enteaprises and beging th privatiksr    or
lapaci e_eqwise: ad (d) _mintainiog a mnimum level of socl procion.
SmbAmg tb.   --erIea.MOM
S.      Du     G     mveu s pmy objecties with rsped to ailizetion are to: (a) halt ihe
hp *i  a mdurel oput sd bo          (b) otan iafatioro   a prudent riscal ma mondam
POicy  d .(e)libumi  domeic  d awmal _    adI   We beliee that thse objectiuvs can be
MCIvm wit dth lwial _1d tolmica  upport of the Waft B.k ad IMF. Our speific tarts
wi& aMPi  to thus objectives w  a foliows. First, the delin a GDP is epected to slow down
in 1996. Seowd th   im   t is trg    to derae &o   amony avcrage of 4S percet
exparawaid Awing    1995 to 4 peent per mouth aftw Sep-ebe 1996. Third. again for a99%.
th budge deficit is lagedo _odem    to 5-6 perced  of GDP. of which 1.5 pecntage pwoms
wold be finad ft. dowec browgSd d  re st from overses boovwin. Fourth the
cwritammt deficit is tageed to de   to abom  12 p          o - of GDP mad thc -el owf
inemwdianulmu   wig be uniaine atm mimum of am mouth of imports excluding alumina.
6.     F         in cder to contai the budse deicit. in Jumy  1"9o Gowarnmeni --
rollowing eoultakis With dth IMF and th Blak - replaced the existing Laxes on conton and
a.bruwilh fdixdampu      e axes.  e Govamb   also amproed t;x collction cu fLbrs.
elimitd  ajor bx eemptios, intoded mdatc  w:craes lo pasonal izmc taxl iUtC.
tw id   an publiu    (haiL dericity. wa) to new-iarci levl rduced public
aCt     u s111ia  liMtd nBald n-es_ I  rearent spendin& Presmtly. hawever. both rc'cnue
and exPendra  ledl coionu to be quite low. Total rvene are exeted to epresent o1;y I.
pOrcenL of GDP il 1996 ad _PnIt-I es ju  below 19 perce.l  11irere. in 199%. ;hL
Govenm wll comuiue to asgsin a hi9 piriy to woiiing additioa rencau.
7.     Two esstial eldemes of Gomes mew approach to fiscal policy saar on chage-s
in dhc authrity of thc Ministry ofFuwme and our debt manageme  operatons. First. Govennm-cu
is currcntly in the process of ructuring the Ministry of Finance in order to providc ihc Ministr'
wih thbe abity to onto  cxpendit , oduct TresLy opatin. ad keep spnding vithmn
the budgeY targets. Second. reogzine that the debt bas gsrow  at an unutainable rate. tbe
Go 1m 1t   establisId a pciid deptbua ine Minisy of Finc to maSe Tajiklistan's
exurnal debL



Annex 1
Pape 3 of 13
B.                              _ OU2 iuir imeciasto focus in thu meis an nhancinl rinnial
discplie in the budking sow  and irci  markatbad b         _nwnme  of monctr% polics. Fix
axample,   mfla    ran for do Ntional Bank of Thj&ikisan' overdaf radlity. winch scrvcs as
a soure ofdsho-wrnliquidity, was incraud to 40 persc per month in October I 99 in oardr to
achievc positve real ts. Lower rae of i   won allowed  daritc to lowered the rule to 1.
percent per nacxh in Muh rad 10 peent in Jun 1996. Addidonally. after inouciion or die
national eeny in mid-May 1995, the .Alorities raised the interest rats on lO0N and deposits.
9.     Reeoizag that on  pu   relince can be placed on mad=-based lools of monwtan
policy. the muOtbnes introduced an Fobnry 1995, as a _cnry maur a sysum of bwik-
bunk  eit cilingp. Th  ceilinwe raied in Jmw 1995 Ed extnded unii Dember I 'FK
10.    At a  bsterta  it will be bcesmy to refx  dte scors buks to mnsure h      it
availability dos not conrain conmic growh  Anticitng this sLag of th rerorm prmni.
svr  pjpway actins wepamd FirSt. diagatc studis of d atoMII and savings banks
will bec inplised. Puticwsa im.    will be paid to Ao   mbu   thb instituin with primnar
r               1sp nby for adto icWlu.   d dis coonx. AWopImbn will eablish a specIalu n
(by the adof I996) hat will begpinovidg aguiblil credit an conmo rciial lens to the newly
crad leasehold frmr in time for 1997 mamma. Simltaeously, the NBT will be revising thc
oun~g aandirdw  to be applied to al cmn_ial bsoks. Second. in order to suppot do revised
aonin   mnmk u wel tIs  tighte DregulatorY *wmwolk las on he usr ofcolatrmm and
vAewl be 0dpeIomid -p. Third, as prepration for tie pamud nss5-pnvaiization
heuc, dth kll fmdiaiom fbr 11e Stock Exchang and the issue of securities will be rcvimmd.
Todljl asisanc is nieded in al these as an soon of it vall be prvided wnder the pnopwW
Bank IBTA prect
Agke'lral Seaer Refonm
IL    Tb aium  sector, Which lies at dhe heart of our coroaY. inrates aboUiL 51 percet
or cmplaont NWd 2s pern of  wac   The major cop is coto  which accounts rw overliiir
or Uta  rp prodUCtion wd a sigfian share of exot   The agicultu  secor is Ihsm a
depedent on impos of impts and   ea make  for th sale of cot  Fber.
1.   M e melc rm Ibrobhv   l henommy as auioe irant yas lavc becn ospeciallb'
drnugmg to ibis  or. The M ombiaion of crop specaliuzion and reiamce on exenawJ input ant
OuLpuL makets meat that te collapse of the inter-republic trading nd financing system- omtn
with Tajikist;n's civil wBr -- havc Icat tbc wayvs  rculWtrd sector isdalcd from it5s trdits
PO      nd I abl to mai_nti pr1990 kvel oproductio. Henmce tbe n%ojt umeodiajc probiLb
arec`tig 9thc peffo0mance of dis sacor is the availait   of im   inputs. This shortg  or
i*WAf ferilis mid chmials will be esd by a caabimta of actions: (a) liberalizing pric
On Iudc ruatns a- pat of dh reform prgram: (b) alowing pri  ateoton nxpores t rtAil
their foeig exchangc emui   and e) _ndasing the availability of foreip ecghang in put hroni



Annex 
Pag 4 of 13
tie dabrMG    of te A        ,c u Racovay and Social Pr ietn (ARSP) Credit.
13.   Aput bor di. i.uzwidte problm, Govmunent r1opiu shde lon -term impoil:nc
of dhe agicutu  nowr. Thorefor, in 1995    bug. ib mplArngi   a widot-rain, reforn
poams in de sactr. T    *ef - ponm is divided ba foulr pan: (a) renauctwirg of the
colleelive and stat fanu  (b) libuliun  e pricin& mkin8. aI trade environmans. 1c)
prvadg   dcoted agmbsl imWdou  and (d) updatdng hesp bo. Govan.mwmu is
seking fmal aid uwi   upp  im  ID/A to aslst with de imnpbnmcnation ordtw rerm
prom inldo fann of two cred  - ARSP an 113TA.
14., Iarm  Rm-t----mg RR         to te ui of  spopulation l   dinTajikWiu as.carce--
on sloq  the is la ib  a-fiftb of a bclar of arabl lad per pwm. At prent popul 1im
pressure an land ckley iodmi    tht d  aim  oine of futm  gobth in &Ie sctor will be the
i corwland      uwlercuivntion. Such an intmiicalim proce  will mn replacin,g
lpwae  aBate   d collto fl. with snul-acIel, prvatey patd fmmi.
15.    At pnat ft  ucw is sg pre=bamt contol by large-meulh state and collactivro (am
Gotimrmui,.howeai waien   dly Smgofe"ingim p im             n    a frm rsruunng
prog. *    m.The  iwiplhtaug       .prganam: () ug aspamand cquitabl cnteri
for sadi.3 dw. Wm wilraie lnd abcee uilhts. (1,) providing for comnpenaion to tlose
collstve fam    mbe  wh  de not receve lad awCc    &s; and (c) dveloping all exii
unachmi  bd b M dw _u      ied uumdbrability ofland acps lg  to tird pate.
16.    Meo up.ciflcml the Goverunmms LaA refm proga  will: (A) dimin  all collAvWe
faus by convoun   ei idno fam oepad by privat individuals or groups bhoding lire-long
i    able leses (b) el_mn   mot stat fnt by coivutg dum ino private cooparauivs fte
a peo am toied fou yewrs St whic poiw te fom er s          af    will be cauvatod anti
lebaold fm   (c)   uta land m. ris by isuin  liFe-long  iemitaimb leases. (d) guKantee
the full nd uwmuied rists to trasfr land use  ts to hird paies and esu   h  thes
rI - ms  ream steded wi dIe Gov _mw; (e) ensure tiat any househdolds tha. do not receive lan
wil rceiv adeauss m pm         eo  th sas    of dtw cllc      m. f md  () mupon the
of voluaily o     _nst  d Soup of inividud farlm.. The only umaining stac ouwd
f~ (,t.sabout 30,000 l.cw) wo  provide facilites for ativities tha tc Govaenmen rea
an ablipgain o nunage diabul, eg.. lkvmk breng and wsed proLuctio  until the privotc sector
is able lo ccomplsh uimts fiunction.
The  lifflog i    itabllk    can be feely trs   d to iW partic withot
reutic      and for opmnudn as dumed appopriae by th paies and dhccn:
cm be uwsd a ollAwal Upom being t1_ra      tie lesse is autornaLicaly eKtcdt tvr
dhe life ortbe new le eder.



Anne 1
Page 5 of 13
17    Given t b ep of able lad, it is impartmt that all parti t lh a potential claim to
laudaccc. right s_anerm     d eo siam dht is usedto nuocate laod rights. We are currnntlv
dsvdlapla  such  a_c isuu iaier the IBTA project and have taken tie following actios in
1995 and owly 1996, in consmultado wift IDA.
* Prpar  idg lim for a fim  msuthnig propam tht include: (a) using transparent aiid
eutdabcrilr fbr         faewtgfameto    ve land. (b)alowing unresiricted transferor oland
access rights: (c) provWing eqwtable compesation from thO existing assets of ihe coletcive
faMi rfarUli.hld  not reeving tad as neans of alowing these individuals to 'smain
productwe nmbwm of the ra cauty : aid (d ensbwig dial no involuntaay restlenmant
mn:ul 7h gllis    mu seom_ im dob Lad Cods dtt wa drafted in consultation unth IDA
A whi hu been apprved by GovenAme ad submitted to the Majlisi OLv ror its appnwal
on Jus 25. 1996.
l Is_ a deare wa dt ofcially esaublibed the principles an,wning the rum  rcructunng
mgrm idudg (a) aw ito_c  aivat all b-Jd crently cntrolled bv collective and state
(anu iato privas fum  oated  ier te tems of lifoe-lo  inheritable leases: (b) the use or
kiced Lca lAd Commoit  to alloc        assets of stae and collective farms amonj, di
eligible recipients a defined Io te Lnd Code and for ensuring dui. in situations utce In.:re
isntl m=  s. 1usd for all membs of the fam, thosaw n,   iduals or households not receiving
lmd, will receive fair ad dequa  compesation; nd (C) the ciminalion of all land .me
fstrietioBs.
Piqu d ta of rA     e for a stud h at will spelt out thic hihanisms for implimenting the
*ed the  uaber of leaseholdfarmers by 3000 by reallocating irigae land cu tlv in
ii byeitdhr siior collioivhui, allaocd SO,000 bectares of lad to nal households ihat
pm'mr ud eite vay litle or no land, snd inrsad individual and group land access rights
(via shbo  mo  leases) to moe din 150,000 beare of staw and collective farn ]und.
If.   Adlimioall. as put ofdie fta  restructuring prgram Govwnum  will rcaffirm the ngrel
of ral  umolds to bhld tdeir hons ad asoated househld plots as pnvalc propcIth
Furher. COverrnt bhs deiminaded al 1ud use resriction on leased andlor manacgd land. in
additiomGovcmm  will rem ove lad use reiCt       co oll ulsd by the end or 1997.
19.     Ir g h          Nd Reduing Subidie. Prior to June 1993. the purchase pnrc for
dl aVrcltr commditi waee  xed by GovenuL Since then Govnmnt has lbcraliwd
rnn prlm in It ec=oM  ad el;m_ud pice cuouos on tdl agriltl conmmoditics cffeive:
Jmusay 1. 1996. In Febrauy 1996, GCovmrne   took the politally dilicuk ansion of abolishing
the subsihiy an grain an bred production.



Annex 1
Pagc 6 or 13
20.    Prior to 1996, the prouer price of cotton was set by GovemMenL and was supposcd Io hc
paid in two installmcnts. in recent yeas, the second payment. -- which Was Lo bc nmadc na1cr ilic
precise export camings and costs are known- has not been made. This rcsulicd in a ll lc k  1 ticl
implicit taxation of producers and when combined with the low produccr pnce paid % ta thi lfirI
payment scrved to disouage conan pducdon. At the beging of the 1995 scason. thc prduccr
price for a ton of raw cotn was TRI 1, 400 per ton or approximatcly 13 percnt or thc uorld pracx
21.    In order lo restorhe incentives for producing cotton. GovenmmenL has implcmcni:d ilic
fowring measures.
*  In October 1995, Government icrased the producer price for raw couon procurcd tlirtitili
GlJavchlopkoprom during the 1995 hainst season to a minimum of TR34.000 pcr ton ( %11us.Z
is atIcast 26 peet of .he export price). Cotton procurement pricos will be fully libcraiu,.&d
for thc 1996 cotton harvest season as stated in the Decree 296 (AugusL 2. 1995).
*  Undl rntJy, crm  wu subjed to thrc taxes -xcise mx of 30.5 pcrcont. VAT of t2 port.nl.
a-id a specal aX of ' pereL ID addition, in June 1995 Govemrnent introduccd a 50 pcreni
export tax on cotton oot exported through Glavchlopkopromn In Janunrv 1996 CiGo crnnnt
eliminaed all xisting tesm and insed introduced a fixed tax on cotton toLaling US S '.7
mnilla permnon ;. Wit the introduction of this tax. the depdenc, of Governmcnt revcnLIc 01i
couon axati  will continue to be substanual. but will dedcin ovcr timr as other r-vmnuc
sources are developed.
22. Aliouh Taj&Lv bas altundt water resouces. at present it consunes only about 17 pacrin
of the estimated volume of wate flowing through the cotry. The rest lows to flneghbonla
counries wnder Lhe terms of an existing water agreetnenL Teb provision or frcc waLcr for donicstic
irrigation of sta  and colective foims and for expom to neighboring staws is costly. Conscquent k.
the GCovani has designed ic couaiawon-aith IDA. and begun implementing of a  lacr pri&.rg
schcme for irrigation tat wil acieve fuil cost recovery by 1998. Further implcmcnrtion ol Jiis
program will be done in coulitation with IDA and the IMF.
23.    Liberalizing Marketing and Trade. Prior to June 1993. all state ordcrs ror ag ncuftural
commaodities were sma at 100 pacL I 1993, however, the Govement began liberaIi,itin the
m uareting awirm t by reducig the shar sold on state order and allowing producers to sel i hc
balanct  marketprics This chng,comb    with les vigorous enforcnemnt osorem marhLuzi: -
regulations, has resulted in great privae secor markcting activity for some commoditics. : S
fruiLs and veseables.
24.   s part of traue liberazation, the Minist. of Economy wi rstricL itS regulation or trad:
conu:aCs to a sirnple auditing procedure which should apply to state conuacts whothor for rorc'ig:
or domesic trade. As pan of Govennt's liberlizaftion program, we implcmentcd the folloing,



Annx I
Page 7 of 13
tw mmi au lbe 1995: (a) inddu  md fms weze allowed to umpo apicultural inpus amid
cxpmagiwltu1 amioii wvidt a ken.; and (b) oxpot taxes and duties on all agricultural
comnmodines, except cotton, uwe elkminated.
25. Additnaly Govam t ibealied cotton marlaing by reducing purchas or cotion onl stca
order from 90 paeent to 70 percent fir he 199s crop san. Unfoutunhtely. adruinilfMiva
problems prevted this mcuure fitm being  ilemeted conect. As a rcsulL mam, producers
we not puritted to mtai 30 puemtoftieirpWdcuionAs COmpesationL Glavchlopkoprom paid
cotton produces the  cdFnce betwe   the   unt they receivd from  sawcs through
Gavlomkoprom and what would have been realized had thy sold though privic channdim. The
value of dc  cmpn      y paym       was TR 1.2 bilLioo and will eve as anoher hicenive r.w
incraied w-m p-adm_imi dig dft    uo tming seaso. In order to ausu, diat produccm havc fiull
NWd urestricted acm  w de companaim paymnts made by Galwe              uil as ather
reveues prid to prOuGovemnmut ppared appropriate gd e tr banls.
Fthr, Govn=m   rm  its i ionS to alow producer to sell all or tir ctn throu
private mrkedting chanels beinning wth th 1996 harvt.
26. IOcIer 1995.sam sofn uin t Glvcopkopwm proides gning services crf
the 199S ceo    vee on cotrauct to cotton prduces for a competitvc rce. Go%wvmnt%
abpted guidelines to came ta ginng fee do not ecd 20 pcnt of wi produce priec or
raw colom These guddim will be continud ntil therm is sufficent conpotiton in die guwain
of cotion to ensue competitive prics.
27. To suppt th fictianin Of t feip Wicue audo. market while mnaintaining appropnat:
incentives for expowt activities, expus have been almwed re*e1 to havc dirc acccs- %s
ferign exchange to finance heir imponr equirmem    As of Febumy 1996. Gocronwm, iMaC
conpletely ciminae export surmdr requiement.
4
2.    Pr.cema         M      vrket   Cminmel.. The public sectors control of procsi  and
marking channes will be gradually blisrd to uen_ae pnvazc sector dcedopmcmi. To
enamgecinpbun.we will begtheprivatizatuo proceps for selected insitutionsl b-:
Designing and beginig      nto  -by June 1997 - of a public procuemcnt system  tw
be developed under a World Bank IDF gmnt) based on cowpetitive bids for Govcrnnism
purchascs of commodities and services
Calcng a sudy of       hploFrmi by April 1997 tha will lad to its rasucturing by d-
end of 1997; and



*nnx I
Page 8 of 13
Priviin uneof he 26 to     n g   ses cuntly under ue corol of Glavchlopkwproni r
the Muniy of Agicure during 1996 and another 10 during 1997.
The Soeil Ssaely Net
29.  T^idu WM dhe p      1 republei in the FSU, a siuato that has bean grcatly aggraaicd
* McMyYms bYthd shap coic dclinc and the Gvil w.  Aldugh the pnrvalanec or posvnet
in Tajikistan is hard to  mae precssly, it is cear tha  rge pa ol dhe population sulMr rrom
scnous povaty.
30.  Goveae  pl.to r         povryhugh a thre pt stegy thatemphasizs gr, th.
protecn expaddro  heal and education servces  and mcg tercted intcntuin. We
believe tha the reform prgam, which is being supptd by the ARSP and die Standby
ArruieAut with the IMF, provides e banis for renewed gowtb mough both macroeconoic
A&duim    aid srzutil efous. However, given the extreely low level of income, th collairw
of inherited ocial pr_ms, id th high tmitima soci cot or trorm measures. cvcn a
redli seyti    m wmicArwM  ohavw a limited ipact on the extent of poverty in Ihe shun-
tcrzL Thauofe. Gover_mn is nying to aciev a balance betwe dt need for soctal assistanc;
as wb al is msment in education ad heat and a sevrly consined budgcL
31.    rtabctig H h anmd thuaoimo Svc.. Thesocond par ordie Governmen0s stratL',
for addessing poverty us to pro-ect esmedium on basic health care and prinay educaion - lic
two svxi  tht mst affect dth poor. Sinc 1992, exeitu  on cducation and health dcdincd
in both ubrauta and  telaive  The combind sha  of(dt   two sectos in GDP was 17 pcamnt
in 1992 and is es_maed at 6-7 percent of a much salkr GDP  r 1995. As a cousqucre.
supplies ae scarce and wagp paymet hv beau interruptd. Highly qualified sff continue to
leave bolh sectors. School atendance is ng, and indicars show a worsening or ie nation's
ealthb, apecialy in dhe rual aras. 'hee is a pressing need for eegaqncy meurs in then tv.; a
sectors, incldig ealy effors to improve te supply of input such as textbooks and basic drugn
At present. ther is a sevee sota  of bod. items in the count.
32.  In de dart- m, Govmnment's pnoty as to ensure th thes sects receive a rcasonable
share of the highly consraimcd budget Thus, we aflocated at least aefilth of the 199(. budga
(Janay to December) to socidl  t;: 14.5 pct for a tuon (aout TR 7.2 billion) and six
percent frbeal  (aboutTR 3 biUio.) The allocas wiN be used to fuc roinonorcrhicaI
drugs and  xtbooks and paymes of wa  and salaries. Given the scariv of thc budga
constraint. additional imports of drugs wil continue to be fianced by donos (c.g. WHO and
UNICEF) and NGOs.
33.   In the   i _n thee is ed for fundametal stncturl dc     s in the social scors
to increase   f the  ofsa     d o dio run  ses  of 1kumein  Inthis conLt we intend
to seek fnacia and tchnica support fa. IDA and othr douors to forultc and unWvcncm a



Annex I
Page 9 of 13
social sewtor reform prgram in 1998. Some progress is alrady being madc by both the Mlinistr%
of Health oid sh Minsisy of Jducatioi  but the immndia  problem or traing to iina,ice andl
maii   eMatng           mtodmnietthae tite and attention fofficials. The M*madium-
lei issues inJclde following;
*  K.y usiiuUlu_   in die htealit soctrinclude rational   staff and facilities. rcfonming tc
procwement md uiization of phamcuicals, strengthening the training of health worlkcrs.
inroducigg new public health progams, dompressing  saarics. and refogming  dic
mu.gemeint of dte saevces.
*  I.in udecatiort sor, structral isu  icuk  raionaliig schools and stafl refornsing dii:
cuniouwn .dmtlizf  sdhool uumnagenL th diversitfig sources of financing, anld
34.       Ta,edSocial I vi'- Taratd itvenio  consist or providing additional
social support to the most vlnerable gwoups of the society throuh such mechanisms as cash
nfews - pe lzey fr pusion and bread pc       enns. ntitional programs. and public
Waft pl_m. i nview of de       gvel of hiddena d open uneinplyme  and also because
p  ad f.nu ruucwiug will lead to furhwer irease in unpl        additional job
atin mumum wil be nocessy. Given thk scarce finnca resources and thc widespread
pvet in Tujkisu. specific criteria have been developed to sbarpeu our targeting on die nxL%
vulwab,oposp. AAdWdo  azabtW work also needs to be carried out to shod morm ig8bl on dth
profle of the poor in Tailt un, and to fiuther fcw srategies for povery reduction.
35.   All            Su_  Under its current reform prograx. the Govcrnnncml has bq;in
torieduboth aUwnces  Adsbides mid trlt them beter. The bulk of th subsidies %re for
bread produici  na ad imgaionL  To protc  the poor Grna liberalization of
tnsportation prices, dh Gove_nmt will explore in 1996 providing  ansportation vouchers It
- soaps.
36.    11 mt impornt dlemt  of the soid saft  net in Tajikistan is due bread allowanc. .
At aret brd pnm d. bred Aadwc level covers about 45 percent of an average houschold s
mthl blred c            Prier to mid-May 199s5 the Govemmnt provided a univrsl bread
allowaice of l,800 Russian nbles for ech cie (representing 45 porcnt or GDP in 1994).
F      _, bmead proctio wa beavily subsidzed (8.4 percent of GDP in 1994). In Juh- 1995
tis subsidy aounted to halfthe price of a loaf of bread. This was an expensive univcrsal subsid-
which did litle to taret ke poor.
37.   In Augt 199S. bolt bred cnuption alowaines ad production subsidics '%e replaced
by a trgtted bred allowance. In addon, child allowances wee introduced. On March 1. l'JQ)(l.
tdo Gowinmn libaizid fiy de pri=c of brad and lOm aod combine bread conpcnsation nd
cld ailLowu   imto ngle socia wfare paymtnT  social welf  paymnt. which amouuts th
TRSOO per m h, was targeted to d ren under 16 years old (for households with per capita



A1nexI
Page 10 of 13
nic an    ding r_nwice the minimum wag), non-woriang pcnsionc  whose pcnsions arc h0mo'
twice nt ximurm wage, registered uneznp1qyad wmorkrs nd the disabled. The pmusent tarSclinj
s)t  zi subject to improvemcat as it is based on the 1993 household survey which ovctistniai%c;
dextacatof poverty In the omutry. The Govermment agred to conduct a new houschold survcy to
identify Lhe povezty profle and the charactistics of vulnemble poups.
38.   In ft 1996 budget. Government allocated TR7.8 billion for social welraic compcsLuationi.
This Aclam  as   I.4 uuilm of beficarie. Shouldt th number of bcncficiarics provc: w ob-
hiher thin  exp d, t  Covernmet will in causutadon with MDA. adopt corrnive mmrrs kit
kop th toul arount of allow;aces within die budget ;llocaio L
39.   Pe_tinn Sadal Trmmnm        and 2=1            The thmeecmu-budrc1wr funrds.
vhich were setL up in 1991 to elae te larsocial ransfer rw  the Soviet c Union. Cacescrious
financing problems.  he curat ecoomic and financial siuon provides no oppontiily k r
beliving dint the receipts of de fuids vil equal commtments Thus. the pczzsion svstem nedsN to
bc u nimmal:y rfored wo create an effcive and usuminable socIal safet neL As a tcmpcirwx
_casr, in June 1996. Govenwmt limited the value of pcuosi  in ordcr to cnsurc g=iaIcr
guarit in payment. Govrnmt agreed to limit the mothy  psynt Lo th amount or actu.a
evmw colicou. Al pensioners will- be paid at thc minimum ran  Tbc monthiv surplus in thc
Pention Fund ir any. will be distr*bed o ffie eigible pensions proportion3acl to their
ntdUcmcnts. but will ot excee such entidents. Any arrears that are acewnulated mill k
cacled aL the end of each quter.
40.   A moe effective provisio of the benfits require ir  the adinisttion or social
hisn_rzo   To achieve dtisr, we took th fllow    Sps as _efetd in the budge lw approv-cd ty
Pliamcn in June 19?6: (a) cosoldate the collction of aUi payl taxes und  the responsibility
ofa gk agaW. (b) cemralize  e collection and allocation of Pnsion Fund revenues to mnaigai%
regona dispartes. 
41.   Xhine   iaL    IinJ      bas bee unable to  nea its  comnimts in r.cm  wr.
utlcinut we smeYOS by Yt-naiion  Sandards andg rgm e, wh  in ope n. Lo CXCsivC
uw oflirnited bla   cae   . S;dk l    benft provide up 0 I 00 percent ora worker' s caran
ror up to 4 moths and binh Vants we provided for up to &fc childen In addition. half or dhw
gadng S unatoruzns _ i  Tsjinm pvde resot and health car faciliuics. but the demand is vcsy
low. nUS. the fllowing, shrt-  wasues haVe been introduced in -1996: nuhance rvecmt;
collecticc, limit the benefits for using sanotorium services, and reduce mximum sicd Icf've
enitlemcnt to one mouth per year. In the longer rm. sidcnss and matemniy leavc benefits mwill he:
prodd by coa _cd =axprUses rade  than by the prcse  sysiau orceauEl pooling. mud thc ta.x
rate will be lowerd to enable entepis  to cover thes benfis



Annex 1
Page II ol13
42.   R      _indig thC E m"WnLEu  tbc Govarmet discontinued imancing wagc subsidlc;
paid for mintaining jobs in finagiaUy dis&ued entupi  and allocaLed in the budget lor I 'i'h.
TR ISO nilion Lo finance public works programs.
43.   S      m       Jbcreai  The merof new  omul sectorjobs being craLcd isqunc
wall, wea the labor fome is growing rapidly. In otder words, the problem of under- andl Ul.
.nploymiit uis umffik   o be eliiatod soon and the exte  of the challenge is cicar. Whilc uhcre arc
swvaul supplmntaryjob4Xation progms  being canied out. m the aggregate. thcs prograini arc
small coempared w the challnss facing TajikistLa
44.    The keyi    cn   the fiwe nee forjob ceaon and particulry ihc balanrc teLkmccn
aacviofdiflcrkinds. Atpoen  uchoafttea lashsmceffort issLill esswailly rcl ct'
in n-aw. but there is a growing mnoev towards more deveo l projecs. While fiood decit
contia  in the county, the will nmain a need for soe foo-for-work programs and there is s
plet of rehubilitanon work to be done Te is also anm2ssive need for the development or s;all-
scale ciedit programs, but such programs wAl require the training of suitable local staf. Otlwr
posibilities incude the developmmt of s6cial funds, and teo UNDP is presently considCnng lhC
deig ofsuch a project This We of approc is suitable, patculary as a considcrabic amnotnt uf
reabilitaion and recoastrucion work (e-S, roads bndgs schools and clics)ncds eo be donc
4S.   Govutent has taki mad   step to reduce pverty by ppWing with rnanacal ;uad
ehnc  suppt &om MDA, a Pilt Povy Aeviaon ProjcL The prci naturc of this pri.sIcu
manis to br defined, but the pbcc wl lely seek to provide trged incme rsrs to io%-
iowa     hotebolds posibly via a public wart  program  orgaized aoud   inrrastructurw
ashabllitadL RIopizng thie limited impl ntion capacity in Govwnment and rgent .od rLtr
employment apporwanues. this projea would rely exensively on NCOOs for implemncitaon.
46.   P     _overty Ama ummem    of acduatea nimthepreparaion ora cnprchcntsivc
poety redmuction srtg would take me and need tchncl suppo  The objeuvivc would be to
identify the profile of poverty ad  ctar     of vulnerable srups in Tajikistan md cstablish
a fibudmfor nionitarin cdaes in povet. For this, suey wiD be carried out by Deceimlber
1996 under the Japan   PHID gaLt On the basis of this wk a Poverty Assessment %ill be
prep.d, in cmosultation with DA, in 1997.
Priva?lnadou Program
47.         Govobjective for th privaiaion program is to inccas th oprataonal
efficiuvy of all firzs in he wmmny. To dae only seven pecWt of sme.Owned cnacrpriscs have
bz pivd  This poo Puftm._ is due to  val fatos. but mom notably to a dericient legal
imno  To speod up the pnvution po   the Majlisi Oli adpte on Novebe 4.1995 a
Privzion lamvw th  will empower th  SPC to frmiulatc mad unplemem a comprohensacw



Annex 1
Page 12 of 13
privetization propan. The IDA-supported IBTA projeeL will bc csSLUal for the succaa of or is
cuevor.
41.       The pnvztizai  program will identify the entaprnses to be pnvatizd. machod t.r
pivatizebon (auction, a joint stod ma pzivatizaon), and timetabl. Additional ncasurcs tilal
will be taken in 1996 include: t elimination of the imposition of proits restrictions rclat.d d
privatized enlupdse: the ijtoduion of legislatko to provide a rmxwcil incntuive 1o the s.'w-
owned anterprics to seal or le tdeir vacant real estate space and unused equipincnI Lo pril %
entrpresr tdroug th rcidy establsh  National Real Estate Exdchnge
49.    A       l support from thc Bank Group in implenenting the privatiz;ion program , ill
be neded over the naext two year. Pror t hat, we will privaize all of lhe cotton Sinnerics b~ ilt
cadof 1998 with nine being pri-Mizedi n 1996, tn in 1997, and see in I99B. Fwthr. wvc ha%s
c-mn   ind astudy fA aidrs               ing option for Glavchopkopron as par. of 'iI,
IBTA project and will comple  the restucting of Glavchopkoprom by the cad of It): 7
Additionally. w  will prvatize half of du amall-scale enteises (i.e.. those with less tia.. It l
employ) by the end 1996 and the balance by 1997.
sO.    Tvupmdin ih lag Frunrisrk, Some progres  has been made in establishing dhc hb;'si
leg rfoundaior (a mul.ct omy. Howew. tli body of legisation is. in genral. weal in it,
promt-o of prive pp   nrg   icmple in its eaboration of procdwres and rcgulations.. autn
leaves considerbl laitude for continued stle interivention in priva  comarcial aci%itiui
including saialhuc. Govan pw      d did inadequacy ofthexisting leSislaion and adopted.
as suted above  d   a  ma step, a lw an pvatizadon. By the end of 1997. GoCm eunt mill
improve the legal frmework fr pivate acw develpmnt by amending existing commercial
eSislatido  (conunr    cod) to coform to the requireM    of a market economy. by audpiiai
guet and suIt   laud bytiug Ut law o pmpeny rightL Fulhcmor lega provn;ms."
wiRl be made for business fbiures, incuding liquidaion of &ssets.
luuplumtatiom
51.   To fadist t imp        a f r 3e   psopa andthworkwiththeWorld Bank tIv
Govammen      _ dsubEsW a ARPct hopkmwbtion (tOMl)in ds therme bMi's Ofrncrheadd kt
the Fis Dwxaty Chrma_ of NST. The PIR is mup=.Ible fr cwardmag and iamorig m   hc
.uatima onbado Ui - I ogunff=W  by the ARSP and MTA = s. It win alo p-o u&
do c B&idah to nmesuy infxnuican ne piopeus ofi      VP u     ofboath opeais An imer-
agency Su=ing CommniU  vastabUsed comprisiag of rePyuuMv of sl rlevan Govenmwzu



AninexI
Poe 13 of 13
_pmin euuaemd wi& de         t     ef auoJDAe pt .   11. loc wrp_maIiiXordw
WwM Bkshualo& a   nraabf6 C.mwm
52     aFl*. I would ID tod   that tdis GoDmLV; y w  poliy erhangas. hdcb
ad camio    auhiAdin tis   a  an iqpor=  ap In car bxder ad iwmveribk modium
tam eiorm svwagy . The mos im.di_t ns  up wil be pspamim fw de X
Cmmuuhazive Garou meing sa us d of October. With apon  h IDA. we plu w develop a
pmv-foflmhc anb ma e mid bmudt  suppat Xa wN encamp                to ilrum lhticir
uOppmRJ for uw ufasm prauu
A       szb
of .4 WOW



Annx 2
Page 1 Of 6
Republic of Tajikistan
Agricultural Recovery and Socal Protection Credit
Policy Matrix
Objeedtv         |            Bd 4n           |e                                   Actions tobe ImpUteunder theuCr diw   t C_edt                                            Ag_q
L Agrtcuftrl Sector
1. Piig Policy
Eliie price controls,    Mod piices hve bean lib ized       Prfor Aecldo: Eliminte price controls on all aicultural counz ie, including bread, flour, gn, silk and  Mitsy of Fm-cu, Minsby of
ad ramo  susidie that    since Alme 1993. As ofJue 1995     coto  (By Affraisa)l                                                                                Ecnomy, MinistyofAgricultur
distowt iwsoedives utom    subsidies wer recte to bmad and   Sttus: Inaplented Decree 527 daed 3117/95 stipulate that ifli, cotton andwimat will be decnrolled effbetive
flour, wdaer forirrigatioa, fuels for  lnuary 1, 1996. Cotols en bred ad flour pxices wre paialrly eliinat on Deceber11, 1995 by
ridens al heung and munidpal      Predediad dece  Full libelization o(the two commodities var auned on Mwrch 1, 1996.
C(ovamtd *prua deaft poliq        Pdrr Acdon:  bn   Om prodducer pice for raw cotton prdtough Glavehlopkcproo in 1995 hat             MnistryOffAiculrte,
pape for pricing ofmirgation water    sason fiom TRI 1,400 per tn to at lead TR34,000 per ton (By October 1995)                       GlavsWolkopoxn
that condd a step toward full     Statu: Imnplauitud  Mmeproducerprice for rw caton was icased by Decee 608 (October 7. 1995) whii
cod ofTeovIy. Theprioradlonis   irdexed the local curny price for raw cttn to exchange rat depdain
intended to refine Ihe policy ad
speed up its inplarenaation       Prior Acdo., Ddigm, in agemie   with IDA, and begin the phaed implementation faf waer pricing    e fcr    Mioiy of Waer Resrc,
inigpon for acheving fall codt uucesry (By Negotidaions)                                           Miniy of Agcut
tut: bnlaneWd GOovamngent isued Decree 40 (Apr  , 1996) stiutigllaatbegiWningonMy 1,1996 a
feewill bedargedforsrigtos water. Deee 21 (June 25,1996) otlins the ped impleatin of
Dr  466 and requs the Miniry ofWar Reuces to prep  co          s whth al u    of nigdiwe
diputigdmp
2. Maketing and Thade Pao;cy
Phase mg the dae order    Priorto 1993, the date order for all    Prfor Action: Eliminae the state oerslwsem for a11 agricultmul c euniaditim, except cotn Reduce the  Misty  ofEcmay. mistryof
ystem, educe Oovnent   produiction was 100 percent but       purchases ofcottonn ndate order frem 90 to 70 percent for the 1095 crp sson andta zero forthe 1996 crp  Agriculture
onrtols onagricural       beginning in 1993. t share on ate    seasn (By Appril).*
exports, and hmprove access   order was rd&ced Udually, the  Status: Emplemented Tha was initialy implemeanted under Decree 295 (Augut 2,1995), howeve, ausu
to and allocation offoreigp   state order sydem uhas weae    as  Decee (No. 692, November 20, 1995 and No. 407, February 10, 1996) wu intapted to mean thathe hare of
exchp.           h        i entremeet on sumi conoditlcs   con fibereine bythe producrs clculted on basi ofpl aad 0 utrut ralr than ac outL    a ms ult.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Objectives                    Background                                            Actlon to be implemented under the Credit                                    Impteameng Agenc
(eg., uit ad vegetAbles)           producen retained only about 3,500 tons of cotton ntead ofthe edimated 40,000 tons hd the calculation been
diminished. Nanethels, e sstem     done corey. Consquelutly, Glavchlopkoprom ha speed to a ompenstion scham under which it will pay tho
has coti'nued to determine         producets (either in foreign exchange or local currency) the difference between revenue that would have been
production decisions for Impount   received had the calculation been done coencly and actually received. Glavchlopkoprom mad the supplemental
crops, e.g., cotton                payment (totalling $4 million) before July 1, 1996. Additionally, Government has provided ausurances that
producer. are able to deposit the supplemary pymets in accounts with Agoprombank and use these funds to
purchase foreign exchangp on the auctionL
Following s briefperiod oftrade    Prior Actlon: Allow individuals and fmnu to bipoet agriculturl inputs and export agricultnl commnodities  Misryof Agraire,
liberalization in 1992, controls and  withut a license. (By Apprisal)                                                                   Olavkhlopkopwom
restrictions were reinposed larey  Status: mnplemented. Licensing requirments for the hinmt ofaicultural inputs and the expet ofagricultural
onexoU. In May 1995 the gCods      commodities (except cotto  tobacco andsilk) were abolished lae in 1995. Resolution 15 (Januay 11, 1996)
subject to export quotas wer reduced   reimposed an expod ban on sesvral agriculual commodities, including paiz livedock and vegetble oiL Decee
to only two sluminun ad coon.      200 (May 12, 1996) amended Resolution 15 to eimintethe export ban on thse agliculturl commoditieL
Prior Action: PreVare terms of reference for the deg and implanentation of a procuremert system (to be  Mirsty ofFuiance and Ministry
developed under a World Dank IDF gad) based on competitive bids for pvenunent purchas of goods and   ofEcaniy
rwvicet (By Appaal)
Satus: Implemented.
On May 10, 1995 anew national      Prtor Action: Allow exportas of cotton to retain at least 70 peratoftoheir expost ewinig in foreign exchnge  Naional Dank ofTajikian
currency (lajik tuble) was         aecounts (By Appraisal).'
Introduced.   June 1995,a limited    Status: Implemented Resolution 407 (Feibruay 10,1996) eliminates the surrender requirement for foreign
interbank weekly exchange sudion   exchange In addition, Agroprombank now establiss accounts denominated irn foreigp exchange for any individual
system was also introduced, but    or enterprise.
wweked only inmntty during
ae 1995. Expoet adiot              PriorAction: Eliminateexptaxes andduties on allalicuturaonusodities,exceptcottoL Forcoton,            Misy ofFianc and MiStry
controk alog wihh resrictionson    Govemment wil reucedthe exporttaxfromitsexitinglevelof50 peractto 10-15 percent on all on expons      of Econmy
private acoun  dnomint   in        (By Appraisal).
felp axdangt have served a a       Status: Inplemented. Resolution 222 (Februay 1, 1996) ipwes a prsmptiv tax on cotton fibr (S2.7  ilion
restriction to private trsde       per monh) and exempts cotton fiber frOnt he VAT, exse a   specdal tax wvh the result th  the effective tax on
c        is lower.
3.     lm
Cee tbe bads ofmmre        Glavdalopkoromhu amonoply on   Plar Aedleu Prepare ternm of reference, aceptaeto I)A, for the elabwati  ofatimnd action pln (to be    Mitbay Qf re , SPC
efficiS.dmltw  ua          cottprocenuon    mut      d        carened out ider the World Dank IOTA projectfor gIw prlvization of0lawbblpkoprom (By Aprisal)
eeof    san             J   eS t  lIpled
*Ad ins und n  unighD SWdi     ragstn



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
Ohjeetlves  Background                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Actfons to be Impimemened under lt. Credi                          ImpleMattbg Agenc
Prior Acton: Prepare atimtble, in ag*est with IDA, f(rbhe privatizaion of coon gimeries cinarenly under    olavcllqpkopu  sC
the motrol of Glavdebopkeproen or the Ministry of Awiagltum (By Appraisal)
Status: Resolution 203 (May 20,1996) calls ider alia foribs privtizion ofnin ginries in 1996 and 10 in
1997.
PriorAdtin: Adopt guidelines that aur  that Glavcldopkcpm provides  ming services forthe 1995 cotton  Glawchlopkoprom
harvest on contrad to coton produers fora fee not to exceed 20 pearnt ofthe producer price of raw coon (By
Odober 195).
Status: Inplemented.
Goverment has prepared a drft      Pror Action: Formulate a ram restictuing programy hF                                                   Ministy of Agriulture
farm retrdicuring promgm that has    (a) preparing guidelines for the restructuring, satisfactory to IDA, tht includes plans for selecting farnie. to receive
served as the basis for a pilot    land, mechanisrs for allowing transfer of land access rights, an srrangerrents for inreasing thc number of
restactuting programr  Goverment   leasehold fCnmns (By Appraisal)
is currently in the process ofrevising    Status: ImnplementeeL Article 69 ofthe draft Land Code identifies the nain criteria (age and fanming experience)
that program in light of experience  for election of collective fanns members to receive land leasa. In cases wie there is insufricient land the
and comments received frotn the    allocation will be by Local (rayon) Land Comnittees (LLCs) The LLCs will be responsble for allocating land and
Bank. Goverunmu t has identiried   for designing compenastion packages for those not receiving land. The compenstion packag  will be a mix ofnon-
specific are  ofthe farn           land fan assets, nron-fan assets, and fr cal suets A National Land Conunittee (NLC) will provide gudace to
restuctinring program in which it  the LLCs and ha apeals Articl 73 ofthe draft Land Code states tht leaehold  aneare blto freely
requirs technical assistance.      tramfer the right of use oftheir land to any persn or goup of persons in exchange for rmory orother
cornpensatio' Decree 279 (June 25,1996) submits tbe land Code to the MajIsi Oil for approval
(b) issuing a decree tht officially establisl the principles and guidelines for die fann rstrucuring promg   (By
Negtiatiors)
Status Implemented. Decree 522 (June 25, 1996) identifies the principles ofthe land reform popmn
(c) preparing tea ofreference for an action plan oo be undeaken under the World Bank TA project) for
inpleienting the farn rcstructuring program (By Negotiiotion4
Status: bInplaentd
Atotal of 3000long lenn inheritable    PiorAcion: Iesthe nurnberofleasehold he  bya miiu of 5,000 (accou g forabout 25.000                Mistry of(Agiuz
leases have been issued since 1994  hedares of irrigated land) by allocating igated land cunentlyinuse by eher statsor oletive frms (By
wih about two-hirds of these       Negotiations)
approvedsince mid-1995.            Status: InpleentdGw        mthbuetabrt   aMadtioa l 3000Ibtiglsae             eams ly  1995. In
elSsitro,tbkmn       mocnuln ttmkaseson        100,000behds  tof   vi  lymOm       dby tge  and
oolletti      RPer.wderDecree(698Novamber22, 1995) Cown4pth previedilduisrido 50,O z lfr
hewdno&ttlspminlydEduotbaw in wayorfrurffldht1  (Comequeay, although Govrm bhasant
increased the number of leasehold f arme  by ecly the antnbergruede inthse prior action, thas Stf led the
spirit ofth prior aio by finessing individual and grup hadaccen, tig7s on &me'ha 150,000 bFdart
Adctio  isbtaki undwr th IMP Stead-by mnsganat



Annex 2
Pag 4 of 6
ObJecttva         |           Background                                            Actions to be Implemented under the CredUi                                   Itpmettg Agemq
4. Legal Framewok
Develop a legal framework    Severas laws dealing with       Prior Action: Adopt a new law, silsfkctory to IDA. on privatization. The new kgislalive famework should  Stile Prefy CotniUel
to supposti maskt-based    privatization and PSD wee adopted    empower the State Property Conunittee to, inter als, selec enterpris to be privatized and intoduce broad public  mistzy ofFVbmc  Minsyof
ecmonmy and private sector   dMuing 1990-94. hese wer laws on   paticipation iinthe prvatization proes. (By Negotiations.)                                         Econoy
developnant                lesing, registration of entepies   Statu: Inylemented. LAw 194 adopted on November 4, 1995.
privatization of SOE., joint stoAk
compaies, foreip knveastend
enepreieurhip          . bsin y.
erpr, labor contcts, collaterl
and pcopeutyrigts. A Constitution
wmennt paaneing protection
ofpvivate propety wa passed in
IL Soda! Safety Nit
1. Cash Conpqsion and eter Benuits
Codain coas, prot                                             Prior Acdon: Amead azret legislation (By Apprisal) to:                                               MaistryofFaunc YMistryaof
vulnerable poop.                                              (a) Stan paying al pensioncr (will the excption of a mul nunber of pesion5i wihb special privilege) slhe  Soda] PatadioV Paulo Fd
nlnam peakion rat. If the Pension Fund is in surplus ldthe aid ofthe year. the surplus dould be distnuted to
pesaican with lsighaeritleriins; and
(b) c-m payig pensil to wkig peainams.
Stats: (a) ImplementaL Govaert smsed to limit the moelhlypseaothe amot ut of aial        e
collecion All pesaoon will be paid at the minimumn rte. The wAshlyszqplus in the Pasion Fund, ifany, will
be disuibuted to h eligibl pensioe  prpodionaelyto thei halem       Any areu  that are   - d will
ba ce!d .t the end of each quter. Dcae 265 (Aue 10, 19S).
(b) riplemented. Deaee 259 (hme 10, 1996) Sate ta waig peimn will no longer be paid pesin
Producer subsidy for bead          PiorActon: Ccmbine bred compatin  and child allowance idoone sie ocial welfare panamtUratedto   M[nm;JofMF a                yd
eliminated on August 20,1995.      children under 16 yan old (frhouehols w ils pwrchp ia income not eceg double the mIn    vage),..:.    Sodal Prwteco
Generalized couer subsidy for     wtoing pensions wtoew penions are ter than double t  minvimumage, regimueed m    lowd    as. and the
bread eliminuted mneasasted brd    disabled. Allocate inthe budget for 1996 the c_respndI flfl amount ofsocial nlI&re (TR7.8 billion -.A
compensation payeat introduced in    million beneciares (R2US2 mwnt  + TRSlso       ts). Shold the mbe otbeefiis  be hgbrtban
lme 1995. Mecns4sed child          expeced, post-benefits should be capped t &ee tinm the avg min    wage (R26C63) (By Appraisal.)
allowan  introduced h Jme 1995.   Sats  Gow vinmmn lsa hubm saleto adre to this princile snd feels themis no need to amnd the nexhiset
legislation. however, speed tha should the number of bendicaie be geter abi lA miim, i wi, in
co ultatin th IDA, introduce the neceuVy bud  changes to say within the samed budget ceiling
Aatou m      k  under the IhMF Stby uaWament



Ax 2
Pr&wAadinn   ee            k  asaWt. t  eeu  i  W  D   pue) -d                                           1     y
0       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Jk_ i_S^_mXfC                                                                                      _ Aoowo
Sbm 1q_d. Dm.260 ( 10, 1996                     9e im  dd te X I*CsiP_.UaF
i* hmisdt4a">r$6~~~__osoddbz                                                 m
Prreh   (a) Di~~eUn me~ oFftimeEaloinm                                                      1^y fFw_l   d_
(b) Aloatda imean tim kistlv 996at lm71TR   IlOKw-frUapm aiafwpewee         MSWAv Pdby
*A",hPe Eoft lEer c 1   dleftApraim4 
3. Ed.o    sh Ed HeaSdb 8e
Relicel thxtai  oae    Samep         ha 1- co Mt, ,A   fFdorbi.tJon: ADocafie SlIcsst  6 pofX 1l6   14tdtodwh bshhed     xt alewt  1 Grew 19%    fiiyf             Nd} *YlS
Rweo pmr  twod         incroingtheefcncyofmof           kd4etto t   hufi eer(By Appcab4>
dlWeider delyfbub       in theheafs*9 odlh               Weothr=g Ih9kectd bed. Mbe budgp kwu doa    20.5  pacS dgd far t  bef (6ff) mdi d  (I 43%)
servies                 fatbEinguname:. a)Mwo *         sedm
of hopitd bods have ben limited to
mum moeh90per 10,000
th. Expanded) the WelOh   o
haUdn  (EPI) havsbezn
ofat ecton theom eaheh cm                         h     eem
fiom 17eto nmuarnd c) &eu
dion; b the WmHcadc dl te  ior
Dauemhaci been feuaced fbem
1,200 to 650.
Actiom undakeu under the LNIP Stuai  armngmt



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
Objectiv                     Background                                          Acdions to be Implemented under the Credit                                 hnImpkmtueng Agencq
3. Poverty Assessment and lob Creation
Relieve povedty by        There are a variety of employnwt  Prior Action: Prepare terms of referene, satisfactory to IDA (By Appraisal) to: a) cany out a povety shrveyto  Cabind of MfindasfsaMisy
increasing employment     prqgrainu already opetaling mostly    identi* the profile ofpove"  and vuJlnerable groupr, and b) urndedake a study to ases opotiors for pilot propgran  of E cimm  %Gnist ofltbar.
oppostunities.            with support from NGOs.           for job creation. including food-for-worlk public wofks and credit schemes. The studies themselves would be
undentaken unzder the PHRD gmnt
status: naglepentedn
4. Inltutiotal Refomn
Simplify and inprove                                        Prior Actlon Improve the admninistatio of social insunce (By Neptiations) by (a) consolidaing the collection   Minitry ofSocial
social insurance                                            of all payroll taxes under the responsibility of a single ageny, and                               Prsecioltesion
adm       Oinon                                             (b) ccnflking the collection and allocation ofPeaian Fund revenues to mitigate regional diparitieL  Funl/Emplyment Flind/ocial
Status: (a) lniplunetd.                                                                           bunmae Fund
(O) Inplementad Decee. 271 (lune 25, 1996) provides uidelines for the opation oftbe conslidated Fund for
Social Protection ofthe PopulationL
nLttjlsa4or'pa-8U631llenpUintudi2-doc
hJdmf ltniwm BUINfyUIby



8/1/96                                                                                           Annex 3
4:37 PM
TAJIIUSTAN - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS _1/
Estim.    Prelim.    Proj.
1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
GDP Growth Rate                                 -29.0      -11.0      -21.5      -12.5      -7.0
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate                     ..         ..    -29.9       -30.7        0.4
Consumption/GDP                                     ..     110.7      101.5       81.9      91.1
Gross InvestmentlGDP                                ..      23.1       223        17.4       17.3
Domestic Savings/GDP                                ..     -10.7       -1.5       16.7        8.9
National Savings/GDP                                ..      -7A        -0.7       17.4        4.3
Govemment RevenueslGDP                           26.6       27.1       44.5       15.2       13.6
Govemment Expenditures/GDP                       57.8       52.1       55.0       26.5       19.0
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+YGDP (cash basis)_./    -31.2     -25.0      -10.5      -11.2       -5.4
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/GDP (accrual basis) j3  -31.2   -25.0      -25.1      -21.5       -7.2
Export Volume Growth Rate                          ..       -6A       -10.0       -9.0       -6.0
Import Volume Growth Rate                          ..        5A       -33.0     -20.0         8.0
Current Account Balance/GDP_4/                  -18.0      -31.0     -23.0        0.0      -13.0
Total DOD _5/ (mill. US$)                          ..      509.0      760.0      817.0      890.0
DOD/EXPGS 6/                                        ..     111.6      136.0      124A       149.6
DOD/GDP_7/                                          ..      75.0      104.0      143.0      103.0
Debt Service Scheduled (mill. USS)                 ..       19.0       38.0      130.0      243.0
Debt Service/EXPGS 6/                               ..       4.2        6.8       19.8       40.8
Debt Service/GDP                                    ..       2.8        5.1       22A        27.7
Consumer Price Index (% change)
Average                                          ..      2,195        350        635        729
End of Period                                    ..      7,344          1      2,223        183
Exchange Rate 8/
Average                                          ..        932      2,192         95        300
End of Period                                    ..      1,240      3,550
_11 Data should be viewed as highly tentative given the statistical weaknesses.
_21 On a cash basis (in 1996 after new revenue measures).
_3/On an accrual basis (in 1996 after new revenue measures).
_4/ Grants are included in the Current Account.
5/ Debt Outstanding and Disbursed (inc. IMF and Short-Term).
6/ Exports of Goods and Services.
_7/ Drop in the 1996 DOD/GDP ratio is explained by the high diffrential between GDP deflator
and the depreciation of the exchange rate.
_/ 1993 and 1994: Russian rubles per US dollar, 1995 and 1996: Tajik rubles per US dollar.  (tMb-3r.xb



Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RECOVERY AND SOCLAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:      12 months
2.    Project prepared by:        Government, with the assistance of IDA staff
Preparation/Preappraisal:  June 28 - July 24,1995
September 20 - October 11, 1995
December 7 - 20, 1995
February 18 - March 5, 1996
4.    Appraisal mission:          May 25 - June 3, 1996
5.    Negotiations:               July 1996
6.    Planned Board presentation:   September 12, 1996
7.    Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1996
8.    Expeted project completion:  September 30, 1997



Annex 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TAJKTAN
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS" 
(As of June 30, 1996)
USS Million
Credit   Fiscal                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
N._       Year       Borrower                     Proiect                        Credit    Undisbursed
28610    1996      Tajikistan        ]nstitulional Building/TA                      5.00      4.88
Total 1                                      5.00       4.88
Of Which: Repaid
Total Now Held by ID)A                       5.00
Total Amount Sold                            0.00
Of Which: Repaid                        0.00
Total Undisbursed                                      4.88
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVEM NTS
(As of June 30, 1996)
As of June 30, 1996, IFC had no operations in Tajiluisan.
a/ The slams of dtese projects is described in a separate report on atl Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ The Undisbmrsed amounts are the USS equivalent of the amount in SDR at the excbange rate on June 20.
_d Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Credits.



PM I of 2
Tajikistan at a glance
POVERY md SOCLAL                                          Cetlral   Low-
TaMalen       Asima   cms    DevelopuetdiamonD
Pwddautn ffd-li9E4 (bdib                            5.61     408   3,176
GNP per cpi19I4 (US0                              350    2,430      300                  UbUr      q
Avep ragmnual gWewth, 130444
*  Populatlen (5)                                   ti        OA      1.i
_aberbe (5)  ..  *.    1.8    GNP
Meet mrecet ealmats puIat)yweaw9ahle aice 1913]                              P5
Po y he          index h ofp pp  )                    -                      c.p.
Lkm paoAlion (%b rWpopflv                           32        64       26
Ulecpedaqdflg)uats,l                  ~~~       ~~~~67  66  65
W mu(pantOOOnbhi lhfiwh*w)                          47        19       53                 me b  at wEW
CIld m ahon (X d dfwn m S)                            -        ..      36
Acess lto ae water   ofpduaon)                        _        ..       7
E c (s o pqJdaon Ig 159                              2         ..     41         - T n
Gaoes primay enrolmen (S of sac- ppmEata            Be        97      106        -
Male                                              D         U7      112          Lownom  p
Female                                            56        97      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
i        1a      1i1114    INS     E
Gra domstc kvumenVaOP                              32.4      22.3    17.4
Eior of oods end nonactaruGrwc     P             - _         61.3    72.0                Opennoe .oconomy
Goes dames  sgpWP                            ..   17.9       -15     16.7
nrossnd o   hgsaigP                                   - _    4.7     17A
Cued account balce/GDP                               ..    -20        0.0
nte pprutGDP                                         ..       26      438    SSvl                       inasimat
Tod debIGCP                                           -     1040    143.0
Tddg debt swknxp_                            _                9 .4    19.8
Present VAlu of debtGDP              _               -       2_         -
Pmd.t valu of debUt_portr ..                            .      .
137844  13546   1is4         1136 131104
(avge annud glw -hT n
GDP                                4.3    4.0   -211        -1Z5      4A           Lwmm 0
GNP per capl                       0.9   -11.3   -23.       -15.0    1A
EPol   goads and  s                 ..      ..    4.6        2.0    -2t
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1375    1"65      1N64    165
(S aflGDP)O~tiemfetialvaeS
Agriclure                                    _     23.5      23.0    20       Xs
Industy                                      ..   3B.B      49.0    53.0      "
Mufcung                                    _        _         _       .  
pAet cosmplbon                              ..   61.7        67.3    58A 4
GenerS goernmn cs pon                       ..    20.3      27.8    335
Wpctsofgoodsandn J4act     vces              ..      ..     7.7    81.1
1976.51 isss        ion      INS
Agdaitws                                                    -38..    4.2   -2.1
Indueti                                      _       ..   .22         02
MmIlftulng                                                                                                A .  .
Servics                                              ..      -7.1    26.5      *
Prvan con umn                                ..      _         -        -     4      *    *    *             U
Geeal govrnmet conmt                         .    - -                          0- 
aom doMer Investment                         .       -      -332     32.1    -1'
mpost of gods nd n4 r .ervis                         ..     183    -10.3
Gross nOi podudc3 .                                  0         ..           L           -ff    _ e
Nate 1995data _re Rpnb    y stagurasnac           for y ea  ut   toss apedr
'Yfldemands abowbayray Maser i toury (bolcomred wI  hcmeengoup a                  . Ilwdsn hg. fteimdulV
be incomplete.



Annex 6
Pae20F2
Puces amu oovmtumw Rpcs
DomuUo                                 157pISI         1364   133       ICO(S)
Cmmarpel                                 ..       -    360.    6.J 0    -
haplol GOP_ bInr                        13    -31       W7.2   mA 
0vw-nm-rrw 
X#GOFf GPM"                                                                                     "   
wn  _em                                  ..      ..    44.5   15.2
O_x     up                                ..e          -1Q6 -11                    -OWPdd. _6CPI
TRADE
1ng ~ ~ ~ ~ N 1              p 1 Edarldhpwltbvwb (ROL MS)
(Mxkn US$)n                          un       u       un        n&iobwa(tN US
TolM  pte (fob)            _                      ..     -      S 657
Colon                                   ..      -      155    212
Aknbsta                                 -       -      313    385
Mnutufd_                                ..          ..       ..   _     -S.             
Tctdpr"leh (cl)                           _       _      707    Si       -
Food     -d  ..                                     .. 1U       14      -e     . " , z2 
~~~~~~~~~T.                                                                       FIeullr71ll......2
Fudmadidmurg                                           163    145      - 
Ex. p.  0c h (1W07-1011                                                      M..a.In.........go.go
TV=of Udl  198710¢                        ..k ..           .       .               oE *l
BLANCE of PAYMENT
1576    138      1004   1391.
(aae USU
Eqiofob  gcobdmirdnon4scadwnalces..               .      553    657
ayeS ofSgoodts m  nonrIawnmvlcee          ..      -      Go      707     *
Re. 1rndhcer                              .       -     -176      4      a
Notbcto rbhio                             ..     ..      -10    -2                   n
N.a        ntF                           ..      ..       25      25        a m ccow   lne ti GOP
b-. dlUlW lldm                         ..       ..     170       1    4
-hmg Name (nut)                               -          170       1    4Dt
Ch     In not erv                        ..       -        0      -2
Rewm  nhdhg gold 9(. US                   *-      -        0      7
Conunon VS. OxWUSU                                -     22.0   95.0
EXTERNL ODET end RESOURCE PLOW
I sm             ls   low
Told Gem      and dmd                     .. _           50      760
IBRD                                    _0                      0
IDA                                                      0       0
Totldebt                                 ..      ..       19     38
NM                                                       0       0     COuidollonel ot d 69 (.il. US$)
IDA                                     ..     ..        0       0
Conpycallwi Sasoumeows im
Olflclalgrnilg                         ..          . a 25       25
N   aon  ..                                            n.a    ns                          E
Fan dhd_bnS                             ..      _        9      12
Pagdbquny                               *-                      0  
VJflBank UIgr
Cmum                                                     0       0     A-lRD                     E -lid
Obbumseeete                                              0       0     B-IDA    D-0UwmtMal   F-Pat
PuP11mpepn                                               0       0     C-IPF                     G - ShOM9m
Notflm                                                   0       0
Iht ps ta                              ..      ..        0       0
Ntbum                                   ..      _                a
hmSDornSEom.konpuf                                                                                      MIN9
Not Eiriee tola CUte iaroulSdWo                           Ilie _dune.



MAP SECTION



\I>AKtSTAN..69'.'                                       rs                      1l                                 TAJIKISTAN
4'          f WTo Tashkent                        0 ,  '/   ToTashkent                                                        ROADS
* &,>          t   (      /    ~             z                                    *                             SELECTED CITIES
UZBEK.                                         0     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
To Gsslistan              "2To Ouqon                                                                  0      OBLAST CENTER
UZBEKISTAN                                    K oanNATIONAL CAPITAL
Jib _tKa5idad om                                    - - -  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARIES
ha Dzhizaf                                                                                                      - -  --   OBLAST BOUNDARIES"
.,. S                                                                  sr 2 7 --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
t#J Uro -TyuG                                                    :'; oo  }   An oblost is named only when its nmon differs frm thot of its adminisfrottv. c.nI;.s
\ 0-%, _             j                                                   KYRGYZ              REP. 72-                          TOOsh  >7S-
ELENINABAD                                                                 ,                                i                             C H I N A
'  t*r              B~~~~LAST'            ....                                
391                           b                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~39.-
_ 3ge    ,   ~~~~~~~~t  / . . r ) - )  g                                            s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ozero T2    2                       O Shufu9'
To Dmnau (Cr(
'~~'- Z7 0 ~~Kulya                                                                     9 ADAKHSHANSKAYA   
T| Tier mz                                                                                         Kcrog
,}      No ~Konduz\                                                                                             __ _-_ _
KA ZAK H1S TAN
The boundaries, colors.                                                                                                                             IF.'     \
oth.erinformotionshown              A  F G  H  A  N  I S T A  N                                                                                               UZBEKIS-AN
on thii map do nor                                                                                                                                    I       UZBEKISTAN
imply, on the parf of
is WorId Ronk Group,           O            so           I00          150 KltOMETERS                 g0S                                          TRMN5ANX-ru                        Yt;tP        t
'It   Yment on the legal                                           ITURKMENISTAN  *jj'J,KYGYZ RItp.
sttu oan terriory                  I                                                                                                                                 I
i      aon anyndors:menr'            0                    50                    100 MILES                f           PAKISTAN                      -                                             _
_     oracceptance of such                                                                     r*                                                         ' S             5  .  s           I
boutdaries.                           690                                                                        2                              IRAN RE P          AFGANISTAN             CHINA



