Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2917 TJ
                       Development Credit Agreement
           (Agriculture Recovery and Social Protection Credit)
                                between
                        REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated September 16, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2917 TJ
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated July 31, 1996,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve economic stabilization and reforms of the Borrower's
agriculture sector and social safety net (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program
during the execution thereof; and
     WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) consti-
tute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
               "'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble
               to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which
               the Credit is made.";
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (c)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
               wise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
               made in the currency of the deposit account specified in
               Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
     (d)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds
               of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and
               of these General Conditions. Except as the Association
               and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals
               shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
               territories of any country which is not a member of the
               Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied
               from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
               payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
               goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
               the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
               United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
               VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (e)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
               "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
               or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
               between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
               shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
               program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
               Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
               the Association of their respective obligations under
               the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
               of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (g)  Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06 and 9.07.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Central Bank" means the National Bank of Tajikistan; and
     (b)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty four
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to
Page  3
the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account,
and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a deposit account in
Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association
into the Deposit Account.
     (b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in
support of the Program.
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement. If the Association shall have deter-
mined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been used
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January
15, 2007 and ending July 15, 2036.  Each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, sub-
sequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
Page  4
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six (6) months after the date of the Association's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE V
                              Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
Page  5
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
               Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          3 Akademikov Radzabouykh
          Dushanbe, 734025
          Republic of Tajikistan
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688(TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                    By /s/ Yakhyo Azimov
                                                 Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Europe and Central Asia
                                  SCHEDULE
                           Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Credit shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance, or
Page  6
which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed to
finance under another credit or a loan;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:
     Group          Subgroup       Description of Items
     112               --          Alcoholic beverages
     121               --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                   refuse
     122               --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                   or not containing tobacco
                                   substitutes)
     525               --          Radioactive and associated
                                   materials
     667               --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                   stones, unworked or worked
     718            718.70         Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                   thereof, fuel elements (cartridges),
                                   non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
     728            728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.30         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except watches and
                                   watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                   silversmiths' wares (including
                                   set gems)
     971              --           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                   gold ores and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws
of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is
a party); and
6.    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
