Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25113
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-40810; SCL-4081A; SCPM-4081S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBL_IC OF BULGARIA
FCR A
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
December 19, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 10, 2002)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev (BGN)
I BGN = US$ 0.51
US$ 1 = 1.95 BGN
FISCAL YEAR
1997   2002
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDP          -     Australia International Development Program
BGN           -     Bulgarian Lev
CAS           -     Country Assistance Strategy
DFID          -     United Kingdom Government Know-How Fund
DM            -     Deutsche Mark
ERR           -     Economic Rate of Return
FRR           -     Financial Rate of Retum
ICB           -     Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           -     Implementation Completion Report
IS            -     Intemational Shopping
IT            -     Information Technology
MOF           -     Ministry of Finance
MOL           -     Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NCB           -     National Competitive Bidding
NSSI          -     National Social Security Institute
NPV           -     Net Present Value
PCU           -     Project Coordination Unit
QAG           -     Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
SLAP          -     Social Insurance Administration Project
SUS          -      Social Insurance Information System
SS            -     Social Security
SSF          -      Social Security Fund
SSM           -     Social Security Management
TORs          -     Terms of Reference
USAID         -     United States Agency for Intemational Development
USD           -     United States Dollar
USDOL         -     United States Departnent of Labor
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader:   Carlos D.C. Ferreira



BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMNISTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               28
Annex 8. Independent Project Review and Lessons Learned                             29






Project ID: P008323                                     Project Name: SOC INS ADM
Team Leader Carlos D. C. Ferreira                       TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: December 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name   SOC INS ADM                                  L/C/TF Number CPL-40810;
SCL-4081 A;
SCPM-4081 S
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance
(100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.   08/01/1993                            Effective: 01/01/1997        04/01/1997
Appraisal:  05/01/1996                              MTR: 02/28/1999           09/15/2000
Approval:  09/03/1996                             Closing: 12/31/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  MOF/NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager.     Andrew N. Vorkink                        Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager.      Annette Dixon                            Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR   Carlos D.C. Ferreira                     Emily S. Andrews
ICR Primaiy Author.  Carlos D. C. Ferreira
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Developmnenit Impact. H
Bank Performance. HS
Bo7rower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv.                       HS
Project at Risk at Any Tinie No
The project was selected for the QAG FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment. The panel assessed
supervision as highly satisfactory overall and in three of the four dimensions of quality, the exception being
Supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects, which was rated as satisfactory.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to support and sustain the social insurance reform program of the
Government of Bulgaria. The specific objectives were to: (a) support the Government's reform goals of
eliminating the budgetary subsidy for social insurance payments through the achievement of fiscal balance
in the Social Security Fund (SSF) and (b) lay the groundwork for future reforms aimed at more
fundamental restructuring of Bulgaria's system for guaranteeing income security through social insurance.
Therefore, the Project aimed at:
(i) strengthening efforts to increase NSSI's overall operational efficiency in today's emerging market
economy, with a focus on reversing the trend towards reduced tax compliance, which is undermining the
financial stability of the public PAYG social insurance program; and
(ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the newly-created NSSI to perform key policy formulation
and evaluation functions and better manage available resources.
These objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria in its
transition to a market economy. The project aimed specifically at directly improving government finances,
and in the longer-run, potentially encouraging economic growth through lower taxes and the development of
funded pension plans. The fact that the project objectives reflected the strategies of both the country and the
World Bank has resulted in reduced project risks because of the deep sense of ownership that the
Government in general, and the NSSI in particular, had in the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the project in spite of the substantial
transformation of the social security structure of the country, the introduction of a multi-pillar pension
scheme, and the assignment to the NSSI of the responsibility to collect contributions for the whole social
sector.
3.3 Original Comnponents:
The SLAP project was envisaged as a four-year investment program consisting of the following components
and subcomponents, to be implemented by the NSSI:
(a) Increasing Compliance and Operational Efficiency (US$25.8 million) - Restructuring NSSI's
operations with a view to: (a) the development and implementation of modem payroll tax collection and
audit strategies, (b) improved services to program clients, both contributors and beneficiaries; and (c)
improved revenue/expenditure monitoring and projection capability. The detailed subcomponents were as
follows:
(i) Automation Management - Overall advisory support for the establishment of the SIIS by a Social
Security Management Specialist and an Information Technology Management Specialist with quality
assurance expertise;
(ii) OrganizationLApplication Software Implementation - Technical assistance for improving basic
functions of the NSSI, e.g. collections, benefits payments, audit and compliance, and financial
management;
(iii) Social Insurance System Automation (ComPuter Equipment) - Establishment of an integrated
information system (central and regional system equipment);
-2 -



(iv) Voice and Data Communication - Design and installation of a new voice and data communication
system in Headquarters and all Regional Offices;
(v) Security and Access Control - Technical assistance for security policy, computer equipment, and
related accessories and materials for the Central and Regional Security Units.
(vi) NSSI Offices Upgrading - Basic rehabilitation work to upgrade Regional Offices and Headquarters for
the introduction of the automation and communication systems.
(b) Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$2.8 million) - This component sought to improve the
NSSI's institutional capacity in key management and analytical areas. The detailed subcomponents were as
follows:
(i) Actuarial Analysis and Data Base Development - Computer equipment and technical assistance to be
provided to support development of comprehensive staff training plan, and reports and activities that would
be undertaken on a regular basis;
(ii) Policy Evaluation and Analysis - Computer equipment and technical assistance to be provided to
support development of program activities, including reports and special studies to be undertaken on a
regular basis, as well as a comprehensive staff training program; and linkages with local and foreign
universities and research institutes, and online resources and library to be developed;
(iii) Public Affairs - Computer equipment and staff training, including study tours, seminar and training in
use of media to be provided. Three public relations campaigns, focusing on the new agency and legislation
to be launched;
(iv) Resource Management - To establish and train a modem HR unit, including a complete inventory of
NSSI staff, equipment and facilities in order to provide the basis for effective planning for the Institute.
(c) Contingencies (US$3.8 million) - In addition to the above costs, the project included allowances for
physical contingencies of US$2.4 million and price contingencies of US$1.4 million.
The design of the project components was realistic in terms of NSSI's ability to implement them, and the
components were consistent with the project objectives. The first component was supportive of the first
objective of increasing NSSI's overall operational efficiency with a focus on reversing the trend towards
reduced tax compliance, which was undermining the financial stability of the public PAYG social insurance
program. The second component provided the means for achieving the strengthening of the institutional
capacity of the newly-created NSSI to perform key policy formulation and evaluation functions and better
manage available resources. Thus, the components were directly linked to the achievement of the project
objectives.
3.4 Revised Contponents
Project components were not changed during the life of the project. Although not formally planned from
the beginning, project activities were complemented by other donors, particularly regarding the policy work
necessary to support the introduction of the second pillar. The US Department of Labor, USAID, and
DFID were the most important donors who collaborated with the Bank and helped ensure the success of the
project. Nevertheless, some adjustments were made to adapt the project to changes in government
requirements and the faster than anticipated adoption of a multi-pillar pension system:
(i) The scope of Component I was formally expanded to include "the development and implementation of
a modem payroll tax collection system and audit strategy capable of managing the unified administration of
- 3 -



collection of contributions in the social sector, including but not limited to, health insurance contributions."
The project was extended for 6 months to allow the contractors to modify business procedures and
application software accordingly; and
(ii) The type and quantities of the equipment purchased, and the scope of the consultancy services, were
slightly changed as needed to maintain their currency, relevance toward the objectives of the project, and
coherence with other developments in the social sector of Bulgaria. Two activities related to upgrading of
the Human Resources Management Software and Financial Management System were not carried out for
reasons discussed below.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated highly satisfactory, because:
(i) Project objectives were very relevant and completely shared by the Government and the NSSI;
(ii) As hoped, success in the implementation of the project promoted faster-than-anticipated changes in
the Government's willingness to modemize pension policy;
(iii) The implementing agency demonstrated capacity to carry out the project in all areas of project
implementation;
(iv) The proven resilience of the project design enabled the implementation team to deal with a
tremendous amount of change in the social sector with only minor restructuring of project activities. The
project had the right vision from the start, accounting for the necessary improvement of institutional
capacity for the NSSI to become a primary mover of the pension reform. thus increasing the institution's
ability to manage risks, and continuously foster ownership of the reform by the Govemment; and
(v)  The implementation of the project was highly successful .
The project was fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (R96-45) for Bulgaria,
discussed by the Board on April 9, 1996, and which stressed the importance of supporting then recent
Govemment initiatives to reform the social security system. The project had been included in both the
low- and high-case scenarios of Bank assistance to Bulgaria because of its high potential to bring about
needed institutional reform in the social insurance program management, thereby positively influencing
SSF balances. Finally, the project departed from some of the then established Bank project design norms in
that: (i) a project to improve pension administration capacity was prepared prior to approval of an agreed
pension policy; and (ii) the project called for a policy analysis and evaluation capacity to be situated and
developed at the Social Security agency rather than at the Ministry of Labor. In both cases management
decisions were proven correct as explained below. Nevertheless, in retrospect, and considering the rapidly
changing policy environment it appears that the Govermnent would have benefited from a modest technical
assistance component to assist the MOL in building some capacity on pension policy, which would have
allowed it to have played a stronger monitoring role during the implementation of the multi-pillar reform.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of project objectives consistently exceeded the Bank expectations. As a result, project
performance was rated as Highly Satisfactory for the last three and a half years of implementation.
Specifically, the two project objectives were fulfilled as follows:
-4 -



a) Strengthen efforts to increase NSSI's overall operational efficiency in today's emerging market
economy, with a focus on reversing the trend towards reduced tax compliance, which is undermining
thefinancial stability of the public PA YG social insurance program;
The seminal accomplishment of the project is the design and implementation of an automated system
for collection of contributions and information about persons insured for the various social insurance
risks. The system, which has been installed and is operational includes four main operating modules:
Registry, Contributions, Benefits, and Compliance. These systems and their peripheral subsystems,
also designed and installed as part of this project, enable the NSSI to establish and maintain
information about every person insured for any of the social insurance risks and the contributions paid
on their behalf. With these systems, the NSSI is able to determine eligibility for benefits and to
calculate the benefit amount from data within the system. Reliance on archived records of employers
will no longer be necessary. The system also allows the NSSI to maintain information regarding the
contributions and liabilities of all employers and to match this informnation with similar information
from related systems. This facility will allow the NSSI to detect potential nonpayments or
underpayments and to take preventive and corrective actions.
The development of procedures and forms required to create an ongoing register of employee service
and earnings, as well as the development of software to implement the revised register system have
been completed. Similarly, the purchase and installation of IT equipment to implement procedures
have also been completed.
The Central Register is fully established. The information on all clients is contained in several separate
databases, as follows: Insurers' Register Database (information on employers and self-employed);
Personal Register Database (information on employees/workers in terrns of declared insurable income
and contributions); Revenue Database (bank information for contributions paid by insurers and
self-insured persons); Pensions Database (information on pensioners and pensions); and Short-term
Benefits Database (bank information on short-term benefits paid by the NSSI, etc.).
The new Central Register has resolved the issue of accountability to NSSI by employers and therefore
will significantly contribute to increasing compliance. The business processes for acceptance of
contributors' information and short and long-term benefit payments have also been reformed.
The implementation of the SIIS subcomponent "Compliance with social insurance regulations" gives
the NSSI the capacity to generate profiles of potential non-compliers thus allowing greater efficiency in
pre-audit strategies. These profiles are built on bank information and data declared to the NSSI by
employers and partly from the Directorate of Tax Administration through annual tax returns from
firms and regular joint audits.
The laws and regulations goveming the disclosure of information by employers have been reviewed.
The review has produced recommendations to enhance existing laws and regulations towards improved
disclosure of information by firms.
The modem audit system installed under this project will enable a complete redesign of the current
inefficient manual audit selection process. Audit profile techniques have been incorporated into the
design so that as NSSI gains experience with the new system, while risk profiles will enable auditors to
target the employers most likely to be in violation of compliance. The NSSI staff has been trained in
this process and will be able to modify the profiles based on future experience. Although the project
did not include specific activities to improve the skill level of auditors, it is hoped that this audit
- 5-



procedure will also prove helpful in coordinating the social contribution collections process with the tax
collection modernization efforts.
Strategies for new operating procedures to reduce the need for face to face contacts between the NSSI
and its clients have been developed and implemented through software applications for filings of forms,
claims, and enquiries by clients. This is performed by means of electronic forms, by mail, or by phone.
The capability of NSSI's customer service personnel has been improved by access to computerized
contributor and beneficiaries records via software applications generating numerous statements, and
through connections to the internet, and by telephone. The project has assisted the NSSI to design and
generate automatically, via the SIIS, periodic statements conceming the contribution and/or benefit
status of each social insurance client, which will be forwarded by mail to all insured persons on an
annual basis. The first distribution of statements took place just prior to project closing.
b)     Strengthen the institutional capacity of the newly-created NSSI to perform key policy
formulation and evaluation functions and better manage available resources.
Statistical and Actuarial Analysis
In cooperation with several other donors, the office for actuarial and statistical analysis was
established, equipped, and trained. Activities included training courses and study tours for various staff
members and technical assistance for actuarial model development, and establishment of statistical data
bases. NSSI's own database was created containing economic, social-economic, demographic and other
indicators with dynamic sequencing, which allows different simulations in short or long-term
projections. These short and long-term simulations of revenues and expenditures incorporate all
possible changes in legislation so that their effect on the fiscal situation of the system is measured and
more appropriate decisions may be taken. The actuarial staff has already produced two annual
actuarial reports of the program and several statistical analyses. They are respected as the premier staff
for social insurance information in the country. To ensure sustainability this young unit may need
additional staff and some nurturing technical assistance to complement the extensive training its current
staff received.
Policy Evaluation and Analvsis
The project recognized the need for the NSSI to develop the ability to evaluate the impact of policy
changes. An office was established, trained, and equipped. As a result, the NSSI currently has a
reasonable internal capacity to produce ongoing and periodic analyses of the impact of legislative
change, the pensions situation, the real and nominal level of income, analyses of the capacity of the
system to absorb changes and adequately react to these changes. A number of reports have been
produced for use within Bulgaria and by international organizations. These institutional building efforts
helped in the development of the ambitious multi-pillar pension reform currently under implementation.
In reviewing the policy evaluation capacity in the country, it appears that the MOL would have
benefited from a small component in the project to strengthen its pension policy capacity.
PubUc Affairs
The Public Affairs Office was established, trained and equipped through the project and with the
assistance of external donors. This office provides a source of ongoing contact and outreach to the
media and supports NSSI's relations with other institutions and public bodies. Furthermore, it prepares
- 6-



specialized brochures, radio and TV shows, press releases and other articles, which provide direct
information to the insurers and insured persons. With the assistance of external donors, a pension
hotline (temporary to support the launching of the second pillar of pensions) and website of the
institution were developed. The website contains basic legislative documents in the area of social
insurance, structure and functions of the NSSI, software application for pension calculations, etc. The
page is constantly updated and directed towards the needs of insurers and insured persons.
Nevertheless, it is clear that more needs to be done to improve the quality of work of this office,
particularly regarding its ability to ensure the public understands the multiple pillars of pension and
supports the concept.
Human Resource Development
The Human Resources Office was established, trained, and equipped through the project. The office
has developed and implemented job descriptions for all positions in the NSSI, a performance appraisal
system, recruitment and placement, training and career development, compensation and benefits
systems, pay rules and regulations. Management were trained on the new systems. A training staff has
been established within the Human Resources component. This staff has been heavily involved in
planning and managing training activities of Component I of the project. The training staff has also
been active in the development sustainable capacity for management training and for career
development activities.
In addition to the activities planned under the project the NSSI has started the process of strategic
planning and management. The activity stemmed from a consultancy under the project and is now
being carried out under the auspices of the US Department of Labor and with organizational and
consultancy assistance of the US National Academy for Social Insurance and USAID. The staff of the
Department for Social Insurance System Analysis and Strategy (former Policy Evaluation and
Analysis) now have the capacity to handle the development of the NSSI strategic plan and annual
business plans. The department has also developed an internal regulatory document - NSSI Strategic
Planning Guidelines, which ensures that the strategic planning process is systematic and well regulated.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The NSSI carried out the implementation of all project components diligently and efficiently.
Accordingly the outputs by component were rated Hiivhlv Satisfactory, and are described below in
detail.
(a) Increasing Compliance and Operational Efficiency (US$25.8 million)
(i) Automation Management - By design, the overall advisory support to the establishment of the SIIS
was provided by a Social Security Management (SSM) Advisor plus an Information
Technology/Quality Assurance Management (IT/QA) Advisor.   Both advisors' TORs were
subsequently expanded to properly reflect their assistance in the planning and upgrading of planned
project activities towards a generalized collection capability that can serve the whole social sector as
mandated by the Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the Health Insurance Law. The SS Advisor
was maintained throughout the life of the project. The IT/QA Advisor left towards the end of the
project and was replaced with an IT consultant who could provide hands-on assistance to the NSSI
team. Additional IT assistance was provided by two short-term consultants.
(ii) Organization/Application Software Implementation - This key consultancy for technical assistance
in the area of development of key operational procedures for the NSSI, and the design and development
- 7 -



of application software that will support these operational procedures, was by far the largest and most
critical task of the project. It aimed at the creation of a modem system to replace the previous manual
processes and paper based system to collect contributions and information regarding social insurance
program participants. The previous system was highly dependent on the state run enterprises to collect
and retain contributions and data. This new system recognizes the need for an emphasis on client
service and the need to optimize processing time and efficiency. The system developed in this project
has completely re-engineered the work processes of the agency and created four main integrated
modules to establish the desired results. These modules are: (1) Registry, (2) Contributions, (3)
Benefits and (4) Compliance. In addition to streamlining the processes, all forms and applications
have been redesigned to support the new automated system. All relevant Headquarters and Regional
Office staff of the NSSI have been trained in the new system. In addition, the NSSI counterpart IT and
business process staff were trained in depth. To effect the transfer of know-how, the project adopted a
scheme in which NSSI technicians worked side-by-side with the contractor. This enabled the NSSI to
gain confidence and experience in the operation of the system without the assistance of the contractor.
In addition, several tertiary systems have been designed to enable NSSI to carry out additional
functions resulting from changes in the Social Code. It is important to notice that the contractor
fulfilled its obligations within contracted costs and within the allocated timeframe, in spite of NSSI
counterparts being often assigned conflicting priorities.  This was due to the excellent project
management skills of the advisors and of the contractor.
The purchase of the Financial Management System for the NSSI was not fully implemented because
the Ministry of Finance started a parallel activity to implement SAP as the standard financial
management system for all govermment agencies, thus obliterating the need for the activity under the
project. The project team, with assistance from USAID, carried out a review of the functional
adequacy of the software proposed by the MOF. The software was found to be adequate but the NSSI
would need to have access to SAP modules in addition to those that are planned by the MOF. The
NSSI and the MOF understand the need for a strong financial management system at the agency and
are committed to implementing it fully in the future.
(iii) Social Insurance System Automation (Computer Equipment) - The social insurance integrated
information system (SIIS) was established through two major procurement packages as well as a
number of smaller procurements under IS procedures. The majority of the equipment was purchased
through a local supplier (1,029 workstations, 64 servers, 83 printers, etc.) and additional equipment
was specifically procured for the health insurance contributions collection (689 workstations, 310
laptops, 2 servers, etc.). In addition, several procurements under IS procedures took place during the
initial years of project implementation, namely Audio-Visual Equipment, Computer Equipment for
Training Purposes, Video-Projection Equipment, Computer Equipment and Peripheral, including 61
workstations, 8 portable PCs, 15 laser printers, etc. and Office Equipment, comprising 32 fax
machines and 66 copiers. All of the above-mentioned equipment was distributed to the NSSI
Headquarters and its 28 Regional Offices.
Moreover, a high-capacity Printing System with Mail Preparation Facility was procured under an ICB
procedure. As a result of this procurement, NSSI is now in a position to print and automatically sort
and pack into envelopes, millions of statements with the contributions' information for each Bulgarian
citizen. This capacity could be shared with other agencies requiring bulk mailing to large segments of
the population.
(iv) Voice and Data Communication - This major procurement package was awarded through
two-stage ICB. As a result, structural cabling has been built into all NSSI offices and a completely new
-8-



and modernized telecommunication network has been established, connecting Headquarters and the
Regional Offices, thus enabling extremely efficient operation of the modernized data processing system
and telephone equipment. Technical assistance for this activity was provided by a short-term
consultant, who participated actively in all inspection tests and advised the NSSI on technical matters
related to this contract.
(v) Security and Access Control - The contract for establishment of a modem Security and Access
Control System was awarded through IS procedures. Three major security modules were installed,
namely, a Burglary Control System, a Video Observation System, and an Access Control System.
Technical assistance for this procurement was provided by a local short-term expert for the
development of the technical specifications and for the implementation and acceptance of the system.
(vi) NSSI Offices Upgrading - The task was contracted through NCB procedures so as to refurbish and
upgrade the third and fourth floors of NSSI's Headquarters building. The new facilities currently host
the new Data Processing and Communications Center of the NSSI as well as other NSSI departments.
The design of the civil works was developed by a Bulgarian company.
(vii) Other - Eight station wagon vehicles and 1 minibus were procured under an IS procedure. The
vehicles are currently used for the NSSI Headquarters' transportation needs. Shredder Machines were
purchased for Headquarters and Regional Offices to destroy confidential information provided by
employers in paper or magnetic formats, as described above.
(b) Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$2.8 malion)
Described in detail in paragraph 4.1 (b) above..
(c) Project Management Capacity
In addition to the two formal components, the functioning of what turned out to be an exemplary
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was critical to the success of the project. The PCU was staffed with
internal NSSI staff and its strength was supplemented by technical assistance provided by a
Procurement and Financial Management Advisor for the life of the project. This technical assistance
was of fundamental importance to the smooth implementation of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project did not include NPV or ERR calculations.
4.4 Financial rate of return
The project did not include FRR calculations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has assisted the Government of Bulgaria in creating institutional capacity to support and
sustain the social insurance reform program in general, and the implementation of a multi-pillar pension
system and a system of uniform collection of contribution collection in particular, thus fully supporting the
pension policy development program  of the country.  Because of its high contribution to both
administration and policy development, the institutional development aspects of the project were rated as
Hifhiv Satisfactory.



The project achieved its results through the establishment of a modem, independent, and autonomous
agency, the NSSI. In the new agency, the project implemented modem business processes, procedures,
automation systems, and employed consultancies and training to strengthen: (a) the NSSI's operations so
that it could function efficiently in a market economy; and (b) the institutional capacity of the agency to
perform key policy formulation and evaluation functions, and better manage available resources so that it
could deliver the expected services to the population.
The project itself could be seen as an institutional development project. The development impact of the
project is described in detail throughout the ICR.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors oultside the control of government or implementing agency:
The impact of the economic transition to a market economy played a major role throughout the
implementation of the project as the income of the population deteriorated in the wake of a deep economic
reform, and the level of contributions correspondingly deteriorated. The population of Bulgaria is declining,
with the number of pensioners continuously growing disproportionately in relation to the total population.
As expected, this produces a negative effect on NSSI's financial position.
During the initial years of project implementation, the economy experienced also a high level of inflation
that, fortunately, subsided towards the final years of the project. This inflation eroded the real value of
pensions at the beginning of the project with a recovery of the real value of pensions towards the end of the
project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There are several unique factors that impacted the completion of this project. First, this project, seeking to
modernize the social insurance organization and establish a modem automated and efficient institution, was
undertaken before the final design of the social insurance reforms was established. As a condition for
effectiveness of the project, the organization was removed from the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
and established as an independent autonomous agency. Finally, major changes in leadership in the
government as a whole and the National Social Security Institute in particular posed major challenges to
maintaining the momentum of the project and achieving the projected policy, institutional, and technical
aims.
In fact, the final design of the social insurance reform was only completed during the course of the project.
For this reason, it was necessary to develop a project and systems that was flexible and could be easily
modified to be consistent with changes in policy as they occurred. There were two major amendments to
the reengineering and software design contract to accommodate the passage of a Health Insurance Law in
the Year 2000 and for changes to the Social Code in the Year 2001. Each of these changes required
reworking project components and amendments to work plans and schedules. Also, during this period,
modifications to the NSSI operating systems to ensure against problems resulting from Y2K threats were
necessary. At the early stages of the project, the National Social Security Institute was established as a
separate institution reporting to Parliament, with its Govemor appointed by the Parliament. This change
required the NSSI to establish procedures for clear division of duties from the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy.
Also, in the course of project implementation, a change in the ruling party of the government occurred,
- 10 -



which led to changes in the membership of the Supervisory Board. In addition, midway through project
implementation a new Govemor was appointed to head the NSSI. Even.more directly related to the project
were the retirement and resignation of two key executives responsible for directing the implementation of
the project.
But, in retrospect, the most difficult shock to absorb during project implementation was the Govemment's
adoption of a multi-pillar pension policy. Though the possibility had been considered during project design
and the project was able to adjust reasonably well to the new requirements, the law imposed requirements
on the NSSI much beyond the scope of the project. This had a profound impact on managerial attention to
project implementation.
Managerial attention was also diverted when, in 2000, the Govemment opted for creating a Unified
Revenue Agency, which would absorb the revenue collection activities of the NSSI, which were being
designed and implemented under the project, by 2004.
Despite all of these challenges, the project has been completed on time and under the estimated budget. The
result is the creation of a modem automated social insurance system. The NSSI is an organization well
trained and ready to accept the responsibilities for implementing the myriad of changes resulting from the
various aspects of Bulgaria's social insurance reforms. While economic performance caused a delay in
implementation of some of the desired policy changes, the organization is ready to take on all of the
responsibilities envisaged in the initial design.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PCU managed the project well and was proactive in addressing all issues that might have affected
project implementation. There was an excellent level of coordination between the PCU and the heads of
Components I and 2, as well as with the respective staff in each of the components.
With regard to NSSI's organization to carry out tenders for works and civil works, and consultant's
selection processes, the responsible staff in both components have fully contributed to the preparation of
technical requirements, TOR, schedule of requirements, evaluation of proposals, and once the Bidder had
been awarded the contract, NSSI's technical staff efficiently carried out their duties in the negotiation of
contracts and implementation of the activity, thus significantly contributing to the overall success of the
project.
Of outmost importance has been the continuing commitment and unwavering support to the implementation
of the project by NSSI's top management, whose constant attention to the development of the project and
quality decision-making greatly facilitated the attainment of project targets within the planned timeframe.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$32.3 million, of which the World Bank was to finance US$24.3
million, with the balance of US$8.0 million financed by the Government of Bulgaria and various donor
sources. Total project cost was estimated at US$24.2 million. The lesser investment amount was due to an
overestimation of project costs, as prices obtained from bidding, particularly those obtained through ICBs
were lower than anticipated. The cost reduction also reflected a downward trend in the real prices of
computer hardware.
The smaller amounts paid through ICBs have been partially offset by a larger contract amount for the
- 11 -



application software development, as the initial contract amount has been increased to contract for higher
application software development costs than anticipated. The main reason underlying the higher costs was
the increase in the scope of the software application required to support the new Social Code, which
required an Amendment to the Loan Agreement
The conversion of the loan on July 1, 1998, from US$ to DEM has meant a smaller amount available to
finance the project, as the DEM has depreciated in comparison to the US$. The project was able to reach
its procurement objectives mainly because bid prices of hardware for Information Systems were well below
original estimates. This real decrease in prices may have helped to purchase equipment and information
systems in the planned quantities with the available funds, despite the loan conversion and increased
consulting expenses.
Furthermore, as indicated previously, the procurement process for the Human Resources Management
(HRM) system was cancelled with the Bank's concurrence, and the procurement of the Financial
Management System was not implemented. These two changes resulted in substantial savings and are the
main reason behind the unused project funds. It should be noted that careful and professional management
of loan proceeds created the opportunity for substantial savings which were used to reallocate funds, when
needed, to priority areas in key contracts.
The Government made counterpart funding (originally planned in the amount of US$8.0 million) available
through exemption from payment of custom duties and taxes on goods imported under the project. The tax
exemption status of technical assistance expenditure was confirmed at negotiations, and also duly
implemented by the Government.
Multilateral aid agencies provided some cofinancing, particularly in the area of technical assistance and
training for Component 2 of the project. The US Government, through USAID and USDOL, had the
biggest share of cofinancing, followed by the British DFID, and UNDP. Whereas USAID provided
cofmancing for all subcomponents under Component 2, UNDP and the DFID were mainly oriented towards
the areas of policy evaluation and analysis and human resources management (Subcomponents 2.2 and
2.4). The areas of actuarial analysis and public affairs were primarily supported by USAID and USDOL.
Thus, the more substantial part of the technical assistance and training under the project was funded by
cofinanciers rather than by funds originally allocated for this purpose out of the loan proceeds.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating of the project is rated as Highly LAkely, with sustainability defined as the
likelihood of the project maintaining the achievements generated or expected to be generated in relation to
its objectives over the economic life of the Project. Sustainability prospects are reinforced by the fact that
the NSSI set in motion an ongoing process of capacity-building and institutional strengthening that
supported a successful social insurance reform program. Sustainability of the SIAP initiatives as a whole is
promoted because most of its measures are in place, have effected a substantial reorientation of pension
administration practices, and are mutually reinforcing.
In a project heavily reliant on consulting, the transfer of skills is an indicator of sustainability. There have
been extensive training programs in the two components of the project seeking to ensure the sustainability
of the achievement of project results. In most instances the project management capacity developed
quickly, especially in procurement and budgeting functions. The NSSI has taken advantage of its existing
- 12 -



institutional culture, suggesting that there was already considerable capacity, which was put in practice
during project implementation. The long-term, close working relationship between NSSI staff and the
project consultants has also helped prepare the organization to carry the project outputs further.
6.2 Tranisition arrangement to regular operations
The project had appropriate technical, financial, and institutional provisions to ensure effective project
operation. The SUS is operative, audit and customer service procedures are established and yielding
expected results. There are indications that implementation of the many modules of the SIIS were uneven
throughout the country at project completion as this responsibility was assigned to the Institute, and it was
proceeding at a pace commensurate with its staff availability. Nevertheless, NSSI management indicated
that all modules would be installed at all locations as soon as feasible.
The project supported the acquisition of computers, voice and data communications systems, access and
security systems, office refurbishment, which are all fully operative and contributing significantly to the
enhanced level of operations of the NSSI.
The statistics and actuarial office, policy evaluation and analysis office, public affairs office and human
resources office are all well established, have qualified staff, and are equipped to the extent necessary to
ensure independent and successful functioning following project completion.
The project has also supported capacity-building in the field of project management at the NSSI, with
qualified staff and well-established decision-making processes in project implementation and budgeting. It
appears that the NSSI may not be able to fully retain this capacity, as several staff started looking for
opportunities in other World Bank financed projects soon after project completion.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation was carried out expeditiously and in a highly professional manner using clearly
identified project objectives as the foundation for the development of project activities, and thus rated as
hiehly satisfactorv.
The project was responsive to the Government of Bulgaria's priority in investing in social insurance
administration reform. Project preparation and appraisal were carried out in close cooperation with the
Government and took into account financial, technical, economic, and institutional matters of relevance to
social insurance administration reform, and in conformity with the Bank's safeguard policies.
Project preparation also focused on ensuring that the institutional capacity was in place to implement the
project in the form of an independent Project Coordination Unit, well staffed with qualified professionals.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was hiehlv satisfactorv. Supervision missions were carried out on a regular
basis, every six months with almost no deviation, by competent professional staff. Reporting was timely
and reflecting the progress being made on the ground. Verification of compliance with legal covenants and
reporting of the key performance indicators was carried out regularly. The number of the Bank staff
devoted to supervision were kept at a minimal, though fully adequate to keep track of project developments
- 13 -



and address project issues efficiently to maintain the progress on the ground. Supervision missions were
effective in identifying and addressing implementation issues in a proactive manner. Moreover, timely and
adequate support on all pending and critical issues related to project implementation was provided by the
task team on a daily basis. There were no deviations from bank policies.
The implementing agency repeatedly demonstrated its satisfaction with the quick decision-making by the
Bank on any pending issues as well as its ability to depend on regular supervision missions to address
project issues.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Implementation of the project was not without major difficulties that required continuously fine-tuning of
the project activities and decisive action by the Bank's supervision team. Working closely with the
implementing agency, satisfactory solutions were put in place to mitigate the following major difficulties:
(a)    Changes in the Social Security code added substantial new responsibilities to the NSSI, as
described above. In turn, adapting the project to the new code entailed adding new activities to the project
and altering substantially a number of contracts under execution. The Bank, particularly the RPA's office,
demonstrated high flexibility and understanding and provided the team with appropriate guidance to adjust
the project procurement plan and ongoing contracts to absorb the changes.
(b)    To improve its ability to manage the external debt portfolio the Borrower changed the
denomination of the Loan from USD to DEM. A rapid devaluation of the DEM in relation to the USD
while almost all contracts were denominated in USD, caused an early depletion ofprojectfunds, with
the net effect of reducing available loan funds from the negotiated US$24.3 million to US$20.4 million
at completion, and under US$20 million at times. The Bank attempted to get the Borrower to finance the
gap from its own resources but that proved not to be feasible. As a result, the Bank team and the
implementing agency had to reconsider the investment plan. Fortunately, because of savings from
information technology contracts only two major activities had to be cut: a new financial management
system and a new human resource management system. In both cases the Govermnent and the NSSI
remained committed to achieving the project objectives in the long run using their own financial resources.
(c)    Half way through the implementation of the new collection system for the NSSI the Council of
Ministers decided to create a new revenue agency that would absorb eventually the collection activities of
the NSSI. The potential for disruption was great. The Bank's supervision team worked diligently with the
IMF and the MOF to ensure that the new agency would be implemented in a manner that was fully
cognizant of the project and investments made by the NSSI. As a result, the Government entrusted the
Bank and the IMF with the responsibility to prepare a separate project to reform the administration of
revenue collection in the country through the National Revenue Agency. The act creating the new agency
was signed in December 2002, and the Bank-financed project is expected to become effective in mid-2003.
Quality of project supervision was reviewed by a QAG panel and found to be Highly Satisfactory. The
Borrower's evaluation of the performance of the Bank is also lHIighlv Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was fully involved and cooperative in the preparation process. Both the Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy and the NSSI had keen interest in moving the preparation along as rapidly as possible,
and provided all necessary information and support. The Government was already aware of the need to
- 14 -



reform and modernize its social insurance system, and many changes were already under way, so that the
Social Insurance Administration Project could build on this base and take another step forward.
The Borrower's performance in project preparation was Highly Satisfactory, as demonstrated by its
commitment to utilize the resources from the loan, and other donors, to develop the capacity to carry out
WB-supported reform  of the social insurance administration.  The Government showed a strong
commitment to preparing the project and ensuring that government agencies were fully involved in project
design and prioritization of components and activities.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government met its commitments under the project without fail, including the timely and adequate
provision of counterpart funding, though unwilling to go beyond the agreed level of funding when the
project faced financial difficulties due to the loss of value of the DEM in relation to the USDk All legal
commitments were complied with, and there were no deviations from the Bank's safeguard policies. The
Government performance is rated Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The NSSI's performance was Highly Satisfactory in its role as principal implementing agency.
Implementation was facilitated by the fact that an effective Project Coordinating Unit was established in
advance of the signing of the Loan Agreement and project effectiveness. The NSSI also performed its tasks
expeditiously and with competence, and was eager to adopt new technologies and procedures that proved
effective.
The PCU, on behalf of the NSSI, maintained the accounts of the project in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Excellent coordination was established with the NSSI Financial-Accounting Activity
and the Control General Directorate, which ensured the competent and timely payment of the required
cofmancing, provided reports, and reflected the project financial operations in the accounting system of the
National Social Security Institute.
NSSI's compliance with legal covenants under the loan was considered Highly Satisfactory. The PCU had
skilled staff who carried out all project activities in a professional manner.  Throughout project
implementation, a foreign consultant provided assistance in setting-up systems and providing training in
financial management and procurement. Project staff carried out their tasks well in terms of providing
information and guidance to the NSSI staff charged with responsibility for the implementation of the
project components, in explaining Bank procurement guidelines and procedures, and supervising project
implementation.
7.7 Overall Borroiver performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
There were a number of lessons that emerged from this project with relevance for other projects in this
sector:
(a)    Institutional capacity-building requires a holistic approach. Successful institutional capacity
- 15-



building takes many years and requires a comprehensive array of investments, including infrastructure
(process modeling tools, software development, hardware, civil works, telecommunications equipment,
security procedures and equipment, and others), development of management skills and team building
(through advisors and coaching), expert skills training (using an array of well-designed benchmarking
visits, formal group training, and individual training), basic skills training (English language, computer
skills, and briefing techniques) and strategic and business planning, including strong project management
(for agency management of business plans as well as the PCU). It also requires that the client commit its
staff to working closely with consultants and contractors, and that it adequately staff components to
undertake new functions.
(b)   ln a complex changing economic and institutional environment, project design should build in
flexible procedures to include new activities during project implementation or to cancel certain
activities should the need for this arise. Project design needs to be developed with the involvement and
commitment of the client, country stakeholders, all donors, and subject matter experts. Bank staff must take
the initiative and continue to invest their time in donor and other stakeholder coordination and ongoing
communication to avoid duplication, delays, and client frustration. During implementation of the project,
new roles were assigned to the NSSI and the need for certain project activities was eliminated. Throughout
those changes, both the Bank and the Borrower showed the necessary understanding and mutual support,
thus ensuring smooth implementation of the project and avoiding any disruptions to the ongoing project
activities and ensuring the achievement of the project objectives. Because of the commitment developed
early on, and in spite of lengthy and involved procedures, adjustments were made to the project with
relative ease.
(c)    Timely development of administrative capacity to implement policy reforms is key to
successful roil out of the reforms. Investment in building institutional capacity should be the first step
when working with a country to develop new policies so that the institutions are prepared to help develop
and then implement new policies.
(d)    Institution-building projects must provide sufficient advisory capacity for institutions to
develop in the right direction. Projects that build institutional capacity need to be structured and financed
to provide ongoing expert advice in addition to the cost of the technical assistance activities or goods
procurement being financed.  This is particularly imperative in the case of projects involving IT
investments, which raise complex issues that must be understood and addressed by the Bank team both in
the project design phase and throughout the life of the project. These include the need to provide objective
advice and to audit the work of the primary consultants for software development.
(e)    Design is not enough, implementation assistance is key. Projects require strong and active Bank
participation at supervision and support, along with strong commitment by client management. An
especially essential area requiring Bank support is procurement, from the preparation of terms of reference
to award of contracts. Flexibility on project components and categories during implementation is also
important to maximize the project's positive impact under changing circumstances. For example, under the
project there was a need to reallocate funds to cover increased consulting expenses due to changed terms of
reference to change collection activities into a social sector wide collection process. Moreover, the dynamic
political environment in countries creates special challenges when dealing with a loan agreement and
consultant contracts that span several years. Dealing with delays that might arise from legislation
mandating significant program changes and political changes requires strong commitment by the Bank,
client, and consultant teams.
- 16 -



(f)    Training in project management and World Bank guidelines is vital. It is very important that
all officials responsible for project components, not just the PCU, acquire strategic and project planning
skills for successful project management and capacity building in the client agency. Project managers must
have the capacity to perform the basics of implementation, including preparation of TORs, technical
requirements, evaluation of offers and proposals, contract negotiation and implementation. This is
necessary to ensure smoother implementation of the project, with active participation of the related
technical staff in areas where the PCU might lack the technical expertise and know-how.
(g)    Close and trusting relationship between primary consultants and the Client's counterpart
staff is essential for successful know-how transfer and establishment of a new institutional culture.
Consultant linkages with subject matter experts who have experience in similar agencies in their home
countries resulted in high quality advice that would be difficult to replicate in a commercial consulting finm.
The project's experience is that the nonprofit status of consultants did provide unique benefits and
flexibility when the implementation requirements changed under the project. Also, the use of local
consultants by the international consultants created valuable capacity in the country that is helping sustain
the project implementation. In summary, creating the right conditions has allowed a close working
relationship resulting into successful know-how transfer, which m turn has established sufficient intemal
capacity for the NSSI staff to continue to manage the new procedures and practices with local extemal
assistance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/linplenenting agency:
The implementing agency provided a very comprehensive analytical report on which this ICR is based.
Hence the ICR reflects quite fully the input of the Borrower. The implementing agency report, including
the evaluation of the project from the perspective of the Borrower, is attached to the ICR.
In addition, the NSSI was consulted and given the opportunity to provide specific comments to be included
in the ICR. Through an electronic message dated December 10, 2002, the agency cleared the document,
requesting a few changes to be made to the text, which were incorporated by the project team.
(b) Cofinanciers.
There were no formal cofinanciers in this operation. Nevertheless, because of the Borrower's reluctance to
borrow for technical assistance, and given that there were opportunities for grant funding of technical
assistance activities designed under the project, the Project Team made the greatest possible use of those
opportunities. The Bank is indebted to those partners.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
US Government: USDOL and USAID
UK Government: Know-How Fund (DFID)
10. Additional Information
None.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix     ,   .         Projected in last PSR  :              ActualLatest Estimate
a. Produce annual reports on revenues and  100%                             100%
expenditures using actuarial model
b. Develop administrative procedures for  100%                              100%
contribution compliance and enforcement
c. Develop software to implement new  100%                                  100%
administrative procedures
d. Purchase and install IT equipment to  100%                               100%
implement new administratve procedures
e. Implement new procedures           100%                                  100%
g. Contbibution collection ratio up to 80  85%                              80%
percent of potential by 2005
a. Develop procedures and forms necessary  100%                             100%
to create an ongoing register of employee
service and eamings
b. Develop software to implement revised  100%                              100%
register system
c. Develop human resources program to  80%                                  80% - Note: A satsfactory program was
implement procedures                                                        developed but not fully automated. The NSSI
decided to procure the planned revised
Human Resource Management Information
System with Its own resources after project
completion.
d. Purchase and install IT to implement  100%                               100%
system
e. Implement new Social Security system  100%                               100%
f. 90 % of benefit payments calculated  100%                                100%
based on data on central register by 2002
g. Waitng time for clients no longer than 15 15 minutes                     Unknown. Because of delays In
minutes on average by 2001                                                 implementing the BenefHts system (5/02) and
because it was not possible to measure
waiting tme with old system, results are not
known yet.
This project was developed in 1995 and suffered from a limited attention to the introduction of real
outcome and impact indicators. The indicators included above were used primarily to monitor the progress
in the implementation of the project.
The project team attempted to add indicators to measure outcome, particularly for the project area related
to revenue collection perfornance, covering the agency efficiency and effectiveness in improving
compliance and collection of arrears. Those indicators can be found in the aide memoires following the
mid-term review and on the progress reports prepared by the agency. There was mixed success in the
introduction of these additional indicators because the implementing agency was totally dedicated to not
only implementing the project but, above all, absorbing the impact of the changes introduced by a new
- 18-



Social Code that changed substantially the functions of the agency.
The project team, as a result, had to rely on its own assessment of the contribution of the project to the
progress in the pension reform dialog and quality of pension admninistration as evidence of outcome and
impact of the project.
Output Indicators:
.    Indleator/Matix             Projectd InIM PSR.            'ih{ a  A s4jrat    - -
End of project



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
1. Improving Operational Efficiency               25.80          20.70          80.2
2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
2.1 Actuarial Development                          0.70           0.60          85.7
2.2 Policy Planning and Analysis                   0.30           0.60           200
2.3 Public Affairs                                 0.60           0.60           100
2.4 Resource Management                            1.20           1.70          141.7
Total Baseline Cost                               28.60          24.20
Physical Contingencies                            2.35
Price Contingencies                               1.35
Total Project Costs            32.30         24.20
Total Financing Required            32.30         24.20
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.70         0.00         0.00        0.70
(0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.60)
2. Goods                    13.30        0.00         5.10         0.00        18.40
(11.30)      (0.00)       (4.30)       (0.00)      (15.60)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         8.10         0.00         8.10
(TA and Training)          (0.00)        (0.00)      (8.10)       (0.00)      (8.10)
4. Oper & Maintenance       0.00         0.00         0.00         5.10         5.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    13.30         0.70        13.20         5.10       32.30
._____________________  (11.30)  (0.60)    (12.40)      (0.00)       (24.30)
-20 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements}ActualiLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         ICBS            NCB  -       Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost -
1. Works                         0.00           0.70           0.00          0.00           0.70
(0.00)         (0.60)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.60)
2. Goods                         9.50           0.00           1.50          0.00          11.00
(9.40)         (0.00)         (1.30)        (0.00)        (10.70)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           9.60          2.40          12.00
(TA and Training)               (0.00)         (0.00)         (9.60)         (0.00)        (9.60)
4. Oper & Maintenance            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.50           0.50
____________________ _ -   . (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
.   . ____________________   (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
_    (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         9.50           0.70           11.10         2.90          24.20
____________________  (9.40)  (0.60)        (10.90)        (0.00)        (20.90)
Notes:  ]. Numbers differ slightly from SAP due to rounding, differences in categorization, and variation in exchange rates
(loan is in EUR).
2. NBF includes estimated contributions by USAID, USDOL, and DFID
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.                . ;.r  + -  -   +f -   r | .; * -. -  -.<< -;  ;  ; .    r- Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Esti te-;:" '    " * Actual/Latest EStinate.  -
Bank   ., Govte :,  CoPF.0S  -1 lank.    Govt.     CoF.     Bank-. Govt.   CoF.
t. Improving Operational  21.70     7.60                19.90      0.30               91.7    3.9
Efficiency
2. Strengthening
Institutional Capacity
2.1 Actuarial Development  0.70     0.10                 0.10      0.04      0.42     14.3   40.0
2.2 Policy Planning and   0.20      0.10                 0.10      0.03      0.53     50.0    30.0
Analysis
2.3 Public Affairs        0.60      0.10                 0.10      0.03      0.52     16.7   30.0
2.4 Resource Management   1.10      0.20                 0.70      0.12      0.93     63.6   60.0
Notes:  1. Numbers differ slightly from SAP due to rounding, differences in categorization, and variation in exchange rates
(loan is in EUR).
2. Numbers are based on the accounting system used by the project.
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
7/28/1995                   7   Identification Mission: Mission
Leader and Economist, 2 Social
Security Economists, Project
Officer, Tax Admin. Specialist,
Pension Admin. Specialist,
Automation Specialist
12/15/1995 L                9   Pre-appraisal Mission: Mission
Leader and Economist, 2 Social
Security Economists,
Implementation Specialist,
Project Officer, 3 Automation
Specialists, Mission Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/12/1996                   8   Appraisal Mission: Mission
Leader, 2 Social Security
Economists, Project Officer,
Collection Specialist, 3
Automation Specialists
6/20/1996                   6   Negotiations Delegation:
Negotiations Leader and Social
Security Economist, Operations
Officer, Country Counsel,
Disbursement Officer, Project
Officer, Automation Specialist
Supervision
11/11/1996                  5   Mission Leader, Project            S            S
Officer, Automation
Specialist, Implementation
Specialist, PAS
05/16/1997                  3   Mission Leader, Automation         S             S
Specialist, Social Security
Specialist
09/20/1997                  4   Mission Leader, Automation
Specialist, Social Security
Speciaiist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
02/25/1998                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist, Social Security
Economist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
- 23 -



09/19/1998                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS           HS
Specialist, Social Security
Economist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
02/26/1999                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS           HS
Specialist, Social Security
Economist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
09/30/1999                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist, Social Security
Economist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
02/04/2000                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist, Social Security
Economist, Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
09/15/2000                  4   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist; 2 Social Security
Economists; Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
02/23/2001                  4   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist; 2 Social Security
Economists; Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
09/27/2001                  2   Mission Leader and Social         HS            HS
Security Economist; Procurement
and Disbursement Specialist
04/19/2002                  3   Mission Leader and Automation     HS            HS
Specialist; Social Security
Economist; Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
ICR
10/7/2002                   2    Social Security Specialist,
Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
Note: A number of additional missions, starting in February 1993, were carried out prior to the identification
mission included as the first mission in the table above. Because these missions had a general objective of
advancing employment and social protection programs, rather than specifically addressing the pension
administration agenda, they were not included in the Bank Inputs table.
- 24 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               140                         518
Appraisal/Negotiation                     20                          63
Supervision                              131                         456
ICR                                        5                          28
Total                                    296                        1,065
Notes: 1. Staff weeks for the preparation phase of the project through negotiations has been estimated based on
FY00 average staffing costs.
2. Total staffing costs for FY96-FY99 estimated based on 70/30 split Fixed/Variable cost.
3. Actual staff weeks for supervision for FYO0-FY02.
4. ICR staff weeks in FY03 as estimated by the project team.
-25-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
Oi Sector Policies                    O H  OSUOM O N O NA
E Physical                            OH   OSUOM ON O NA
O Financial                           OH OSUOM ON O NA
O Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H  OSUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
O Gender                        O H  OSUOM O N       O NA
Li Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N (0 NA
Li Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
-26-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
X Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
? Overall                                           OHS Os       0 u   O HU
62 Borrower performance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
OGovernment implementation performance              OHS OS       OU    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Aide-memoires
(a) Identification through Negotiation:
July 1995; December 1995;
February 1996; and June 1996.
(b) Supervision:
November 1996;
May 1997; September 1997;
February 1998; September 1998;
February 1999; September 1999;
February 2000; September 2000;
February 2001; September 2001; and
April 2002.
2.    Economic Performance Analysis
"An Analysis of NSSI First Pillar Deficits And Revenue Enhancement"; Wayne Vroman (USAID),
May 2000
3.    QAG Review Report
"FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment"; through electronic mail issued by Prem Garg,
November 20, 2000.
4.    Borrower's Final Project Progress Report
"Final Project Progress Report", National Social Security Institute, January 2002.
5.    Borrower's Completion Report
"Implementation Completion Report"; National Social Security Institute, April 23, 2002.
-28-



Additional Annex 8. Independent Project Review and' Lessons Learned
The project team contracted an experienced international social security reform consultant to review the
project implementation experience, the implementing agency feedback, and the draft ICR. This annex
reflects the consultant's observations and feedback to the project team following her review of the project
documentation and in-country assessment of the project implementation effort.
1.     Successful institutional capacity building takes many years and requires a comprehensive
array of investments, including infrastructure (process modeling tools, software development,
hardware, civil works, telecommunications equipment, security procedures and equipment and
others), development of management skills and team building (through advisors and coaching), expert
skills training (using an array of well designed benchmarking visits, formal group training, and
individual training), basic skills training (English language, computer skills, and briefing techniques)
and strategic and business planning, including strong project management (for agency management of
business plans as well as the PCU). It also requires that the client commit its people to working
closely with consultants and that it adequately staff components to undertake new functions.
Observations: The SLAP provided NSSI with all of ihe above. The Governor and his management team
feel that the result is that NSSI has moved to a new level of performance which enables them to perform
better and has earned the respect of the public and the Government. Other observers agree that significant
achievements have been made but express concern about the sustainability of these achievements in specific
areas. In part, this concem is based on the lack of client commitment to assigning people to work with the
consultants at times during the project and on the failure to fully staff components which have new
responsibilities.
NSSI is clearly equipped to achieve the Component I objectives of improving its financial position through
improved collections and strategic and business planning. However, the delivery of key software at the end
of the contract period leaves NSSI without support if there are problems with that software.
Implementation of at-least one component had not yet begun at the.time of this visit.
Success in building capacity in several of the subcomponents in Component II (HR and actuarial and
statistical work) can be seen from the ongoing activities in these areas. A few subcomponents demonstrate
less in terms of planning and production of non-routine level activities (PR and policy analysis) and might
benefit from further support and staffing commitments by NSSI.
In one important respect, financial management, the NSSI did not undertake any activities and has not
implemented any changes as a result of the SIAP. To the extent that the Government-wide initiative for
improving financial management is implemented, this gap will be somewhat corrected, but the Government
initiative does not seem as comprehensive as the initiatives intended by the project.
Although the donors may rightly feel that further investment in NSSI is not appropriate given the many
demands on their resources, it may be useful to hold frank and open discussions on what could be done
using NSSI resources to ensure institutionalization of all aspects of the project and to plan adequate
"continuing education" and staffing of key components.
2.     Project design needs to be developed with the involvement and commitment of the client,
country stakeholders, all donors, and subject matter experts. Bank staff must take the initiative and
continue to invest their time in donor and other stakeholder coordination and ongoing communication
- 29 -



to avoid duplication, delays, and resentments.
Observations: The project began with excellent coordination and the understandings reached among donors
in the early phases helped to carry activities through to completion without significant problems. Donor
participants in the early period of project design and implementation felt that they were part of a team,
working for the same goals in a coordinated way. The management advisor consultant in NSSI helped to
some degree to maintain this coordination in the later phase of the project. However, some problems and
hard feelings did arise, which mnight have been avoided if there had been stronger outreach to continue
relationships by the Bank team, such as ongoing participation of all donors in Bank reviews and
preparation for and conduct of missions, better proactive communication and sharing of documents by the
Bank, and better integrated planning of complementary activities.
Achieving the desired level of coordination with donors is a matter of both skill and experience. In
recognition of its importance, the Bank may want to require training for project managers in team building
and effective communication within teams, including consultants, and with key stakeholders, and allocate
supervision resources to have it carried out.
The arrangements among the Bank and external donors were flexible, which was positive. On the other
hand, some things might have worked better if there had been clear discussions and agreements that were
established in writing. The current Bank practice of placing responsibility for donor coordination on the
country is not effective. Given the fact that the same donors are often involved in similar projects, the Bank
may wish to develop standard approaches for donor coordination with USAID, USDOL, DFID, and UNDP
that result in written memoranda of understanding among donors and with the country concerning sharing
of information.
To a great extent, essential stakeholders were involved in the development of SLAP in Bulgaria and the
design was comprehensive based on the known situation at the time. Most importantly, client involvement
and commitment to the project at the highest levels was present at all times.
However, one missing stakeholder was the IMF, which later initiated a Unified Revenue Agency, now the
National Revenue Agency (NRA), project with the Government. This project has the potential to
eventually undernine the outcomes of the SLAP by rendering some of it obsolete. Fortunately, in the case
of Bulgaria the Bank and IMF worked jointly in the development of a policy on unified revenue collection,
but it would have been better if this policy were developed earlier.
3.    ]Investment in building institutional capacity should be the first step when working with a
country in developing new policies so that the institution(s) is prepared to help develop and then
implement the new policies.
Observations: This project is unique in the region for its concentration on building institutional capacity
before policy reforms were completed. As a result, NSSI was able to provide technical assistance to the
Government in development of new policies and has been able to accommodate a series of changes in law
and expansion of responsibilities. They are rightfully proud of these accomplishments which further helps
institutionalize the new capacities.
4.     Projects that build institutional capacity and/or require procurements need to be structured
and financed to provide ongoing expert advice in addition to the cost of the activity or procurement
being financed.
- 30 -



Observations: Many feel that this is one of the most important success factors in the NSSI project. Key
advisor positions were (1) a management and policy advisor, (2) an IT advisor, (3) a procurement and
financial management advisor, and (4) a telecommunications advisor. The advisors cost approximately
$961,152, about 4.6% of the World Bank loan funding or 4.0 % of the total project costs. The total costs
of the advisors was relatively low because of the large amount of the entire project.
5.     Projects require strong and active Bank supervision and support along with strong
commitment by client management. An especiaHly essential area requiring Bank support is
procurements.
Observations: Participants cite several factors in this regard that contributed to success: relatively stable
Bank team membership, unfailing and effective missions every six months, strong local Bank participation,
ready availability of Bank team members when problems arose, strong PCU management and staff, and
NSSI commitment to the project despite changes in two of the three most senior managers. Other related
factors were: immediate and clear aide memoires with action items for the client and the Bank identified,
along with due dates that were then tracked; outstanding record keeping and tracking of all subtasks using
Microsoft Project by the PCU; close attention to expenses by the PCU; and client commitment to staffing
the PCU. Finally, the PCU developed and used specially designed software for project financial and
accounting management.
A unique aspect of the SLAP was that the PCU was seen as important to the success of the project with no
complaints from the client or the Bank. Several factors were present that led to this: the PCU was in the
client's management chain and served the client exclusively, it was staffed with highly qualified people,
and the staff received extensive training.
The client maintained a Project Operations Manual that was established at the beginning of the project as
required by the Bank. The manual describes the roles of people within NSSI and the detailed objectives of
all the consultant procurements. In the view of those who worked with it in the early period of the project,
it was marginally helpful in establishing working relationships and providing an understanding of the
project. Most people interviewed who were not part of the early phase of the Project were not aware of its
existence. The concept of the POM is good but it did not seem to have any meaningful impact in this
project. It may be useful to have a Bank team, along with client representatives from several Bank
projects, review this requirement to develop ideas for making it more useful, particularly in preparing the
client to meet its commitments.
This project had the benefit of a Bank procurement expert as a team member and Leader throughout the
project. Further, the local Bank staff had procurement expertise and the PCU staff was very qualified and
had several weeks of training on procurement. Also essential to success in the minds of many was the
continuing support of the expert procurement advisor who was a lawyer and familiar with bank
procurement procedures. All of these factors were cited as important, not only in procurement processing
but also in dealing with complex and sensitive problems of contractor performance. Client personnel
involved in the initial procurements did not know much about or understand the Bank procurement
processes. One observer suggested that it would be helpful to have training for the client personnel who
will be involved in developing requirements and evaluating bids (other than the PCU) when work on a
procurement is about to begin.
Although delays did not occur on the SUAP, client personnel involved in the early stages were surprised at
how long the process takes. Experience on other projects leads to the observation that Bank personnel
responsible for reviewing and approving procurements should have clearly established processing time
- 31 -



performance standards. Clients and project managers should be aware of these standards and build them
into their own project schedules.
6.     Strategic and business/project planning skills are important for successful project
management and capacity building in the client agency.
Observations: While the project objectives were excellent and the tracking of project milestones, including
procurements and consultant performance, was exemplary, building a planning capacity in NSSI was not
part of the original project design.
The importance of building NSSI capacity to do strategic and business planning was eventually recognized,
resulting in an initial consultant funded by the Bank. Subsequently, USDOL took on the financing of this
activity. A great deal has been accomplished since that time. However, these efforts were not linked to the
PCU, which had excellent project management skills that could have been utilized in developing business
plans. All NSSI managers would have benefited from the PCU staff experience gained using project
tracking tools and project design skills.
One of the most difficult aspects of planning is the development of the measures of success. Most Key
Performance Indicators for SIAP focused on outputs: the completion of the tasks in the project plan rather
than the outcomes described in the objectives. An opportunity for useful capacity building was missed by
not having NSSI evolve the project indicators into its own performance measures as part of the training on
strategic planning.
One area in which the Project Indicators attempted to measure outcomes was collections. However, the
client did not see these items as meaningful and did not understand them. It was interesting to find that the
Director of the Collections Sector had never even seen them. Since the collections issue is so important in
pension projects, it would be helpful for the Bank to develop a standard performance measure framework to
be used by the Bank (and the IMF) for all tax collections, whether income tax, social sector contributions
or other forms of taxes such as VAT or customs duties. These should include both economic and
administrative aspects of performance.
Another measure had to do with improving service delivery time but it was very general and unclear as to
what was meant. The NSSI did not understand this measure because it was so abstract and it was never
anything that they "owned" or could have understood how to achieve.
7.     The dynamic political environment in countries creates special challenges when dealing with a
loan agreement and consultant contracts that span several years. Dealing with delays that might arise
from legislation mandating significant program changes or political changes requires strong
commitment by the team of Bank, client, and consultants.
Observations: The project design was necessarily created and financed based on the existing law at the
time of the loan. With a long project tirne frame in mind, it was reasonable to assume that there would be
legislative changes that impacted the NSSI. In the jargon of strategic planners, this would be a "known
Unknown." The solution for this is to build in unallocated funds up to a certain limit.
Usually, loan projects can accommodate legislative changes by using the unallocated funds. In this case,
the changes were major and required World Bank Board approval of reprogramming of substantial funds
and then extension of the software development contract under a sole source arrangement. These complex
legal approval processes were successful and did not delay the project significantly because of the unique
- 32 -



talents and commitment of all parties to a successful project.
8.     Projects involving IT investments raise complex issues that must be understood and
addressed by the Bank team in the project design phase and throughout the life of the project. These
include the need to provide objective advice and to audit the work of the primary consultants for
software development.
Observations: IT involves much more than computers and software. To prepare for the IT installation,
clients may need civil works, furniture, telecommunications, basic skills training (e.g., some personnel will
not even know how to use a mouse), English (to use programming languages), inspection costs, security,
back up capacity, and others. Fortunately, the SIAP team had a Bank IT expert who could anticipate these
needs. The Bank should develop a checklist for use in any project involving IT to ensure that project
design captures all these aspects and funding is adequate for what will be needed.
Although an IT advisor was seen as important for the SIAP, there were problems in filling this position
and retaining someone. Since IT is such a broad field, finding a single "expert" to work across the range of
issues that might arise is problematic. Also, the consultants contracted to develop software may resent
such an advisor. On the other hand, the client should have expertise available to balance advice from the
primary IT consultants. One way to possibly deal with this challenge is to routinely require that clients
establish an IT advisory capacity. This might work by having the management advisor act as the manager
of the IT advisory capacity, recruiting a small group of experts (with help from the Bank) to be available
on call depending on the issue. On some issues, the management advisor may want to bring in a panel of
experts. Also, other projects have experienced failures because the clients were not equipped to verify the
work of the software developers while the work was in progress. The IT advisor role should also include
the "auditing" of the software developer.
Business process modeling tools are now considered a critical part of the development of new processes and
supporting IT. In the SIAP, a very expensive tool was purchased by the software development consultant
and has now been handed over to the client. It is unclear whether the client can support the ongoing costs
of the tool and has been adequately trained in all of its capabilities. There are a wide variety of such tools
and the decision to invest in any one of them needs to be made carefully. There is also the question of
whether they should be utilized by the software development consultant or can be used effectively prior to
contracting with the software developer.
Although not developed as planned in the SLAP, financial management and human resource systems raise
an interesting question in pension agencies. There are no Bank standards on the desired functionality and
capacity for such systems. This means that each project develops its own standards and invests in software
development that may be unnecessary or inadequate, depending on the situation. It would be helpful to
have a set of standards in these areas, both for assessing current capacity and developing new systems.
9.     Consultant linkages with subject matter experts with experience in similar agencies in their
home countries resulted in high quality advice that would be difficult to replicate in a commercial
consulting firm. The nonprofit status of these consultants may provide unique benefits to a project.
Observations: In the case of the work organized by the USDOL for Component H, expert advice and
training was arranged primarily through arrangements with the nonprofit National Academy of Social
Insurance, which has many members currently and formerly in government as well as m academia and
research institutions. In the case of Australia IDP, the consultant was able to utilize experts from within
the Australian government agencies with parallel responsibilities to NSSI functions. The British Know
- 33 -



How Fund had a similar capacity.
The availability of this expertise was critical to the success of the consultants' work. The ability to access
a range of experts was described by many as key, since it meant that the advice was not dependent on the
input of a single individual who might have had only a former connection to a related Government agency
nor to people who are expert in a certain skill but have no direct knowledge of the business of the client.
These organizations (NASI, Australia IDP and KHF) were also better able to arrange meaningful
benchmarking study trips with home and other govemment agencies. Finally, the costs of using experts
still in government or associated with a nonprofit organization such as NASI can be significantly lower
than other independent consultants.
How to utilize this lesson learned is a challenge since most non-profit organizations will not participate in
competitive procurements. The Bank may wish to investigate the availability of organizations such as
NASI to participate in projects as a resource to commercial consultants to provide expert advice and
training in matters requiring special expertise. (Since Australia IDP is a non-profit organization which
does compete with commercial companies, their participation as the organizer of expert advice, training,
and benchmarking activities may not be appropriate.)
One other aspect of the Australia IDP consultant raises an interesting question. This nonprofit organization
had a strong desire to succeed in its first European project. Thus, as the project progressed, it appears they
made a management decision to commit an additional 20% above the reimbursed expenses for manpower
assigned to the project.
10.    Use of local consultants by the international consultants creates capacity within the country
and can help sustain the project.
Development of local consultants by the intemational consultants has many advantages in a project, no
matter how well financed it is. Local consultants with some degree of expertise can build on that
knowledge more rapidly than client personnel, since they do not have to deal with the everyday business of
the agency. Thus, they can assist in the work from the beginning and can remain as a resource after the
project at a cost more affordable to the client. Local consultants can also add specialized knowledge that
neither the client nor the consultant has, such as specialized legal and business knowledge.
While Bank procurement policy lists the employment of local consultants as acceptable, it does not
emphasize it. Each project needs to assess how to include and develop a strong local presence. This can be
done in the design of the procurement strategy, including the evaluation criteria.
The Australia IDP consultant made excellent use of local resources who are now employed by the NSSI as
needed for improvements and to assist the NSSI team in the maintenance of the developed systems at a
much lower costs than the Institute would have to incur if it were to rely on the same international
consultants who developed its business processes and computer systems.
- 34 -






II ---I
DMAGONG
Report No.:       25113
Type:    ICR



