Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15531-BUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
July 30, 1996
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Leva
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Leva per US$)
Dec. 1994       Dec. 1995          Feb. 1996      July 1996
38.7            68.0              72.0           157.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BULGARIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        -         Country Assistance Strategy
CEE        -         Central and Eastern Europe
CY         -         Calendar Year
DCON       -        Department of Construction
ESW        -        Economic and Sector Work
EU PHARE -           European Union PHARE Program
GDP        -         Gross Domestic Product
GDSI       -         General Directorate of Social Insurance
IBRD       -         International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ICB        -         International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -        International Development Association
IS         -         International Shopping
LIB        -        Limited International Bidding
LS         -        Local Shopping
LSDP       -        Letter of Sectoral Development Policy
MOF        -         Ministry of Finance
MOLSA    -           Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
NSSI       -         National Social Security Institute
PAYG       -         Pay-As-You-Go
PIP        -         Project Implementation Plan
PIU        -         Project Implementation Unit
PCU        -         Project Coordination Unit
POM        -         Project Operational Manual
SBD        -         Standard Bidding Documents
SSF        -         Social Security Fund
SIIS       -         Social Insurance Information System
SOE        -         Statement of Expenditure
TA         -         Technical Assistance
TORs       -         Terms of Reference
USAID      -         United States Agency for International Development
VAT        -         Value Added Tax



REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary    .....................................                                                   i
I. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE .1
A. Introduction .1
B. Social Protection in Bulgaria - An Overview.                                                                2
C. The Social Insurance Program  - Background, Recent Trends and Key Issues                                    4
- Background  .........................................                                                   4
- Recent Trends and Key Issues   .............................                                            6
D. Government Policies and Reform  Proposals   ......................                                          9
- First-Phase Reforms   ...................................                                               9
- Second-Phase Reforms  ..................................                                               12
- Expected Impact  ......................................                                                13
II.  THE PROJECT    .........................................                                                     15
A. Project Objectives   ......................................                                               15
B. Project Description    .....................................                                              15
C. Project Justification   .....................................                                             24
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                                                      33
A. Introduction   ..........................................                                                 33
B. Project Cost  ..........................................                                                  33
C. Project Financing    ......................................                                               34
D. Administration of Project Funds .............................                                             35
E. Project Management and Implementation  ........................                                           35
F.  Project Procurement Arrangements    ...........................                                          36
G. Disbursements   ........................................                                                  36
H. Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation  .........................                                         37
I.  Status of Preparation    ....................................                                            37
IV. BENEFITS AND  RISKS   ....................................                                                    39
A. Project Benefits  ........................................                                                39
B. Project Risks   .........................................                                                 40



Table of Contents
(Continued)
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...                            ..........         43
ANNEX I - NSSI Organization and Functions .........................                           45
ANNEX 2 - Evaluation of Impact of Governent Reforms  .................                        53
ANNFX 3 - Letter of Sectoral Development Policy  ......................                       65
ANNEX 4 - Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact  .........................                          73
ANNEX 5 - Project Implementation Plan  ............................                           85
MAP: IBRD-27968
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Bulgaria in February 1996. The mission was
comprised of Neeta Sirur (Mission Leader, Senior Economist, EC1/2HR); Emily Andrews (Human Resources
Economist, EC1/2HR); Carlos Ferreira (Chief, Information Technology, EMTDR); Virginia H. Jackson
(Operatioiis Officer, EC1/2HR); Galina Sotirova (Operations Officer, Resident Mission, Bulgaria); Jaimne
Vasquez-Caro (Tax Administration Specialist, Resident Mission, Hungary); Paola Zanichelli and Angelo Colucci
(Consultants/Information System Specialists). Task Manager: Emily Andrews (EC1/2HR); Division Chief:
Ralph W. Harbison (EC1/2HR); Director: Kenneth G. Lay (EC1DR); Peer Reviewers: David Lindeman (PSP);
John Wilton (FRSCR). Hera Sutrisna (Senior Staff Assistant, EC1/2HR) was responsible for document
processing.



REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:           Republic of Bulgaria
BENEFICIARIES:    Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA), National Social Security
Institute (NSSI).
LOAN AMOUNT:   US$24.3 million equivalent
TERMS:              Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD standard
variable interest rate.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVES:         The overall goal of the Social Insurance Administration Project is to support
and sustain the Government's social insurance reform program. Specifically,
the project aims to support Government's current reform goals of eliminating
the budgetary subsidy for social insurance payments due through the
achievement of fiscal balance in the Social Insurance Fund and laying the
groundwork for future reforms aimed at more fundamental restructuring of
Bulgaria's system for guaranteeing income security through social insurance.
Therefore, the project will: (a) strengthen efforts to increase NSSI's overall
operational efficiency in today's emerging market economy, with a focus on
reversing the trend towards reduced tax compliance which is undermining the
financial stability of the public Pay-As-You-Go social insurance program; and
(b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the newly created NSSI to perform
key policy formulation and evaluation functions and better manage resources.
PROJECT
ESCRIPTIQN:         The proposed project will provide financing for computer and
telecommunications hardware and software, fellowships, study tours, foreign
and local training and expert advisory services, public education materials,
office upgrading, and incremental recurrent costs. The estimated total cost of
the project is US$32.3 million, of which US$24.3 million will be financed by
the Bank loan. The project will be implemented over a period of four years by
NSSI, and will consist of two components:
Increasing Compliance and Operational Efficiency (estimated base cost
US$25.8 million). This component is aimed at instituting effective operational
procedures for inter alia: (a) control and monitoring of the flow of funds into
and out of the social insurance system; (b) improved revenue/expenditure
projection and the calculation of benefits on the basis of actual contribution;
and (c) improved services to clients, including efficient payment of pensions
and short-term benefits. Improvements in each of these areas will be achieved
through creation of an integrated Social Insurance Information System (SIS),
based on the institution of a unique identifier for each individual and
enterprise.



- ii -
Strengthening Institutional Capacity (estimated base cost US$ 2.8 million).
This component is designed to support the functioning of the newly created
NSSI and especially to add institutional capacity to conduct functions that were
previously less important, including: (a) policy analysis; (b) actuarial
forecasting; (c) public information/education concerning the social insurance
program and (d) personnel management, including improvements in staff
selection, incentives, and training and career development.
BENEFITS:             The project's major benefit is its expected impact on social insurance fund
balances. The ratio of the net gain in revenue to the cost of the loan is 15.2 to
1 in the year 2000 (the first year that benefits from the new system can be
expected), even under pessimistic assumptions concerning project impact on
the tax compliance rate, and 92.8 to 1 if more optimistic assumptions are
adopted. The internal rate of return to the loan in the year 2004 is estimated
to be 38.5 percent, or 70 percent, depending on whether pessimistic or
optimistic assumptions are used, compared to a nominal interest rate of 24.25
percent. The pessimistic scenario assumes that fund revenues would increase
by 1 percent relative to the base case as a result of project activities, while the
optimistic scenario assumes a 10 percent increase in revenues, a level
commensurate with that achieved through similar projects in other countries.
Two other project benefits cannot be quantified easily but are noteworthy
nonetheless. The first of these benefits is the reduction of the administrative
burden on employers (and improved services to program clients) as a result of
the project-supported transfer of responsibilities for social insurance record-
keeping from employers to NSSI. The second benefit is the improved policy
framework for social insurance that is expected to result from project inputs to
strengthen NSSI's actuarial forecasting and policy formulation capacity.
RISKS:                The project's main risk derives from NSSI's relatively weak overall
institutional capacity and, especially, its limited experience with externally-
funded projects. To strengthen the institutional capacity and minimize this
risk, Project Coordination Unit staff will be trained in project management
prior to loan effectiveness. Further, the project will provide to NSSI staff,
extensive training related to each project component. The exceptional
commitment of Government to this project also reduces the implementation
risk. A second risk is that Government's incentives to proceed with reform of
the broader policy framework will be reduced as project implementation will
begin prior to the enactment of Government's anticipated structural pension
reform. The project's support for the establishment of permanent actuarial and
policy offices within NSSI, however, can be expected to reduce this risk by
broadening the policy dialogue beyond a few top officials and strengthening
the technical underpinnings of specific reform proposals. A third risk which
could affect the project's impact is the concern that Government failure to
address some crucial short-term macroeconomic issues could destabilize the
economy. This risk cannot be reduced through project actions, but given the
relatively long lead-time before project impact is expected (34 years from
now), it is hoped that Government will have been able to bring the economy
back under control by that time.



- Hii -
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan"
Locald       Foreign       Total
-------------(US$ Million)-
1. Improving Operational Efficiency               8.1         17.7          25.8
2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity           0.7          2.1           2.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                    8.8          19.8         28.6
Physical Contingencies              0.6           1.8           2.4
Price Contingencies                 0.4           0.9           1.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'                2            22.5          323
Financing Plan:
Government                                        8.0"         0.0           8.0
IBRD                                              1.8          22.5         24.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS               9.8          22.5
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Million)
IBRD  FY                          FY97      FY98      FY99       FY2000       FY01
Annual                             4.2        7.4       5.3          4.8        2.7
Cumulative                         4.2       11.6      16.9         21.7       24.3
Cumulative as % of Total          17%       48%        69%          89%       100%
1' Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$2.9 million. Goods and civil works financed by international
agreements are subject to local taxes and duties. Detailed numbers may not add to totals due to rounding.






REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. Introduction
1.1          In the first four years after it embarked on its transition to a market economy,
Bulgaria experienced a more prolonged and deeper recession than most of its Central and Eastern
European (CEE) neighbors, characterized by a 30 percent decline in output, sharp deterioration of
external trade flows and a high rate of unemployment, which reached about 15 percent at its peak in
early 1994. As might be expected in this context, many Bulgarian households suffered tremendous
welfare shocks during the period, due, inter alia, to soaring inflation, job (and, hence, income)
losses, and the shrinking budget envelope which forced substantial real reductions in Government's
income transfers to beneficiaries of social protection programs. Although caused in large part by
external factors - the disintegration of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, the Gulf War,
and international embargoes on neighbors and trading partners - Bulgaria's prolonged recession was
also attributable to internal political instability and the failure of successive governments to steadily
maintain favorable macroeconomic policies after an initial burst of reform in 1991. Nonetheless,
1995 indicators suggested that the economy was beginning slowly to recover. In 1995, output rose
for a second consecutive year, unemployment declined (although it still remains high, at around 11
percent), inflationary pressures were receding and foreign exchange reserves were relatively
comfortable. While some improvements also occurred in the living standards of Bulgarian households
during 1995, these were insufficient to offset the severe declines of the preceding years.
1.2          At the present time, there is concern that the economic recovery remains very fragile.
1995's stabilization gains are likely to prove transitory unless bold structural reforms are undertaken
to: (i) accelerate privatization; (ii) initiate banking sector reform; (iii) impose financial discipline on
state enterprises; and (iv) reorient and further reduce government expenditures. In the first three of
these areas, Government is in the process of designing a package of policy reforms, the details of
which remain to be formulated/evaluated to assess their likely impact on placing the economy on a
sustainable growth path. Further information concerning reform efforts in the enterprise and financial
sectors is available in a number of Bank documents, including the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
presented to the Board in April 1996. Reform efforts in the fourth area are closely linked to
developments in Bulgaria's extensive social protection system - whose expenditures constituted
roughly one-third of total Government spending (about 15% of GDP) in 1995. However, to the
extent that expenditures on social protection programs have continued to adjust endogenously, due to
partial and ad hoc indexing for inflation throughout the transition period, actual benefits per recipient
are now relatively low (below half their 1990 levels in real terms), so that further across-the-board
reductions would be difficult to implement without jeopardizing the programs' fundamental objective
of acting as a safety net for vulnerable groups. This, in turn, means that radical reform of long-
established eligibility criteria and program administration will need to be implemented if



- 2 -
Government's objectives of long-run financial viability, "fairness" to program participants, and
protection of the needy are all to be met.
1.3            The Government is well aware of the need for structural reform in the country's
social protection system and, mindful of political realities, is formulating a carefully phased program
for change. Within social protection, its primary focus thus far has been on social insurance -- an
appropriate priority, given that expenditures on social insurance programs account for over 80 percent
of total social protection spending (see para. 1.6 below) and have the most far-reaching impact on the
welfare of Bulgarian households. Issues in social protection -- especially social insurance -- together
with Government plans for reform, are discussed in some detail in Sections B and C below as they
form the background to the project proposed later in this report.
B. Social Protection in Bulgaria - An Overview
1.4           As in other Eastern and Central European countries, the pre-transition Bulgarian state
provided the country's population with high income security -- principally through guaranteed
employment, cash transfers for children and the old, and special institutional and cash assistance
programs for the small proportion of the population unable to work due to long-term illness, disability
or the like. With the exception of guaranteed employment, this system of cradle-to-grave benefits and
services, predicated on compressed wages and higher-than-warranted labor force participation rates,
remains essentially intact today (though its effectiveness has been eroded by inflation), despite the
markedly different political and economic environment prevailing in the country. Furthermore, since
the start of the transition, the existing, essentially unreconstructed, system of social benefits has been
overlaid with new, "western" categories of transfers, such as unemployment benefits and new types of
social assistance, to help households cope with the unprecedented shocks stemming from economic
reform.
1.5           Not only have the number of social protection programs increased since the start of
the transition, but the number of people receiving income support from these programs has also
increased dramatically. For example, from 1990 to 1992, the number of new pensioners averaged
around 186,000 per year, due both to the normal increase in retirement associated with economic
contraction/falling labor demand as well as a government policy of offering early retirement to those
laid off by restructuring firms. Reversal of this policy in 1993 has slowed down the pressure placed
by new retirees on the pension system (with numbers of new pensioners falling since 1993 in relation
to the 1991/92 peak), but the current stock of pensioners still remains high at 2.5 million pensioners
in 1995 as against an employed population of about 3 million1' in the formal (and, hence, tax-paying)
sector. The numbers of persons registering for benefits at unemployment offices also showed
1' The potential workforce is 3.6 million according to the 1994 Labor Force Survey, implying that about
600,000 persons in the working ages are seeking but have not secured employment. In addition, the survey
found about 3.1 million people between 15-64 years (or 47 % of the age group) who were outside the labor force
(i.e., not employed and not seeking work). While many of these are likely to be students, retirees, home-
makers and discouraged workers, it is estimated that about a third of them, or about 1 million persons, are
engaged in productive, remunerative activity in the informal, generally non-tax-paying sector.



- 3 -
dramatic increases from 1990 through 1993, rising from about 58,000 in 1990 to 601,000 in 1993
before beginning to fall gradually. However, the proportion of registrants actually deemed eligible
for, and paid, cash benefits is relatively lower and has been falling in the past 2-3 years - from a
peak of 57 percent of registrants in 1991 to 32 percent of registrants in 1994. In addition, since the
passage of the Social Assistance Law in 1992, a significant number of Bulgarian
households/individuals are registering for benefits under this category of transfers. In 1992, about
810,000 social assistance clients received some form (often a one-time only grant) of cash assistance
with the number falling to around 550,000 in 1994, principally due to budgetary constraints at the
local level to which the financial responsibility for social assistance was transferred in 1993. Finally,
it should be noted that family allowances for children up to 18 years (or longer in the case of
students) continue to be paid to social insurance contributors and clients of unemployment and social
assistance offices.
1.6            Taken together, the three main social protection programs discussed above - social
insurance (including pensions and short-term insurance for illness/maternity), unemployment
(including cash benefits and active labor redeployment programs) and social assistance (covering cash
benefits, in-kind services and family allowances) -- are enormous in coverage, providing about 80
percent of Bulgarian households with some form of income transfer. Currently, total social protection
expenditures account for about 15 percent of GDP or about 30 percent of total public expenditures,
with pensions and short-term insurance benefits alone accounting for slightly over 12 percent of GDP.
Other programs are relatively much smaller, with social assistance (including family allowances which
form the larger portion) accounting for about 2 percent of GDP and unemployment benefits
accounting for the remainder. Financing for the social assistance programs is derived entirely from
general state and municipal budgetary resources, for the unemployment programs solely from
earmarked 5 percent payroll contributions by employers, and for social insurance programs through a
combination of payroll taxes on employers (averaging about 40% per worker) and budgetary
financing to cover what have been ever-increasing deficits over the past four years. In 1994,
budgetary support for the shortfall in social insurance revenues from earmarked payroll taxes was
around 1.5 percent of GDP.
1.7            This extensive social protection system, as currently structured, has serious
implications for sustainable and equitable growth. In the first instance, projections made using an
economic and demographic model indicate that, in the absence of any restructuring, support from the
general budget for social protection expenditures would have to grow from its 1994 level of 3.5-4.0
percent of GDP (social assistance plus social insurance deficits) to an estimated 5-6 percent of GDP in
the medium-term, even if Governmnent withstands pressures to raise the real value of benefits. This, in
turn, could contribute to unsustainable fiscal deficits and/or crowding out of needed investments in
infrastructure and human capital, with detrimental consequences for growth. Secondly, in Bulgaria,
as elsewhere, cash transfer programs and the high payroll taxes imposed to finance them have
contributed to disincentives for both work and job creation in the formal sector, contributing to rapid
informalization of the economy (with consequences extending well beyond the social protection
system itself). Bulgaria's low mandatory retirement ages have exacerbated the problem, as workers
forced to retire at still-productive ages offer their services in the informal economy. Finally, there is
some indication that, extensive as they are, the social protection programs may no longer be fulfilling
adequately the basic function of poverty reduction, due to poor targeting and constrained budgets.



-4 -
C. The Social Insurance Program - Background. Recent Trends and Key Issues
Background
1.8           General Features. First instituted over 45 years ago, Bulgaria's pay-as-you-go
(PAYG) social insurance program is now well-entrenched as an integral feature of the population's
strategies for coping with adversity. Primarily functioning as an insurance program, the Social
Security Fund (SSF), financed mainly through payroll taxes, provides pensions for the aged, disabled
and survivors and short-term benefits for workers temporarily unable to work due to ill health or
maternity and child-care obligations.Y In addition, the social insurance program also performs some
poverty relief or so-called "social assistance" functions, including payment of child allowances to
contributors and payment of social pensions to elderly citizens whose work histories would not
otherwise entitle them to earned pensions. While in theory, these latter payments are intended to be
financed entirely from general revenues via state budget contributions to the SSF, the current practice
of not clearly itemizing budgetary allocations according to their purpose (i.e., social assistance,
payroll tax contributions for state employees, deficit financing, etc.) makes it difficult to determine
the degree to which they are so covered. In fact, due to the continued integration of the SSF with
general revenue accounts, it is virtually impossible to establish the level of SSF revenues or, indeed,
the actual level of state budget subsidy to the SSF, with complete precision.
1.9           Organization and Management. Until early 1996, overall responsibility for
management of the social insurance program rested with the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
(MOLSA) - and within MOLSA, with the central General Directorate of Social Insurance (GDSI)
and 28 regional social insurance offices. As such, the MOLSA was charged with: (i) setting
operational policies/guidelines for the program within the framework of the 1950 Pension Law (and
other relevant legislation); (ii) formulating/initiating needed legislative changes; (iii) monitoring and
controlling the collection of payroll tax contributions from employers and the payment to them of
short-term benefits; (iv) auditing of employer records; (v) receiving and reviewing work and salary
histories of workers on the threshold of retirement and determining their eligibility for, and level of,
pension upon retirement; (vi) ensuring regular payment of pensions in cooperation with the postal
service and selected banks; (vii) handling complaints received from program contributors and
beneficiaries; and (viii) maintaining program statistics for reporting and policy development purposes.
1.10          Government has shifted the responsibility for management of the social insurance
program from the MOLSA to a newly-created autonomous institution -- the National Social Security
Institute (NSSI) - the legislative basis for the formation of which, and for separation of the SSF from
the state budget, was put in place in November 1995. While intended eventually to manage all of
Bulgaria's social insurance programs (including unemployment, workers' compensation and health
insurance, if introduced), the NSSI, in the first instance, is assuming responsibility for the existing
1 Because unemployment did not exist in the pre-transition period, unemployment insurance was not part of the
social insurance program. Although unemployment insurance does now exist, the program remains small and is
managed separately from pensions and short-term benefits. Health insurance, a key element of social insurance
systems in many European countries, has not yet been introduced in Bulgaria, where health expenditures continue
to be financed directly from general revenues.



-5-
social insurance program and the SSF. To ensure a smooth transition, the core of NSSI has been
formed by the transfer of the GDSI and regional social insurance offices (including all staff and other
resources) from MOLSA to NSSI. This transfer of staff and resources took place during the first
quarter of 1996, once NSSI became formally operational -- i.e., following approval by Parliament of
NSSI's Governor and tripartite Supervisory Board (representing Government, employers and labor).
A more detailed description of NSSI, including a draft organogram, is given in Annex 1. The
rationale for, and expected benefits from, the establishment of NSSI are discussed in connection with
the Government's overall reform strategy in para. 1.23 below.
1.11          Administrative Processes. The administrative procedures employed in the
management of the social insurance program have been inherited from the communist period and,
thus far, little has been done to modify them to accord with market economic conditions. At present,
NSSI maintains no records on employed workers, their salary/wage histories or contribution levels.
Rather, employers are obliged to record on a regular basis work, salary and contributions information
in the workbooks of individual employees, only certifying the information (including the wage levels
to be used for pension calculations) and forwarding it to the relevant regional social insurance office
when the worker is on the threshold of retirement. Thereupon, the regional office verifies the
information given in the worker's paper records to the extent feasible and forwards it to the central
NSSI office (formerly GDS1) in Sofia where a pension calculation is made and relevant data from the
new pensioner's records are added to a central computerized data base containing similar records for
existing pensioners. On a monthly basis, payment lists are generated from the central data base
containing information on pensioners and the amounts of their pensions. In turn, these lists are
forwarded, through the regional offices, to the relevant post offices and banks where pensioners are
able to collect their pensions in person-', in cash, upon presentation of appropriate identification. One
transition-related innovation in these otherwise unmodified administrative procedures concerns a 1992
decision to maintain records on a new category of contributors, self-employed entrepreneurs, within
the NSSI/GDSI central data base. However, the procedures currently in place for monthly verification
of earnings and related contributions for self-employed entrepreneurs are extremely time-consuming
and onerous, and constitute a serious disincentive for registering with the system.
1.12          As with maintenance/reporting of pension records, the existing system also places
heavy reliance on employers' honesty in the collection of payroll tax contributions and the payment of
short-term benefits and child allowances. At present, employers simply calculate their own payroll
tax obligations to the SSF, deduct the short-term benefits and child allowance amounts that they deem
to be payable to their employees from the SSF, and deposit the remainder to the appropriate
MOF/SSF accounts in designated banks. Employers are not required to furnish the bank or the social
insurance offices with the details of their calculations, nor, in most cases, do banks provide the
relevant regional social insurance office with prompt statements concerning the source and amount of
deposits received. Although employers are subject to audit, and the social insurance system maintains
an audit service, audits are conducted almost exclusively on a scheduled basis, in theory at least, for
all employers, with no effort to target. In fact, the frequency of even these scheduled audits is
probably falling, given the large (and growing) number of employers and a limited number of
auditors. While this collection/benefit payment system has the virtue of being relatively simple and
unbureaucratic, its inability to monitor and control compliance with tax obligations and benefits
' Special arrangements for pension pick-up are available for invalids and the disabled.



-6 -
deductions effectively invites evasion by a growing private sector in pursuit of profit maximization
(see para. 1.19 below).
Recent Trends and Key Issues
1.13          Declining Ratio of Contributors to Pensioners. As already alluded to in the
preceding sections, Bulgaria's social insurance program has been under considerable financial stress in
the transition period. In part, this is a direct consequence of the country's aging demographic profile
- over 21 percent of the population is aged 60 years or older -- implying that a relatively small
number of workers must support a large population of retirees even under a full employment
economic scenario. In fact, continued high rates of unemployment, increasing informalization of the
economy and the failure to adapt social insurance policies and administrative procedures to
encourage/enforce compliance in a market economy have severely aggravated the problem since 1990.
The number of contributors to the SSF has been declining steadily throughout the transition, with the
number of contributors in 1995 amounting to only 69 percent of the 1989 figure. This decline,
together with the increase in the number of pensioners in the 1991-92 period (see para. 1.15), has
meant that the number of contributors to pensioners fell from an already low ratio of 1.89 in 1989 to
about 1.16 in 1995.
1.14          Rising Payroll Tax Rates. To compensate for the drop in contributors, successive
transition governments have sought to bolster the viability of the fund by increasing payroll
contributions for remaining participants. As against a flat payroll tax rate of 28 percent in 1990,
payroll taxes on employers for social insurance are currently 37 percent for employees entitled to
normal retirement, 47 percent for those entitled to retire three years early and 52 percent on average
for those entitled to retire from 5-8 years earlyY  While these increases helped ameliorate some of
the SSF's short-term cash flow problems, there is some risk that they could exacerbate the longer-
term problem of a shrinking revenue base by raising disincentives for private employers and causing
more arrears problems on the part of many SOEs.
1.15          Low Retirement Ages. While reduced compliance has placed the SSF under financial
stress through its impact on revenues, Bulgaria's low (and mandatory) normal retirement ages (55 and
60 years for women and men respectively), policies allowing laid off workers to opt for early
retirement in the early 1990's (para. 1.5), and a dramatic expansion of the numbers of occupations
included in existing early retirement categories have placed added pressure on expenditures during the
transition. At present, as a result of successive governments' unwillingness to withstand political
pressures from occupational interest groups, nearly 30 percent of all Bulgarian workers are eligible
for early retirement. While, in theory, early retirement options are reserved for especially arduous or
dangerous occupations (e.g., miners, nuclear plant workers), in practice, a number of occupational
groups such as teachers and some drivers have sought and received early retirement privileges.
1.16          Low Value of Benefits. As previously discussed, the principal means adopted by
successive Bulgarian governments to manage pressures on expenditure has been through allowing the
real value of pension benefits to erode sharply (by nearly 55% on average between 1990 and 1995)
and at a faster rate than average wages over the past five years. Ad hoc indexing, usually with a
4' For an explanation of these early retirement categories, see para. 1.15.



-7-
fixed sum allocated for across-the board inflation adjustments, has also meant that the distribution of
pensions has become severely compressed, so that long-service, high wage workers are not receiving
pensions which are commensurate with their contributions. This, in turn, has important disincentive
effects on voluntary payroll tax compliance, further exacerbating the SSF's fiscal difficulties.
1.17         Benefit Formula Inadequacies. Inadequate coordination of policy changes made in
the 1990-94 period and failure to adapt appropriately the rules governing benefit accrual to market
economic conditions are also causing major problems. This is especially true of efforts to increase
private sector compliance by allowing employers to base their contributions on the minimum wage for
workers employed on civil contracts (as opposed to regular labor contracts), even if actual earnings
are higher. While this measure might indeed have brought more private employers into the SSF
collections net, the short-run impact on revenues has almost certainly been outweighed by the added
burden on future expenditures, under the (unchanged) benefit formula, which is subject to
manipulation. Under the official benefit formula, pensions are tied to the best three years of earnings
out of the past 15. Consequently, the system provides an incentive for civil contract workers to make
minimum contributions until they are within three years of retirement -- at which time they can
simply make higher contributions to ensure that their pensions are higher. Similarly, given a
relatively short full contribution period of 25 years for men and 20 years for women (including time
taken for maternity and child care) and no added benefits for contributions beyond an additional six
years over and above the full contribution period, there are no incentives in a market economy to
accrue credited service for more than 31 years for men and 26 years for women. To the extent that,
based on current (very favorable) retirement ages, men who start working at age 18 have 42 years on
the job and women have 37 years (assuming maternity/child care leave is accredited), rational
workers will want to spend at least 11 years in the informal sector. Under this system, those who
play by the rules are penalized and those who do not are rewarded.
1.18         Crisis of Public Confidence. The recent trends and problems encountered in the
PAYG social insurance program (paras. 1. 13-1.17) have led to a crisis of public confidence in the
program -- initiating a vicious circle whereby people's perception of the program's weaknesses makes
them less willing to contribute to the SSF, which, in turn, weakens the program further, necessitating
undesirable actions such as further increases to payroll tax rates and/or additional erosion of the real
value of benefits in a non-transparent manner. Chief among the factors which appear to be causing
reduced confidence in the program as a reliable source of old-age income support are: (i) the
perception that pensions bear little relationship to contributions made over a lifetime of work (due to
compression); (ii) the widespread belief that the reductions in benefits are not justified by financial
exigencies but may be related to diversion of SSF collections to other public uses, including social
assistance -- a belief fueled by the well-publicized rates hikes in contributions, the dramatic decline in
the real value of pension benefits in the transition period and the incomplete separation of SSF and
general budget accounts; (iii) the view that evasion or fraud on the part of contributors/beneficiaries is
rarely punished and can lead to greater personal benefits in the immediate- and, perhaps, longer-term
than can compliance with program rules; and (iv) inadequate consultation between Government and
representatives of labor, employers, pensioners' representatives, media and other public-opinion
makers on the day-to-day operations of the social insurance program and its financial status. In this
context, it is clear that any effort to reform Bulgaria's social insurance program must overcome
current perceptions of unfairness and lack of transparency in order to be tenable.



-8 -
1.19         Weaknesses in Administration. As suggested in paras. 1. 11-1.12, current
administrative procedures are ill-suited to a market economy, relying unduly on the honesty of
employers for much of the record-keeping on social insurance contributors, accurate payment of
contributions and calculation/deduction of short-term benefits and child allowances. This system was
generally workable in the pre-transition period when the numbers of employers (all state-owned) were
relatively smaller, their incentive to defraud the system was minimal, and employees tended to spend
their entire work-lives in the service of a single employer. However, it is breaking down rapidly in
today's changing econnriy characterized increasingly by profit incentives, the emergence of larger
numbers of smaller, privately-owned firms and greater labor mobility and unemployment. Indeed,
the absence, within the social insurance program, of systematic records -- in retrievable and
analyzable form -- on the contributions/claims of all participants in the system (employers,
contributors and beneficiaries) exacerbates many of the problems cited in paras. 1.13-1.18 above
and/or poses a major obstacle to their solution. Some illustrative examples follow:
*      Collections and related audit efforts are significantly weakened by the lack of computerized
monthly data on salaries, contributions and claims per employee which would enable the
routine conduct of statistical checks to identify instances of likely tax evasion/benefit abuse,
development of profiles of likely evaders, and appropriate targeting of scarce audit resources.
This, in turn, means that employers can (and do) manipulate the system to reap monetary
advantages with little fear of being identified or penalized. The downward trend in
contributions collections (even after accounting for high unemployment) accompanied by
substantial increases in claims for short-term benefits are probably mostly attributable to the
lack of control existing in the social insurance program and the changed incentives for
employers in a market economy.
-      Efforts to widen the collections net through cross-checks with tax, municipal and judicial
system records are hindered substantially by the non-availability of easily retrievable, up-to-
date records within the social insurance administration. Conversion of employer and
employee records now available only in paper form in workbooks maintained by thousands of
employers to a single computerized data base would substantially facilitate coordination with
other systems, especially if common identification numbers are used. A cooperative
framework agreement now being negotiated between the Ministry of Finance and the MOLSA
would allow for the use of common, unique identifiers (Ministry of Regional Development
EGN numbers for individuals and tax ID numbers for enterprises) and ease of coordination
between social insurance and tax authorities, provided both systems are computerized.
*      Improved services to clients (both contributors and pensioners) of the social insurance system
-- which could go a long way towards increasing public confidence in its programs - are not
feasible in the current administrative environment of scattered paper records but would be
greatly facilitated by the establishment of a central automated data base. For example,
collection of salary histories and other documentation, verification of records by regional and
then central social insurance offices, calculation of pensions and manual notification of post
offices/banks and pensioners concerning payment collection represent a considerable burden
on prospective pensioners and their employers and frequently contribute to delays in pension
receipt, imposing financial hardship on the pensioner. Moreover, there can be little doubt
that the current obligations of employers with regard to the maintenance/compilation of work,
salary and social insurance records are unduly burdensome (and getting more so as labor



- 9 -
mobility increases), constituting a considerable hidden tax when complied with. In relation to
contributors, the lack of records within the social insurance system implies that contributors
cannot be regularly informed of their contributions/benefit status, leaving them uncertain of
the benefits they will receive upon retirement -- and consequently less willing to contribute (or
ensure that their employers contribute on their behalf) to the system.
Proposals to close existing loopholes in the benefit formula by linking pension benefits to
contributions made over a worker's full career are not tenable under existing record-keeping
procedures, although highly desirable from a policy reform standpoint. Establishment of a
central data base containing earnings and contributions histories for every covered worker
would make possible the implementation of this crucial change to the benefit formula with
positive consequences for efforts to reduce expenditures and increase system fairness.
*     Finally, the absence of records on contributors within the social insurance system makes
accurate projection of SSF revenues and expenditures extremely difficult. This, in turn,
inhibits ongoing program evaluation, actuarial modeling and policy formulation - all crucial
functions as the market economy develops. Clearly, an up-to-date, central social insurance
information system would enable better forecasting, making realistic policy analysis a feasible
option.
D. Government Policies and Reform Proposal
1.20         The present government, given its majority in Parliament -- and hence the prospect of
relative longevity in office -- has embarked on a wide-ranging, phased reform of the social insurance
system, aimed at addressing the issues described above. The overarching objectives of the reform are
two-fold: (i) restoring the fiscal viability of the public PAYG system and adapting it to the needs of
the emerging market economy; and (ii) developing a workable and secure partnership with the private
sector in providing for old-age income security in the medium- to longer-term. The intended final
outcome of the reform is a financially sound, multi-pillar social insurance system, comprising: a
reformed, publicly-managed PAYG social insurance program providing basic coverage for about 40
percent income replacement linked strictly to (and reflecting) actual contributions; a limited number of
mandatory, but privately managed, occupational or professional funds covering inter alia some
existing early retirement categories; and voluntary, supplementary insurance provided through private
insurance companies and incentives for establishment of individual retirement accounts in banks.
Achievement of reform objectives is to be accomplished through a mix of complementary policy and
institutional reform measures incorporated in a two-phase reform process, which Government has
designed taking into account considerations of political acceptability and implementability. The
specific objectives and the modalities for implementation of each reform phase are described in the
following paragraphs.
First-Phase Reforms
1.21         The primary goal of the first reform phase, on which the Govermment is currently
embarked, is to achieve short- to medium-term fiscal balance in the SSF through concerted action on
the revenue side. An additional goal is to put in place the insitutional and administrative basis for



- 10 -
more far-reaching changes in the second reform phase which will be aimed at scaling back
expenditures (and overall size) of the public PAYG system and establishing supplementary pillars as
appropriate to market economic conditions. These goals, in turn, are to be achieved by three sets of
interconnected policy and programmatic measures to: (i) introduce the notion of individual or personal
responsibility for social insurance, initially though introduction of a personal contribution to the SSF;
(ii) encourage voluntary compliance with payroll tax requirements, principally through restoring
public confidence in the system, raising incentives to comply by adjustments to the benefits formula
and leveling the playing field through closing of obvious loopholes; and (iii) improve financial
monitoring and tax enforcement through improved tracking of contributions/payments, modernization
of audit procedures and revamping of the penalty structures for delayed payments/evasion.
1.22          On a policy level, the first-phase reform measure likely to have the most direct impact
on raising SSF revenues (at least in the short-run) is legislative action to introduce a personal payroll
tax contribution to the SSF. This tax was approved by Parliament for collection as of March 1996 at
a rate of 2 percent of gross wages. Although aware of the potential long-run drawbacks inherent in a
further tax increase (see para. 1. 14), Government has argued that these are offset by (i) the immediate
boost to SSF revenues and the consequent impact on budgetary support requirements in a period of
severe pressure to contain the fiscal deficit; (ii) the introduction of the notion of personal
responsibility (however nominal) for old-age income support in that this tax increase has been levied
directly on individuals as opposed to their employers as in the past; and (iii) the opportunity that this
personal tax affords for improved tracking/monitoring of employers' contributions via routine cross-
checks of individuals' payments against the contributions made on their behalf by their employers.
1.23           With regard to encouraging voluntary compliance with SSF obligations, a key
element of Government's effort is to bolster public confidence in program management through the
creation of the separate, autonomous NSSI (para. 1.10) -- with authority to manage independently the
social insurance program and SSF under the overall supervision of Parliament and a tri-partite
Supervisory Board comprising representatives of Government (including the MOLSA and Ministry of
Finance - MOF), trade unions, employers' associations and beneficiary representatives. The
involvement of non-governmental partners in program supervision is intended to help restore public
confidence in the social insurance system by substantially increasing overall transparency and creating
a mechanism for wider consultation on program issues. Establishment of NSSI and the subsequent
separation of the SSF from the budget can also reasonably be expected to lead to greater fiscal
transparency than has as yet been possible -- especially in light of the fact that interest earned on
contributions would now be directly credited to the SSF and transfers to the SSF from the state
budget would be clearly itemized so that allocations to cover state obligations such as social assistance
payments and state employee contributions would be identified separately from any transfers to cover
SSF deficits. Within NSSI, the planned separation of the SSF into two separate funds covering long-
term and shon-term insurance respectively will further enhance fiscal transparency and program
monitoring. Finally, the legislation creating NSSI includes provision for partial capitalization of the
SSF through the transfer to NSSI of assets of former totalitarian organizations and 20 percent of the
proceeds from privatization initiatives. This asset transfer can also be expected to help signal the
population that pension promises will be met. These assets are expected to be invested in government
bonds, at least initially.
1.24          Apart from encouraging public confidence and, hence, voluntary compliance, through
improved fiscal transparency, increased stakeholder involvement and partial capitalization of the SSF,



- 11 -
the Government's first reform phase includes additional measures aimed at directly strengthening
incentives for voluntary compliance. On a legislative level, two critical measures are included which
are aimed at closing loopholes that to date have allowed employers/employees to abuse the system
with impunity. First, payroll tax obligations with respect to civil contracts have been raised to the
same level as obligations with respect to labor contracts (see para. 1.17) both to enhance SSF
revenues and to provide a level playing field across individual workers and enterprises; and second,
an amendment to the existing pension law was enacted in early 1996 to lengthen the base period used
to calculate pension benefits, gradually to extend to an individual's entire contribution period. Under
the latter legislation, pension benefits will no longer be calculated on the basis of wages/contributions
in the best 36 months of a worker's career, but rather, on the best 36 months prior to 1997 plus each
month of work/contribution from January 1997 onwards5'. These measures can be expected to reduce
the currently common practice of declaring low wages and thus contributions (at least in official
documents) until a worker is within three years of retirement, with wages/contributions and hence,
eventual pension benefits, raised for the last 36 months of the worker's career. In parallel with, and
supportive of the intent of these legislative changes, steps are being taken to decompress benefit levels
by recalculating pension entitlements to better reflect actual earnings and SSF contributions. While
this latter effort will result in slightly higher pension awards for about 60 percent of pensioners,
pension levels for remaining participants are expected to stay the same or be marginally reduced. On
balance, the pension realignment effort was projected to result in some real increase in expenditure
(6% of tctal spending) in the short-rung', though on average, pensions would still remain around 45
percent below their 1990 values after implementation of the adjustment.
1.25          Concomitantly with the preceding actions to encourage directly compliance, first phase
reforms include a number of actions to better monitor and enforce compliance with SSF tax
obligations (which in turn also create an incentive for complying voluntarily). Central to this effort is
a complete overhaul of program administration (including redesign of staff functions at central and
regional NSSI offices) aimed at addressing the issues described in para. 1.19 above. The redesigned
administrative system -- the establishment of which would be supported through the project proposed
in this report -- would entail the use of information and telecommunications technology to shift the
responsibility for recording and tracking SSF contributors and contributions to NSSI and away from
employers. This shift would not only reduce the current (inappropriate) administrative burden on
employers, but would also enable NSSI to better assess and monitor the flow of funds into and out of
the SSF, cooperate with other agencies (including the MOF tax administration and municipal
authorities) in identifying and incorporating into the system the growing numbers of private employers
and the self-employed, and implement modern audit strategies based on targeted rather than scheduled
audits. To enhance the likely impact of administrative improvements, a cooperative framework
agreement is being developed between the social insurance program and the tax authorities to use
common (unique) identification numbers for individuals/firms and share information in efforts to
5' Effective implementation of this latter provision, however, is closely linked to reform of administrative processes
(para. 1. 19).
' In fact, it is unclear whether any real increase will occur as a result of this adjustment. Nominal Leva
amounts appropriated to pay for the adjustment assumed an inflation rate of 20% in 1996. Inflation is now
expected to higher, implying that an additional appropriation will be necessary if any real increases are to be
granted. Thus far, Government has not sought parliamentary approval for further appropriations.



- 12 -
detect/audit evaders. In addition, legislation will be developed to stiffen the consequences for SSF
contributions evasion. Regulations would also be implemented to bar banks from making short-term
loans to enterprises to meet payroll unless the enterprise is up-to-date with its SSF contributions or is
in the process of working out arrangements to clear up arrears.
1.26         A final element of first phase reform activities involves actions aimed at facilitating
changes to the benefit formula and program architecture (towards a multi-pillar approach) intended to
be implemented in the second reform phase. One key step which Government has taken in this
regard involves raising the mandatory retirement age by three years for both men and women, thereby
enabling workers to stay on the job voluntarily for a period of three years beyond the current normal
retirement (and pensionable) age. During such a voluntary extension, workers would defer collecting
accrued pensions and employers would continue to make payroll tax contributions on their behalf,
with obvious implications for SSF finances. A recent labor union poll found high support for this
voluntary retirement age increase among older workers, many of whom are likely to take the deferred
retirement/deferred pension option in the present environment where pensions are considerably below
wages. Public acceptance of this voluntary deferment of pensionable age is expected to make it easier
to implement a mandatory increase in both the pensionable and retirement ages under the second
phase of reform. Similarly, legislative action has already been taken in the first reform phase to
establish a multi-employer funded occupational insurance scheme for one major category of workers
currently eligible for early retirement. Legislation concerning the establishment of such a scheme for
teachers was approved in early 1996 and implementation is expected to begin in January 1997.
Experience with the teachers' scheme -- both political and technical -- is expected to facilitate the
introduction of similar schemes for other workers' groups entitled to early retirement under current
regulations.
Second-Phase Reforms
1.27         The second reform phase, to be implemented in the latter half of 1996 and during
1997, would be aimed at: (i) operationalizing the three-pillar social insurance system by putting in
place the regulatory framework (including tax incentives) for the privately-managed mandatory and
voluntary supplemental insurance schemes (para. 1.20); and (ii) revision of benefit eligibility criteria
and the formula for calculation of benefit levels to directly reduce PAYG social insurance program
expenditures. Details of the second phase reforms are still being refined and are expected to be
presented for parliamentary discussion/approval in the latter part of 1996. However, the basic
directions have largely been set and are expected to incorporate the following: (i) making retirement
conditions made stricter by raising the average retirement age; (ii) lengthening of work requirements
to gain eligibility for a full pension to better reflect individuals' actual work-lives; (iii) removing the
minimum pension requirement but retaining a maximum benefit level; (iv) reduction of accrual rates;
(v) removal of most early retirement categories from the publicly-managed PAYG system, to be
replaced by multi-employer funded occupational schemes, eventually to be operated on a defined
contribution basis; (vi) development of the regulatory framework and incentive schemes for the
establishment of supplementary voluntary funded pension schemes; and (vii) requirement of employers
to cover costs of sick leave for four days per sickness episode, up to a maximum of 14 days annually,
before receiving benefits from the social insurance fund.
1.28         Clearly, policy reforms included in the second phase would have a strong impact on
the PAYG program's expenditures. The reforms are likely to lead to sufficient SSF surpluses which,



- 13 -
when combined with privatization revenues (see para. 1.23), would enable the partial capitalization of
the fund (Government intends to build up a three-month reserve) and still bring about gradual
reductions in payroll taxes and/or increases in benefit generosity. The most direct effect on
expenditures would derive from raising of normal retirement ages and the transfer of early retirement
categories from the PAYG system to privately-managed funded schemes, similar to that being
established for teachers in the first phase. The transfer of the early retirement categories would be
accompanied by reductions in the payroll tax obligations to the SSF of their employers, thus lowering
average payroll tax levies and reducing the overall size of the PAYG program. The system's fiscal
integrity would be further strengthened by the proposed changes in the benefit formula given the strict
links to be established between pensions and contributory years/lifetime earnings. Since workers
could no longer "game" the system to receive higher benefits, they would be more likely to ensure
that lifetime contributions would be made in their behalf. While the credibility of the fund will
primarily be established in the first phase of the reform, the process will be strengthened in the
second phase. For example, the strong linkage between contributions and benefits would strengthen
the perception that funds could not be diverted towards other uses. In addition, the proposed reforms
to the system of short-term benefits will help ensure greater vigilance on the part of employers to
prevent abuse.
Expected Impact
1.29         Evaluation of the financial impact of the social insurance reform program by means of
a Bulgaria-specific actuarial model (constructed with support from the Japanese Grant provided for
project preparation) indicates that, if implemented as currently conceived, the reform would be
successful in achieving its stated objectives as described in para. 1.20. Simulations from the actuarial
model indicate that first-phase policy measures alone -- i.e., introduction of the 2 percent individual
tax and lifting of the mandatory retirement age by three years (paras. 1.22 and 1.26 respectively) --
would eliminate the need for budgetary financing of the SSF, if compliance remains at present levels.
Improvements in compliance as a result of modernization of program administration and improved
public confidence in the PAYG system would compound this favorable impact, allowing NSSI to
build up a three-month reserve to insure against short-term fiscal distress and still leave some
surpluses in the SSF -- beginning to create room for reductions in payroll tax in the future.
Implementation of second-phase reforms would substantially reduce SSF expenditures, further
increasing fund surpluses. In fact, raising of the normal retirement age alone (by three years for both
men and women, phased in over 6 years) would imply that the PAYG system payroll tax could
conservatively be reduced by 9 percent over the projection period (1996-2019), while continuing to
maintain a fund ratio equal to 25 percent of expenditures as a cushion against fiscal uncertainty. The
financial impact of the other second-phase policy reforms has not yet been simulated, but it can be
expected to further strengthen this favorable impact on fund balances, in turn allowing further
reductions in employer payroll tax rates. These reductions in the payroll tax, if implemented by
Government, would not only reduce labor costs with positive implications for employment but also
create a more favorable environment for the growth of privately-managed funded pension schemes
with their attendant implications for savings and, hence, long-term economic growth. Further details
concerning the actuarial simulations and their results are given in Annex 2.
1.30         In conclusion, however, it should be noted that although Government's current reform
proposals can provide the foundation for a mixed system of social insurance which is consistent with
long-term economic growth and the development of a market economy, as discussed above, there



- 14 -
remain important gaps in the definition of the second-phase reform actions and objectives which could
reduce the reform's positive impact. Most noteworthy in this regard is the absence to date of a
formal commitment to a specific target for benefits in terms of a maximum wage replacement rate
(e.g., 40% of wages), implying that continuous increases in benefit generosity could absorb projected
SSF surpluses, reducing or eliminating the opportunities for reductions in payroll tax rates. This, in
turn, would negate some of the potential benefits of the reform for the economy as a whole, by
maintaining high labor costs and slowing down the development of funded schemes. At this stage,
there is every indication that Government is considering these issues carefully (with appropriate
technical support from external donors, including the Bank), increasing the likelihood of favorable
decisions with regard to benefits and tax levels. Moreover, there can be little doubt that the reforms
already included in the first phase will contribute significantly to maintenance of fiscal stability by
eliminating pressures for budgetary subsidies for pension expenditures.



- 15 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1           The overall goal of the proposed project is to support and sustain the Government's
social insurance reform program as described in the preceding Chapter and outlined in its Letter of
Sectoral Development Policy (LSDP)(Annex 3). During negotiations, assurances were provided that
the Government will iinplement the strategy contained in its ISDP. Specifically, the project aims to
support Government's current reform goals of eliminating the budgetary subsidy for social insurance
through the achievement of fiscal balance in the SSF and laying the groundwork for future reforms
aimed at more fundamental restructuring of Bulgaria's system for guaranteeing old age income
security. Therefore, the project will:
(a)    strengthen efforts to increase NSSI's overall operational efficiency in today's
emerging market economy, with a focus on reversing the trend towards reduced tax
compliance which is undermining the financial stability of the public PAYG social
insurance program; and
(b)    strengthen the institutional capacity of the newly-created NSSI to perform key policy
formulation and evaluation functions and better manage available resources.
2.2           Linked to the above objectives, the project has two main components: Increasing
Compliance and Operational Efficiency and Strengthening Institutional Capacity, and will be
implemented over a period of four years. A detailed description of these components is given below
in Section B, followed in Section C by the economic justification for the project. The Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) is given in Annex 5 and summarized in Chapter 3 of the main text of this
report.
B. Project Description
Component 1: Increasing Compliance and Operational Efficiency (US$25.8 million base cost)
2.3           Overview. Aimed at supporting the achievement of fiscal balance in the SSF through
improved compliance, this component of the project will restructure substantially NSSI's operations
with a view to: (i) the development and implementation of modern payroll tax collection and audit
strategies; (ii) improved services to program clients, both contributors and beneficiaries; and (iii)
improved revenue/expenditure monitoring and projection capability. A fundamental tool in the
achievement of progress in each of these areas will be the establishment/maintenance within NSSI of a
centralized data base or register containing information (in readily retrievable form) on employers,
self-employed, employees and pensioners concerning key biographical information, wages
paid/earned, contributions paid and benefits received. The central register will be developed within a
flexible software environment with capability for addition of specialized software applications to
support operational improvements. In addition to the design/implementation of the central register



- 16 -
with its attendant hardware, software and technical expertise requirements, achievement of the three
identified programmatic priorities will involve substantial foreign and local consultant services and
training/retraining of about two/thirds of NSSI's 2,500 personnel to restructure and streamline
business processes at NSSI's headquarters in Sofia and at its 28 regional offices (see Map, IBRD
No. 26532, for office locations). Details concerning project activities in relation to the three
programmatic objectives listed above are given below.
2.4           Social Insurance Information System (SIIS). As suggested in the preceding
paragraph, the transfer of information from scattered paper records (now maintained by thousands of
employers and in employee workbooks -- see paras. 1.12 and 1.19) into a single, computerized data-
base within NSSI is a basic building block for launching the efficiency improvements in tax
collection, client services and financial monitoring discussed above. Therefore, the project will
support development of an integrated SIIS, the first step in the creation of which would be the
establishment of a central re2ister containing pertinent information on all social insurance system
clients, using unique identifying numbers for each individual or firm. To avoid unnecessary
duplication and facilitate future cooperation with other agencies, the ID numbers used for social
insurance purposes will be the EGN (internal ID number issued at birth by the Ministry of Regional
Development) for individuals and the Ministry of Finance tax number for firms. Prior to loan
negotiations, Government confirmed to the Bank its decision to use EGN numbers and Tax ID
numbers as the unique identifiers for individuals and firms respectively.
2.5            In line with recent legislation enacted by parliament to extend the base for pensions
(para. 1.24), initial start-up of the central register will involve the collection from employers/self-
employed of wage and contribution information for each worker for up to 36 months in the period
prior to January 1997 and for each month thereafter. Development of reporting procedures
(electronic, for larger firms and handwritten for very small ones), design of software applications, and
training and limited purchase of computer hardware for this substantial initial data collection/entry
effort are already underway with assistance from the Technical Assistance Loan (No. 3384-BU).
Based on this advice, Government confirmed at negotiations that, prior to loan effectiveness,
regulations will be issued to employers/self-employed to provide NSSI with relevant biographical
anid historical and monthly wage and contributions data per employed person (using the EGN and
Tax ID numbers as identifiers) in a form suitable for central register development. Inputs under
this project will, therefore, focus on the national implementation of the initial data collection effort
and the design/implementation of ongoing reporting requirements to ensure that the register remains
current. Although the detailed design of the operation and management of the central register (and
related functional responsibilities at regional and central level) will be developed following
recruitment of specialized expertise under the project, it is expected that data entry and updates will
occur at the regional level for the relevant geographic area, with data forwarded to the center on a
regular (e.g., daily) basis. The center, in turn, will maintain the complete register, define and
manage system administration, including setting standards for privacy and security safeguards, and
have primary responsibility for ensuring consistency and quality of information across regions. Each
region will maintain only a subset of the central register data-base, relevant to clients in its
geographical coverage area.
2.6           Beyond establishing the central register, SIIS development will involve the design and
implementation of a number of functional software applications (Table 2.1) which will allow for use



Table 2.1: SOCIAL INSURANCE INFORMATION SYSTEM: SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS
CONTRIBUTMON &                                                                                                          INTEGRATED
REGISTER             SHORT-TERM                 AUDIT                 PENSION               CUSTOMER                FINANCLAL                 SYSTEM
FUNCTION             MANAGEMENT              BENEFTiS MGT.             SUPPORT             MANAGEMENT                 SERVICE             MANAGEMENT               MANAGEMENT
OUTPUTS                  Issuance of Social     Data bas:              - Contribution         - pension paymnents    Information to          - Ftnncial systers     - Overall mnnagement of
Inance ID#:            - Contributions          evasion                 Pensioners data      contributors:            (budgeting and         operational functions
- Employces            - Salary               - Declarations            base                 - Statement of           accounting)          - Perfornance evaluation
- Pcnsioners           - Short term benefits    correctness           - Statistics             insurance status     - Payroll              - Security control
- Enployers            - Other statistics     - Tracking audit                               - Statement of         - Approved suppliers
- Self-employed        - Seniority and other    inspections                                    contributions paid
cbsrcteristics      - Updated regulations                          - Laws and
Statistics                                                              regulations
NATIONAL LEVEL            Iseue and control     - Long term storage    - Cross-check against   - Calculate official   - Issue statenents to    - Generl ledger      - Monitor regional [and
APPUCATION                lI#s                    and maintenance of     other data sources     pension                 employers,           - Budget and             individual] perfornmance
SOFrWARE                - Maintain vital          data collected         (e.g., Ministry of    - Monitor pension        employees and self-    financial statemnents   - Allocate resources
information          - Provide statistics     Finance, EGN, tax       data                   enmployed            - Payroll               - Manage data security
and actuarial          authority)           - Provide rtatistics                           - Suppliers              and confidentiality
projections            Legal and              and actuarial                                - Banks and credit     - Monitor coordination of
regulations data       projections                                   rmnagement             funsctions
base
REGIONAL LEVEL          - Accept reques  for   - Collect               - Cro-check            - Process new           - Simulate pension     - Manage regional      - Manage regional system
APPLICATION               and iuue new            contributions data     contributions          pension requests        calculations using     accounting systems     and resourees
SOFTWARE                  ID Is                   (electronic format     against payment                                data in system       - Provide financial    - Coordinate customer
- Acceu to National      or paper fonmn)      - Audit selection                              - Provide on-demand      data to Central         level system
Information data     - Collect, control,                                                     statements to          level
bases to avoid         validate and pay                                                      employers and
duplication.           short term benefits                                                   enployeca
disbursemcnts                                                       - Provide software
and forms to
employers and self-
employed and train
them in their ue.
- Support phone, fax
and letter hot-line
CUSTOMER LEVEL                                  - Support employers
APPUCATION                                        and self-employed
SOFIWARE                                          through data entry
system for filing
contribution data on
diskette in stndard
format



- 18 -
of central register and other pertinent information to support operational improvements in the areas
of: (i) contributions collections and short-term benefits management; (ii) audit; (iii) pension
management; and (iv) customer service. Development of these applications would be closely
coordinated with, and complement, the design/implementation of strategic and operational
improvements in NSSI business procedures (the main emphases of which are described in para. 2.9).
Apart from these externally or client-oriented applications and applications for central register
maintenance, three additional software applications would be developed to improve the internal
efficiency of NSSI operations -- including applications for internal NSSI financial management
(budget control, payroll etc.), human resources or personnel management and SIIS administration. It
should be noted that for cost reasons, suitable software packages for functional applications will be
purchased off-the-shelf whenever feasible, and adapted to local needs. Development of software
applications from scratch (generally a more costly alternative) will only be undertaken when no
suitable sceftware package is commercially available.
2.7          In terms of hardware architecture for the SIIS, the design option to be supported
through the project involves adoption of a uniform UNIX-based, open commodity-type system at both
central and regional levels, the basic specifications for which are included in the PIP (Annex 5). The
proposed UNIX system archtitecture will enable the maintenance of regional data-base subsets
necessary for performance of routine regional functions such as data collection, compliance checks
and customer service. It will also allow for the regular transfer of data from each region to the
center, which will, as previously noted, maintain the entire central register and use specialized
applications for national program monitoring. finally, the proposed UNIX based architecture will be
flexible and expandable. As such, it will be able to accommodate information for additional social
insurance funds, such as the unemployment fund or a prospective health fund, when and if these
programs are incorporated into NSSI as per current plans. The decision to use the UNIX-based
technology was predicated inter alia on: (i) the growing trend in information technology towards
open systems based on UNIX rather than proprietary mainframes, implying in turn greater availability
of standard software packages for UNIX and a larger number of hardware and software suppliers;
(ii) the need to minimize recurrent telecommunications costs which are extremely high in Bulgaria
compared to many othei Eastern European countries; and (iii) the larger number of Bulgarians with
training ill UNIX-based versus mainframe-based systems. Apropos of telecommunications costs, it
should be noted that although the SIIS would be designed in a manner enabling a complete transfer to
an on-line basis if and when telecommunications costs in Bulgaria are more comparable to costs
elsewhere, it is currently anticipated that on-line functions will be kept to a minimum in the short- to
medium-term so that only updates will be transferred to the center during the day with bulk transfers
to be done at night when reduced rates are attainable.
2.8           For the establishment and development of the SIIS, the project will finance
equipment, civil works, technical support, and staff training. Hardware and systems software for
both central and regional offices will be provided, as well as a modern voice and data
communications system and a security and access control system. The project will provide financing
for a full-time management oversight team of technical experts (80 months). The team will be
composed of a social security management specialist and an information technology specialist (who
will also be responsible for quality assurance). In addition, technical expertise (54 months) in
establishment of the central register and design and implementation of functional software applications
will be financed under the project. During negotiations NSSI confirmed that a full-time counterpart
NSSI team of technical informatics staff of at least four professional staff with experience



- 19 -
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of effectiveness. In addition, assurances were obtained
at loan negotiatons that the counterpart team will be maintained and fully allocated to the project
throughout project implementation. Training of NSSI staff in the use of equipment and software will
also be provided; it is estimated that approximately 65 percent of the staff will receive training in use
of the new hardware and software applications. Funds are provided for minor civil works to upgrade
the NSSI Headquarters building in Sofia and the 28 regional offices to accommodate the new
computer equipment coming in under the project. Finally, 10 vehicles - one for each of the regional
offices and Headquarters - will be provided to support communications linkages between offices.
2.9           Reform of Key Business Processes. As indicated above, the redesign of business
processes related to contributions collections, financial management, audit and customer services is of
central importance to the achievement of improvements in compliance and will be supported under the
project through the provision of specialized expertise and subsequent staff training. Project-financed
foreign and local experts will work under "twinning" arrangements with experienced NSSI staff to
ensure that proposed reforms are not only fully appropriate to the Bulgarian context but also are
backed up by practical procedures, guidelines, handbooks and other materials so that they can be
implemented in a predictable, monitorable and reasonably uniform manner. It should also be noted
that the redesign of business processes will be iterative with the establishment of the SIIS, given the
strong interdependence between the expected changes in business processes and the use of information
and telecommunications technologies to implement them. The key areas targeted for project support
are described below.
Payroll Tax Collection and Revenue/Expenditure Monitoring. As suggested in para. 1.19,
NSSI currently has only very limited ability to identify or verify the payroll tax obligations of
employers who, to date, self-assess obligations and pay taxes (with attendant forms) directly
to NSSI accounts in designated banks, without any accounting to NSSI. Moreover, periodic
statements provided by the banks to NSSI do not include information concerning deposited
amounts by depositor, making it difficult to check accuracy of payments even when payroll
tax obligations are known (e.g., in the case of some large firms). The first of these problems
will be largely ameliorated following the issuance of instructions to employers for monthly
reporting of wages/contributions in the context of central register development (para. 2.5).
To rectify the second problem, prior to loan negotiations, the Government formalized an
agreement with the bank handling the majority of NSSI accounts that individual deposits
would be separately identified in statements provided to NSSI, with depositors identified by
their name and tax ID number. At negotiations, assurances were provided that similar
agreements would be formalized with all other banks handling NSSI accounts now or in the
future. In the context of these regulatory changes, project support for monitoring/control of
payroll tax collections will focus on: (i) assisting NSSI to develop and implement procedures
(aided by SIIS software applications) for routine reconciliation of employer- and bank-
provided information to identify problems; (ii) developing reporting mechanisms and
procedures for scrutinizing short-term benefits deducted from tax contributions to minimize
manipulation by employers; (iii) reviewing filing procedures and periodicity of filing,
especially the now-burdensome requirements for self-employed entrepreneurs, with a view to
simplifying procedures and, hence, encouraging voluntary compliance; and (iv) providing
practical, hands-on training to regional and selected central office staff in the implementation
of suggested improvements.



- 20 -
Following substantial establishment of these procedures (including the development/
implementation of supporting SIIS applications) and the improved monitoring/enforcement
capacity which they imply, Government intends to take further actions to curtail manipulation
of payroll tax payments via misreporting or fraud in the area of short-term benefits. In this
regard, assurances were provided during negotiations that Government would, by December
31, 1998: (i) reduce incentives for employers to claim unwarranted sick leave by making
them responsible for benefits for the first 4 days per sickness episode, up to a maximwn of
15 days per employee per year; (ii) require calculation of the average wage base for sick
and maternity leave benefits over a 12-month period; and (iii) amend the labor code so that
the payment of sick and maternity leave benefits is contingent upon payment of full payroll
tax contributions on behalf of the employee. This latter provision, coupled with the recently-
enacted extension of the pension base to cover every month of contributions from January
1997 onwards, can be expected to increase incentives for employees to ensure that full
contributions are made on their behalf.
Audit. Complementary to, and supportive of, efforts to improve routine tax collection
procedures, the project will provide technical expertise, equipment (mainly lap-top computers
for auditors and related software) and intensive staff training to reorient the audit process
from a system of scheduled audits to one of computer-assisted targeted audits, appropriate to a
market economy. Project inputs will aim at a complete overhaul of pre-audit, audit, and post-
audit procedures as follows:
(i)   Institution of Pre-audit Activities. Development of pre-audit strategies and procedures
will focus on the design and implementation of a system to obtain, and use for
targeting purposes, the profiles of employers (both large and small) most likely to
evade social insurance contributions, fully or in part. These profiles of potential non-
compliers (and potential sources of evasion) will be computer-generated via
specialized SIIS applications, building on information available within NSSI's SIIS as
a result of changes to employer and bank reporting procedures and through design and
institution of a system of cross-checks with other agencies' information, especially that
of the Ministry of Finance's Tax Administration offices at central and lower levels.
To help ensure an appropriate climate for the requisite inter-agency cooperation, prior
to loan negotiations, Government finalized a cooperative framework agreement
between the MOF and NSSI confirming both instiutions' intent to cooperate in the
area of tax enforcement.
(ii)    Development of new Auditing Strategies/Procedures. Project-supported changes to the
audit phase will involve a move away from the sole use of full physical audits of
enterprises to the adoption of a broader menu of audit techniques ranging from simple
telephone or mail inquiries for clarification of minor filing errors to complex audits
involving collection of all relevant financial information through on-site visits to
companies and incorporating computer-assisted personal interview procedures.
Project inputs will not only help design and train auditors to implement this wider
range of audit procedures but also assist in the development of criteria for use of the
different audit techniques and help develop materials (including software applications)
necessary to bolster audit performance. In addition, a review will be conducted of



- 21 -
the laws and regulations governing disclosure of information by employers and
recommendations made for improvements as warranted.
(iii)   Reorientation of Post-Audit Strategies. Project assistance in the area of post-audit
activities will be oriented mainly towards increasing their potential for encouraging
voluntary compliance and greater speed in the clearance of arrears, rather than
focusing purely on punishment of evaders. Inter alia, a main focus of project support
will be the review of (and implementation of necessary changes to) strategies for
collection of arrears, the workings of the appeals process and the impact of recent
legislative changes to stiffen penalties for evaders (para. 1.24). In this context,
Government ensured that the conduct of a review of the penalty structure for non-
compliance or arrears would be completed no later than December 31, 1999, and
that modification of the penalty structure in accordance with the findings of the
review would be legislated no later than March 30, 2000.
*      ( ustomer Service. The final area of NSSI business process innovation involving intensive
project inputs relates to improving services for social insurance clients. These service
improvements will be aimed at encouraging voluntary compliance through: (i) lowering costs
to clients (both contributors and beneficiaries) of participating in the system; and
(ii) bolstering policy and institutional measures to increase public confidence in the viability of
the SSF through complementary service improvements. A key additional goal will be to
curtail the recent (costly) trend towards establishing multiple sub-offices linked to NSSI
regional offices in an effort to better reach the growing NSSI client base.2' In this context,
project support in the area of customer service will, in the first instance, focus on the
development and implementation of strategies for new operating procedures to reduce the need
for face-to-face contacts between NSSI and its clients. In large measure, this will involve
development of the capability of NSSI's customer service personnel to handle efficiently all
routine and a substantial proportion of complex customer enquiries by mail, fax and telephone
(upgraded capabilities for telephone and facsimile machines would be provided through the
project), supported by access to computerized contributor and beneficiary records via special
applications of the SIIS. Secondlv, the project will assist NSSI to design, and generate
automatically via the SIIS, periodic statements concerning the contribution and/or benefit
status of each social insurance client which would be forwarded by mail on at least an annual
basis. Finally, technical advice will be provided through the project to ensure that the full
benefits to clients of the establishment of the SIIS are realized. Inter alia, this will involve
changes to existing practices to: (i) eliminate the present burden on employers/retirees to
collect and submit wage and contributions histories at the point of retirement and develop the
requisite application to generate the information directly from the SIIS; (ii) increase the
timeliness and accuracy of pension payments through the automatic generation by the SIIS of
payment instructions to banks and post offices in place of manually-prepared lists; and (iii) as
banking conditions permit, replace the current cumbersome system of cash payments of
pensions with check or direct deposit payments issued automatically by the SIIS.
7' The growth in the client base results from the emergence of thousands of new private micro-, small-, and
medium-enterprises since the start of the transition as well as larger numbers of beneficiaries following generous
early retirement provisions in the 1991-92 period.



- 22 -
2.10          To improve communications linkages with the NSSI office network, the project will
finance investments to improve electronic communications between Headquarters and the 28 regional
offices. This will include rewiring of the NSSI buildings and installation of Private Branch
Exchanges (PBEs) and telephone sets. Technical assistance (16 months) will focus on developing
system design and specifications, and oversight of the new system. In addition, a security and access
control system will be introduced to improve the security of the information system. Under the
project, three months of technical assistance will be provided to develop a security policy and
administrative procedures, and necessary equipment and accessories will be provided for
establishment of a Central Security Unit and Regional Security Units.
2.11          For reform of key business processes, the project will finance eight months of
technical expertise for collections, compliance and audit functions. The project will also provide
financing for both foreign and local technical assistance in the amount of 60 months for re-
engineering of business processes and related software customization in the areas of contributions and
short-term benefits, pensions, audit, customer services, and financial management. The project will
finance requisite software packages, and related training and continuing education courses to enhance
the skills of NSSI personnel working in both headquarters and the regional offices. It is estimated
that about 60 percent of the training of NSSI staff will be done by local consultants. Periodic
seminars and/or workshops for information and exchange of experience will also be organized.
Component 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$2.8 million base cost)
2.12          Overview. The second, and smaller, component of the proposed project is designed
to support the functioning of the newly-created NSSI and especially, to add institutional capacity to
conduct functions that were previously less important, including policy analysis, actuarial forecasting,
public information/education concerning the social insurance program and personnel management
(including staff development). As the economy moves towards a more flexible labor market with
increasing private-sector employment, the social insurance system will need an expanded and
modernized capacity to analyze program performance, initiate and institute changes in policy, and
publicize program initiatives. It will also need to establish a human resource department for the
Institute to increase the effectiveness of the staff, through improvements in staff selection, incentives,
and training and career development. The recent separation of NSSI from the MOLSA creates a
unique opportunity to implement such changes. Consequently, this component will establish within
NSSI the capacity to carry out the following four functions more effectively: (i) actuarial analysis;
(ii) program evaluation and policy development; (iii) public affairs; and (iv) human resource
development (personnel management). An organizational structure for NSSI incorporating these
functions was finalized prior to project negotiations. In addition, NSSI will, prior to loan
effectiveness, appoint at least three professional staff to each of the policy analysis, actuarial
forecasting, human resources, and public affairs units to be supported through the project.
Moreover, during negotiations, assurances were provided that the annual workplans of the first
three units would be submitted to the Bank for review and technical comment prior to the start of
each calendar year within the project implementation period. Project subcomponents in each of
these areas (and their rationale) are described in paras. 2.13-2.16 below.



- 23 -
2.13          Statistics and Actuarial Analysis. At the present time, the Analysis and Prognosis
Department of the NSSI projects fund revenues and expenditures for social insurance programs one
year into the future. With the development of a market economy, longer-run projections are needed
to ensure that current and future policies support the financial viability of the social insurance system.
Ongoing Bulgarian efforts to develop this capacity have included a number of preparatory activities,
including model development and training, with support from the Japanese Grant for project
preparation activities. However, the full establishment of an ongoing actuarial office has not yet been
completed. Consequently, the project will assist the Government in establishing the capacity to
conduct actuarial analysis within a flexible framework. As a result, NSSI will have access to
(i) short-term and long-term projections of program revenues and expenditures under the current
social insurance system; (ii) short-term and long-term simulations of revenues and expenditures under
different economic and demographic assumptions; and (iii) short-term and long-term simulations of
revenues and expenditures under proposals for reform. Under the project, eight months of technical
assistance, training and office equipment will be provided to establish a statistics and actuarial office
to satisfy data requirements and to provide a training program in actuarial practices and the use of
actuaries in government.
2.14          Policy Evaluation and Analysis. The NSSI will need a policy evaluation and
analysis capacity that is broader in scope than that provided through actuarial analysis to ensure that
the social insurance system remains on a sound financial footing and provides equitable benefits to
recipients consistent with program objectives. The separation of the NSSI from the MOLSA
accentuates the need for a separate policy office to evaluate current and proposed policy changes and
recommend program alternatives to policy-makers. The project will assist the NSSI to develop an
ongoing capacity to provide policy makers with (i) analyses of the welfare and demographic impacts
of current programs and program changes; (ii) analyses of the impact of program changes within the
broader context of the economy; (iii) analyses of the legal implications of the proposed policy
changes; and (iv) analyses of the capacity of the system to absorb these changes. Under the project,
10 months of technical assistance, training and office equipment will be provided to establish a policy
unit within NSSI and to develop a plan for the production of studies and reports. The project will
also provide two months of technical assistance to help establish data sources and develop a training
program on the use of policy analysis in government-sponsored social insurance programs.
2.15          Public Affairs. Currently, public affairs activities are only performed sporadically
and in a reactive rather than pro-active fashion. With the establishment of NSSI as an autonomous
institute and the upcoming policy reform program, it is increasingly important that the policy reforms
be introduced in a positive environment, and that the public receive educational and informational
materials about the social insurance program. Thus the project will support the establishment of a
public affairs unit within the NSSI. The public affairs office will provide: (i) a source of ongoing
contact and outreach to the media; and (ii) direct information to fund contributors and beneficiaries.
Under the project, four months of technical assistance will be provided for the development of the
office's mission statement, procedures and activities. In addition, a training program will be
developed for the public affairs staff and NSSI managers who are the public representatives of the
social insurance system. The project will also provide support in the form of office and a limited
amount of audio-visual equipment for the new unit as well as financing for the costs of designing and
implementing three public information campaigns related to policy innovations and changing operating
practices of the social insurance program as they affect system clients.



- 24 -
2.16         Human Resource Development. The NSSI presently has a staff of some 2,630
people, including the regional offices. The newly established Human Resources office, consisting of
only two staff, handles all personnel administration functions. Resource management capacity is non-
existent - job classification and descriptions have not been developed, and there is no training and
career development strategy. Now that the NSSI is autonomous, a modem and efficient human
resource management capacity needs to be developed. The project will support the development of
this human resource function at NSSI. Specifically, 16 months of technical assistance and
management training for office personnel and office equipment will be provided for each of three
units as follows: (i) recruitment and placement; (ii) compensations and benefits; and (iii) training and
career development. The Recruitment and Placement Unit will be responsible for personnel planning,
job classifications and descriptions, evaluation and promotion, as well as personnel administration.
'T'he Compensations and Benefits Unit will be responsible for negotiations of contracts, salaries and
benefits packages, and monitoring of occupational safety compliance. The Training and Career
Development Unit will be responsible for preparation and management of the staff training program,
preparation of a career development strategy, and establishment of a career development information
service. Two months of technical assistance will also be provided to carry out a study of best options
for management of the assets for which the NSSI is now responsible. Funds are also planned for a
minibus to provide transport for staff involved in training activities. During negotiations, assurances
were provided that training and staff development plans covering the upcoming 12-month period
will be submitted to the Bank for review and comment no later than the end of each calendar year
throughout the project implementation period.
2.17         Project Coordination. For the project to be implemented smoothly and efficiently,
the project activities have to be coordinated and monitored effectively, communications and linkages
between implementing institutions maintained, and resources made available to implementing units in
a timely and effective manner. For this purpose, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been
established, reporting directly to the Office of the Governor of NSSI. The PCU consists of full-time
qualified staff headed by a Project Coordinator, and supported by a project-financed core team
comprised of: (i) a project manager; (ii) a procurement officer; (iii) an accountant; and (iv) an
administrative assistant. The responsibilities, staff functions and resource requirements of the PCU
are further described in Chapter 3 and the PIP, Annex 5. The project will finance 5 months of
technical assistance for management support, workstations and other office equipment for the unit,
one vehicle to support PCU activities, and staff training in various aspects of project management.
Funds have also been included for annual audit services. To ensure prompt start-up of project
activities, NSSI, prior to loan negotiations, recruited and appointed staff to all PCU positions.
During negotiations, NSSI confirmed that the PCU will be maintained throughout the project
implementation period with staffing, functions and authorities acceptable to the Bank.
C. Project Justification
.18          Overview. The development of an affordable social insurance strategy is essential to
macroeconomic stability as social insurance expenditures frequently represent a drain on the budget
through the need for budgetary subsidies. Further, if these expenditures are financed through
excessively high payroll tax rates, either employment will fall or non-compliance will increase,



- 25 -
threatening the stability of a country's entire tax base. Until recently, the social insurance program in
Bulgaria threatened macroeconomic stability by requiring substantial budgetary inflows, even as
payroll-tax rate increases were enacted. During this period, roughly covering the years 1989-1994,
discussions between the Bank and Government were generally unsuccessful, with little or no
agreement reached among the parties. Since that time, as Government has started to take steps to
rationalize the system, more fruitful dialogue has taken place. The proposed Social Insurance
Administration Project is a cost-effective strategy in its own right and is necessary for the successful
implementation of structural pension reform. Further, it can be an effective instrument for a
continuing policy dialogue.
2.19          As such, the project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
presented to the Board in April 1996, and in particular, with the triggers it establishes for social
sector involvement by the Bank. It addresses serious issues of compliance and fiscal sustainability
which were identified through economic and sector work conducted prior to, and during, project
preparation. In supporting the redesign and modernization of fundamental social insurance business
and administrative processes, the project reaps significantly positive fiscal dividends, although the
policy framework remains incomplete. The project mix, combining fiscal savings with the
strengthening of institutional capacity, particularly in the area of policy analysis, results in savings
that are far greater than the cost of the loan on a present value basis even under conservative
assumptions. These issues are elaborated further in the economic analysis presented in the remainder
of this section, which covers the following topics: (a) linkages to the CAS; (b) linkages to economic
and sector work; (c) public/private sector justification; (d) the adequacy of the policy environment;
(e) an analysis of project alternatives; (f) cost recovery and fiscal impact; (g) institutional capacity and
the regulatory framework; (h) poverty impact; and (i) environmental impact.
2.20          Linkages to the CAS. The Bank's core lending program for Bulgaria, described in
the April 1996 CAS, includes the Social Insurance Administration Project, given the project's
expected positive long-term effect on overall economic performance and its relative insulation from
short- to medium-term macroeconomic instability should it arise (see para. 1.2). Indeed, the
proposed project is fully supportive of the low-case country assistance strategy by assisting in the
establishment of institutional capacity which would help Government to bolster the financial solvency
of the SSF, improve service delivery to clients and conduct the necessary actuarial and policy analysis
to underpin future (more fundamental) structural reform. As a result, the project will contribute to
the country's transition to a market economy by directly improving government finances, and in the
longer-run, potentially encouraging economic growth through lower taxes and the development of
funded pension plans.
2.21          It should also be noted that Government's broader initiatives in the area of social
insurance reform -- which form the context for the proposed project -- conform closely to the two-
stage program anticipated in the CAS. Government has been moving forward on schedule with the
first reform phase outlined in the CAS, having already taken actions to: (a) separate fund finances
from the budget, and, in so doing, strengthen tripartite relationships, institute partial fund
capitalization, and legislate measures to improve tax compliance (including lengthening the
wage/contributions base for pension calculation to extend gradually to cover an individual's entire
worklng career); and (b) reduce expenditures by allowing workers to continue to work three years
beyond normal retirement age. In addition, legislation was enacted to include most working
relationships under the rubric of labor contracts, thus closing a loophole that enabled many



- 26 -
contributors to pay pension payroll taxes at a low rate, based on the minimum wage. Government
expects to implement the last major element of the first-phase reforms anticipated in the CAS with
support from the project proposed in this report -- i.e., modernization and automation of the social
insurance system with a view towards strengthening the monitoring and control of SSF finances,
increasing compliance and improving services to program contributors and beneficiaries. Second-
phase reform measures outlined in the CAS, and elaborated in Chapter 1 of this report, are intended
to (i) further reduce public social insurance expenditures through raising the normal retirement and
pensionable ages and making other changes to the benefit formula; (ii) put in place the legislative and
regulatory framework for the development of privately-managed funded pension schemes; and
(iii) reduce payroll taxes, at least for workers in early retirement categories and preferably for all
workers. Provided these measures, once fully defined, meet technical criteria for a viable social
insurance program supportive of economic growth, the Bank's high case assistance strategy foresees
supporting Government's efforts via an adjustment loan. Thus far, as discussed in Chapter 1
(paras. 1.26 and 1.30), indications are that Government fully intends to follow through on second
phase reforms. Social Insurance Administration Project inputs to strengthen NSSI's analytical
capabilities can be expected to improve the technical content of reform proposals. The Government's
continued adherence to a program of scheduled changes in social insurance policy is in sharp contrast
to the slow progress with respect to some other development objectives and priorities, e.g., in
banking and the enterprise sector.
2.22          Linkages to Economic and Sector Work (ESW). Bank ESW has consistently
highlighted the need for improved collection compliance and has heightened Government sensitivity to
the benefits of proposed legislative changes to contain program expenditures (and, conversely, to the
costs of inaction). A grey cover report, Bulgaria: Public Finance Reforms in the Transition, World
Bank, 1994 included an in-depth analysis/evaluation of all social benefit programs in the early years
of the transition, indicating that failure to reshape the cash benefit system was creating (and would
continue to create) serious fiscal and efficiency problems. In particular, the report demonstrated that
despite substantial erosion of the real value of benefits due to incomplete indexing for inflation during
the period, expenditures for social insurance and social assistance increased as a share of GDP, from
11.4 percent in 1990 to 13.3 percent in 1992, in part due to the sharper fall in GDP (30%) than in
social insurance expenditures. The report further noted that elimination of general revenue subsidies
to the social insurance fund could not be achieved simply by the increases in earmarked social
insurance payroll taxes which Government had already legislated but would have to complemented by
efforts to (i) further rationalize and reduce program expenditures; and (ii) halt the rapid shrinkage of
the tax base, especially via stepped up efforts to increase tax compliance in the growing private
sector'.
2.23          Informal ESW carried out during the early preparation phase of the proposed project
updated the preceding assessment of the financial framework of the social insurance system and
evaltuated the impact of several policy alternatives under consideration by government. A technical
note and subsequent addendum prepared by Bank staff in May, 1995 used a simple economic and
demographic model to simulate the impact on SSF balances of three compliance scenarios (constant,
81 As noted in Chapter 1, shrinkage of the tax base was also attributable to the decline in total employment and
labor income, but it was acknowledged that reversal of this trend was tightly linked to broader changes in the
economy, generally unrelated to actions in the social protection area.



- 27 -
reduced and improved compliance) and a number of other revenue-enhancing and cost-reduction
policy measures then being considered by Government. Inter alia, the analysis contained in the note
suggested that without concerted efforts to restructure payroll tax administration and enforcement
activities of the type to be supported through the proposed project, the continued growth in the private
sector (which then accounted for about 40 percent of GDP), would likely translate into continuous
reductions in the effective compliance rate. This, in turn, would imply the need for continued
budgetary support to the SSF, even if cuts to program expenditures -- e.g., increased retirement ages
for women and men - were deemed politically feasible and enacted. (By the same token, cuts in
program expenditures were found to be clearly desirable on a number of counts related to the longer
term need to scale back the PAYG program to a size more appropriate to a market economy, even if
compliance could be improved).
2.24          Finally, as mentioned in Chapter 1, the most recent technical analysis of the social
insurance program was carried out in early 1996 using a detailed actuarial model of the Bulgarian
social insurance system, which was developed during project preparation using Japanese Grant funds.
As previously noted (para. 1.29 and Annex 2), preliminary simulations from this model indicate that
the first-reform phase legislative actions to reallocate employer payroll taxes between the SSF and
unemployment fund, introduce a 2 percent tax on employees and allow workers to remain on the job
voluntarily for three years beyond the normal retirement age would eliminate the need for budgetary
subsidies to the SSF, provided compliance can be maintained at least at current levels (i.e., assuming
improvements to tax administration to keep pace with private sector growth via the proposed project).
The realization of improvements in compliance anticipated as a result of project interventions would
compound this favorable impact, enabling the build-up of a three-month reserve to insure against
temporary fiscal distress and create room for future reductions to the payroll tax.
2.25          Public/Private Justification. As discussed in a major recent World Bank study -
Averting the Old Age Crisis, A World Bank Policy Research Report, 1994 -- government intervention
in the area of pensions are usually justified on grounds that private capital and insurance markets are
inadequate and redistribution to the poor is needed. It goes on to note, however, that the forms that
government intervention might take are several -- ranging from simply dampening inflation in the
hopes of encouraging voluntary savings, to regulating private pension funds and/or mandating and
publicly-managing PAYG pension schemes. The precise mix of Government interventions in the
pensions area should necessarily vary according to specific country circumstances (e.g, stage of
development of financial institutions/markets) and the country's own historical traditions. However,
based on extensive cross-country analysis, the study recommends a mixed system, including a
publicly-managed PAYG pillar, complemented by privately-managed occupational and/or individual
funded-schemes. This pattern is evident in many industrialized countries, which have pension systems
that rely on both PAYG public plans and additional, usually privately-managed, funded plans. Such a
mix of pension programs both enhances old-age income security (by spreading risks across several
income sources) and can promote growth due to the increase in aggregate savings implied by the
existence of funded pension schemes.
2.26          Given the above context, Government's present emphasis on, and project support for,
Bulgaria's public PAYG social insurance program is appropriate, particularly in light of the present
problems in the country's banking and financial sectors which make rapid growth in complementary,
private funded plans difficult (and perhaps undesirable) in the immediate term. At the same time,
there can be little doubt that the current Bulgarian program, which was instituted prior to the



- 28 -
communist era and expanded during communism, is too costly for a market economy, burdening the
wage bill of employers, encouraging informal economy (untaxed) activities, and discouraging formal
sector employment. Consequently, the issue is not whether a public program should be in place, but
how its design can be made efficient and affordable and how it might be complemented by funded
schemes in the medium- to longer-term. Government's two-phase social insurance reform program
(Chapterl), to which the proposed project is integral, is aimed precisely at streamlining the PAYG
program and concomitantly diversifying programs for old-age support. By supporting administrative
changes to the PAYG system which would make it more effective and less expensive, the project
would help set the stage for future across-the-board reductions in payroll tax rates, which in turn
would imply greater room for the parallel development of a private pension system consisting of an
occupationally based component and individual funded pension plans.
2.27          Adequacy of Policy Environment. A detailed description of the policy environment
within which the proposed project has been developed and will be implemented was included in
Chapter 1, Section D (paras. 1.20-1.30), so will not be repeated here. It should be reiterated,
however, that Government has now largely put in place the legislative and regulatory framework for
its first-phase reform program which aims at eliminating the need for budgetary subsidies to the SSF
and hopes to achieve first-phase programmatic reform goals of improving tax administration and
compliance via support from the proposed project. Implementation of second-phase reforms aimed at
scaling back the PAYG program (both costs and payroll taxes) and promoting the establishment of
complementary, private, funded pension plans is essential before the overall social insurance policy
framework can be judged to be fully satisfactory. As indicated in Chapter 1, these reforms are
currently being formulated (in part with assistance being provided through the Japanese Grant for the
proposed project) and there is cause for cautious optimism that they will be enacted on schedule given
the Government's timely implementation of first-phase reforms and the political consensus it is
building in support of second-phase measures. Achievement of the goals of the proposed project is
not, however, dependent on successful implementation of second-phase reforms. In fact, restructuring
of program administration to improve compliance, reduce abuse and internalize the benefits
calculation process within NSSI must be initiated forthwith, before increasing labor mobility and rises
in enterprise bankruptciesfbusiness closures render NSSI incapable of effectively enforcing mandatory
contributions or of obtaining full work records upon which to base pension calculations. Should such
a breakdown in program management be allowed to occur, the impact of any legislated changes to tax
rates and the benefit formula would be considerably blunted, implying in turn that the proposed
project is an essential element of the effort to complete the process of policy reform rather than the
reverse. In addition to its expected impact on program administration, the project's inputs to
strengthen actuarial projection and policy formulation capacity can also be expected to facilitate the
design/implementation of second-phase reforms.
2.28          Analysis of Alternatives. Four project alternatives were considered prior to selecting
the final configuration. The first alternative considered was that of not providing any project
support. The second alternative considered was only financing Component II, the Strengthening of
Institutional Capacity. Two alternatives were considered for Component I. The first would have
provided a system of information technology without reforming procedures. The second would have
used a different technology than that recommended for the project. The reasons behind the selection
of the preferred project alternative are described below.



- 29 -
2.29          Project Not Financed. The most obvious alternative to the project would be not to
finance a project at all. The justification for this alternative would be the incomplete progress in the
area of policy reform. Other countries, such as Hungary, have obtained information technology
systems on the expectation of subsequent policy reforms that, so far, have not materialized. In the
case of Bulgaria, the benefits from the project outweigh the costs, even in the case of policy reform
failure. The project can be economically justified in terms of savings from improved compliance
alone (see paras. 2.32-2.36 below). Further, the strengthening of the Actuarial Office and the
institution of the Policy Analysis Offices will enable the NSSI to evaluate reform proposals,
potentially leading to greater fiscal responsibility. Third, the continuation of the current system and
the institution of a new system both require the collection of earnings records within the NSSI instead
of at the enterprise. This collection would be impossible without a new information system.
2.30          Institutional Capacity Strengthened.  If only Component II were financed, the costs
of the project would total about US$3.1 million rather than US$32.3 million. In this case, the project
would cover the strengthening of the Actuarial Office, the institution of the Policy Analysis Office
and the Public Affairs Office, and the strengthening of human resource (personnel) management. If
funding were restricted to these items, the project would aid in the development of policies for the
future and would strengthen the administration of the NSSI, but the concrete gains to the proposed
loan which derive from the development of audit and compliance procedures backed by a modern
system of information technology could not be achieved. Further, access to the data provided through
the new information technology is an integral part of the development of the Actuarial Office and the
Policy Analysis Office.
2.31          Information Technology Supported (No Procedural Change). The original request
from NSSI officials envisaged an advanced computer system that could be used to develop an
earLiings-record data base, few changes contemplated either in terms of audit and enforcement or in
terms of service delivery. Lessons have been learned from other transition economies, such as
Poland and Hungary, which have, for one reason or another, purchased computer equipment or
implemented new information systems without addressing the need for changes in operational
procedures -- resulting in little net improvement in program outcomes. Discussion of these
experiences during project preparation and pre-appraisal convinced the NSSI authorities of the need to
change the agency's service delivery and collection procedures, including audit and enforcement, in
conjunction with the implementation of technological improvements. In the area of service delivery,
new procedures are needed to provide assistance to future beneficiaries, as the responsibility for the
work-history documentation process is transferred from employers to the NSSI. Further, new audit
methods are needed to deal with the proliferation of private-sector employers. Under current
procedures, the NSSI tries to audit every employer once every 2 to 3 years. The NSSI employs some
650 auditors to cover some 260,000 registered employers and would soon have to greatly increase
their number. Modern auditing methods, based on targeting and taxpayer profiles, do not require
audits of each and every enterprise. As NSSI officials learned of modem auditing alternatives, they
quickly requested training and technical assistance as a precondition to the design of the information
technology system. Consequently, the project will implement the new information technology system
based on changes in procedures that ensure more efficient NSSI operations.
2.32          Selection of Information Technology. The technical environment for the information
system selected by the NSSI is a UNIX based client-server with Windows-based workstations
supported by a relational data base system, under UNIX, to manage data storage. Prior to deciding



- 30 -
upon this environment, another technical solution had been favored by NSSI, based on an ES9000
mainframe at the center and LANs at the regional offices. Here, too, technical discussions with NSSI
staff and exposure to the experience of neighboring countries convinced NSSI officials that the
solution now proposed would be by far the most efficient and affordable, given its relatively low
system maintenance costs. The capacity provided by the UNIX system for the maintenance of data-
base subsets at regional offices also minimizes the on-line requirements of the SIIS, thereby
containing what might otherwise be near-prohibitive telecommunications costs in the current Bulgarian
environment. The choice of a UNIX based client-server for support under the project represents an
important break-through in terms of computer technology within the Bulgarian government. (By
contrast, the Bulgarian Tax Administration is upgrading its system using more expensive and
antiquated main-frame technologies.)
2.33          Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact. The project will increase revenues through
enhanced contribution collections and reduce expenditures through more efficient benefits
administration. Further, it will reduce the time-costs of clients by the more efficient delivery of
services. The improvement in contribution collections results in savings similar to those observed in
tax administration projects funded by the Bank. One evaluation of the impact of tax reform in
Argentina (Morisset and Izquierdo, 1993) found that nearly three-fourths of the improvement in VAT
collection could be attributed to improvements in tax administration procedures. The study controlled
for the impact of increases in GDP, reductions in inflation, and increases in the rate of taxation. In
general, the institution of improved tax administration procedures can be expected to increase
revenues measurably, particularly when macro-economic policies provide a stable environment.
2.34          As the detailed cost-benefit analysis in Annex 4 shows, the project represents an
extremely cost effective use of investment funds on a benefit-cost basis comparing the net gain in
revenue to the cost of the loan. Under pessimistic assumptions, revenues are assumed to increase by 1
percent relative to the base case (while reductions in expenditures as a result of improved monitoring
are deemed negligible). This translates into a small increase in the tax compliance rate, that is, the
percentage of potential revenues that are actually collected, from 63.4 percent to 64.0 percent. In
terms of loan efficacy, the benefit-cost ratio, the present value of fiscal savings to the cost of the loan,
is 15.2 to 1 in the year 2000, the first year that benefits from the new system can be expected.
Other indicators of loan success are equally favorable, the internal rate of return to the loan is 38.5
percent in 2004 compared to a nominal interest rate of 24.25 percent. The present value of savings to
the fund is BUL 14.5 billion by 2020. Under the pessimistic scenario of project performance,
increased revenues could be used to reduce the current tax rate by 1.67 percentage points in 2004.
This represents a reduction of 0.4 percentage points more than could be considered under current
operational policies.
2.35          A more optimistic scenario of the cost effectiveness and fiscal impact of the project
was developed based on a 10 percent increase in revenues. This rate of improvement is comparable
to that achieved in other countries (primarily in Latin America and the Caribbean, given the absence
of evaluated experience in Eastern Europe) following the implementation of World Bank-supported
tax administration projects with activities similar to those included in the proposed project. In
addition to revenue increases, the optimistic scenario assumes some reduction in expenditures,
particularly for short-term benefits, due to the system's greater ability to detect fraud and abuse. The
quantification of savings from the reduction of inappropriate payments is purely judgmental, since
there is little past experience with success in this area. For purposes of the analysis, overall



- 31 -
reductions in benefit payments of 1 percent for pensions and 10 percent for short-term benefits appear
to reasonably define the potential for improvements in expenditure control. Based on these more
optimistic assumptions, the benefit-cost ratio, defined as the present value of fiscal savings to the cost
ot the loan, is 92.8 in the year 2000, (the first year that benefits from the new system can be
expected) and rising thereafter. The internal rate of return to the loan would be 70.0 percent in 2004
compared to a nominal interest rate of 24.25 percent; and, the present value of savings to the fund is
BUL 141.5 billion by 2020. These savings imply an increase in the tax compliance rate from 63.4 to
69.6 percent. Perhaps the most favorable outcome of the optimistic scenario is the finding that the
project would allow for a reduction in the tax rate of 3.5 percentage points by 2004 while continuing
to allow the build-up of a contingency reserve, implying an effective average rate of 37.8 percent.
By the end of the projection period in 2019, the effective tax rate could be reduced by 5.8 percentage
points, even when a contingency reserve is created.
2.36          The initial 63.4 percent compliance rate used in the actuarial analysis may well
represent an optimistic forecast of the revenues under current collection procedures. The growth of
the private sector will tend to reduce collections in response to current high payroll tax rates.
Nonetheless, even if reduced revenues had been incorporated into the actuarial forecasts, the project
will still significantly raise contribution collections above the base level due to stronger auditing
procedures and enhanced NSSI information. The ratio of benefits to costs might even be greater
under more pessimistic compliance assumptions, since the new system is likely to have a greater
impact on private sector collections than on collections from state owned enterprises.
2.37          The economic benefits from the project are underestimated by the fiscal analysis
presented above as staff increases that would be necessary to maintain current operational procedures
are not taken into account, nor are decreases in services and compliance that would result from static
staffing patterns. The expansion of administrative expenses in the short term is already apparent.
Administrative expenses for 1996 are budgeted to be more than 250 percent higher than their 1994
levels in nominal terms. By contrast, pension payments are budgeted to rise by just over 190 percent
compared to1994. Other economic benefits stem from long-run reductions in reporting and
administrative requirements for employers. Gains to workers and pensioners will accrue in terms of
ease of the benefits application process, better and faster responses to inquiries, faster processing of
decisions, and quicker and more accurate payment procedures. Quantification of these benefits is,
however, not practicable. Finally, it should be borne in mind that implementation of Component II
provides the means to promote public policies that will support economic growth and development.
While it is not feasible to quantitatively estimate the impact of these institutional changes on the
economy as a whole, the importance of tools to strengthen the policy framework should not be
underestimated.
2.38          Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework. The commitment of the NSSI
to implement the project is unusually high. While the NSSI has recently become an independent
agency, it remains fully staffed with employees who formerly worked at the Ministry of Labor.
Because project preparation has taken place in close coordination with the NSSI, the project is
designed to adjust to the limitations of the NSSI to implement and administer the new system.
Further, the project has the necessary political support (from both the Council of Ministers and NSSI)
to ensure successful implementation. Nonetheless, taking into account NSSI's relatively limited
experience with the implementation of externally-supported projects and the magnitude of the changes
to operational procedures that will be implemented, the project includes activities to strengthen



- 32 -
institutional capacity as follows: (a) staff assignments will be made to the PCU and training in project
management will take place prior to implementation; (b) project-supported technical experts will work
in close twinning arrangements with appropriate NSSI staff to ensure relevance of activities and full
transfer of knowhow; and (c) extensive training (combining on-the-job and hands-on methods with in-
country classroom teaching and limited external fellowships) will be provided within each project sub-
component.
2.39          The loan specifies a number of conditions that must be met prior to effectiveness to
ensure that the regulatory framework is in place. Perhaps most important is the designation of a
unique identification number that must be used by employers, employees and banks to record and
report contributions/payments and benefits eligibility. Further, the project requires that all necessary
staff and offices for project implementation are in place prior to effectiveness. In addition,
agreements on other regulatory changes are precondition for funding. Additional changes in the
regulatory environment are contingent upon the development of the project. For example, fines and
penalties in the area of collection compliance should be redesigned, but this redesign will take place in
conjunction with the technical assistance provided in the project.
2.40          Poverty Analysis. An early preliminary analysis of the structure of income and
social protection during the transition indicated that pensions were relatively evenly distributed across
all households, with low-income households receiving only a slightly higher share relative to their
numbers in the population. More recent analysis undertaken in the context of preparing a poverty
assessment for Bulgaria (scheduled for completion later this calender year) further documents the
situation of pensioners in relation to the incidence of poverty. This analysis indicates that if pensions
had not been available, nearly 1.7 times more households currently receiving pensions would have
fallen into poverty. Further analysis indicates that pensioners over age 70 have significantly higher
poverty rates than younger pensioners or others in the Bulgarian population, corroborating the
findings of an earlier study that reform should focus on enhancing pension benefits for those above
age 65. Of course, benefits were recently realigned to wages, reducing compression that had taken
place because of ad hoc flat-rate indexing. While data are not available to conduct an analysis of the
distributional impact of decompression, NSSI experts suggest that many very elderly pensioners will
have been helped by realignment as their pension-to-wage ratios tended to decline the most over time.
Nonetheless, if pension fund revenues are allowed to erode, the incidence of poverty among
pensioners could increase because restrictive indexing measures would again become necessary.
While this project does not directly influence benefit provision, its components may help promote
policies to combat poverty among the aged and disabled. First, the outcome of the project, buoying
revenues and preventing fraud and abuse, will enable governrnent to provide a better floor of
protection where protection is needed. While some might argue that the closer monitoring of benefit
eligibility could hurt the poor, a lack of administrative control is a generally inefficient means to
target poverty. Second, the institution of an Office of Policy Analysis, with a mandate to track the
economic status of the aged and disabled, will provide policymakers information to ensure that
policies are developed to maintain a minimum floor of protection for families entitled to pension
benefits.
2.41          Environmental Analysis. Environmental category C ("no appreciable environmental
impact') has been given consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E. The
proposed project is not expected to have any environmental impact.



- 33 -
m. PROJECT COSS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMATION
A. Introduction
3.1          This chapter provides a summary of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which was
prepared in conjunction with the Borrower and reviewed and deemed satisfactory by the Bank. The
PIP includes detailed information on the project description, costs, financing, management and
implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursements, audit reporting, and status of preparation.
The PIP is attached as Annex 5.
B. roject Cost
3.2          The total cost of the Social Insurance Administration Project is estimated at about
US$32.3 million, or about 4.4 billion Bulgaria Leva (BGL) equivalent, including contingencies, taxes
and duties. The total base cost is estimated at US$28.6 million. Physical contingencies are estimated
at US$2.4 million. Price contingencies between negotiations (May 1996) and the end of the four-year
project implementation period will amount to about US$1.4 million, or five percent of base cost. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$22.5 million, including contingencies, or about
70 percent of total project cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$2.9 million equivalent. The
tax exempt status of technical assistance expenditure was confirmed at negotiations.
3.3          The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical assistance, studies,
computer hardware and software, training materials, refurbishment of facilities, and incremental
recurrent costs geneiated by the project. The estimated cost distributed among project components is
shown in Table 3 of the PIP. Project costs are summarized by expenditure category in Table 4 of the
PIP. The project costs include about Leva 790 million or US$5.1 million to cover incremental
operating costs directly attributable to the project during the four-year implementation period.
Equipment operation and maintenance, and materials and supplies account for most of the project's
incremental recurrent costs. Incremental staff costs are negligible. Table 3.1 below shows summary
costs by expenditure accounts and project components:



- 34 -
Table 3 1: EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS
Totals Including Contigencies
(US$ Million)
knproving
Operational
Efficektcy
Integrated       Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Social                 Policy
Insurance               Planning
infomation   Actuarial     and       Public    Resource
System    Developrnent Analysis    Affairs   Management  Total
L Investment Costs
A. CMI Works                                    0.7            -                     -          -      0.7
B. Office Equipment and Materials              17.4          0.0      0.1          0.3         0.3    18.0
C. Vehicies                                     0.3            -        -            -         0.1     0.4
0. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development                         0.5          0.1      0.0          0.0        0.1      0.8
2. Capacity Building                          3.1          0.0      0.1          0.0         0.1     3.3
3. Profect Management                         1.8            -        -            -         0.2     2.0
Subtotal Technical Assistnce                    5.4          0.1      0.1          0.1         0.4     6.1
E. Training                                     0.8          0.0      0.0          0.0         0.2     1.0
F. Fellowships and Study Tours                    -          0.5      0.1          0.2         0.2     1.0
Totd Invasbmnt Costs                             24.5          0.7      0.2          0.6         1.1    27.2
! Recurrent Costs
A. incrementl Staff Saaries                       -          0.1      0.0          0.0         0.0     0.1
B. Equtpmn O & M                                3.5           -       0.0          0.0        0.1      3.7
C. VehicieO&M                                   0.1          0.0        -            -        0.0      0.2
D. Oter Operating Costs                         1.1            -                     -        0.0      1.1
Totatl Recurrent Costs                            4.8          0.1      0.0          0.1        0.2      5.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                              29.3          0.8      0.3          0.7        1.3    32.3
Tom                                             2.8          0.0      0.0          0.0        0.1      2.9
Foreign Ehangs                                 20.2          0.7      0.2          0.5        0.9    22.5
C. Project Financing
3.4                 The proposed Bank loan of US$24.3 million will finance 75  percent of total project
costs, comprising 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (US$22.5 million) and 26 percent of the
local cost, excluding taxes (US$1.8 million). Co-financing is being sought to cover technical
assistance and training costs for Component 2 (actuarial development, policy planning, public affairs
and human resource management). Possible donors include EU PHARE, USAID, and UK Know-
How Fund. The NSSI will finance the balance of project costs (US$8.0 million), including duties and
taxes. Incremental operating costs comprising equipment maintenance services and annual
maintenance costs of computers and software (US$5.1 million equivalent) will be financed entirely by
NSSI. Averaged over the project life, the NSSI portion of recurrent expenditures represents less than
one percent of the projected 1996 operating budget for the NSSI. The NSSI has requested and the
Bank has agreed to retroactive financing of up to US$2.4 million equivalent to facilitate advance
purchase of goods, works and services needed for project start-up activities, available as of
July 1, 1996.



- 35 -
D. Administration of Project Funds
3.5          The Bank loan of US$24.3 million will be made to the Government of Bulgaria. The
Government will enter into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with the NSSI; and, signing of the
subskUary Loan Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness. On-lending terms to NSSI will be
the same as the terms of the Bank's loan to the Government. NSSI will provide counterpart funding
of about US$8.0 million from its own revenues. NSSI will be responsible for servicing the Loan to
the Government.
E. Project Management and Implementation
3.6          The project will be implemented over a four year period. Overall responsibility for
implementation of the project rests with the newly established and independent NSSI. Responsibility
for day-to-day coordination, management and monitoring rests with the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) which has been established within the NSSI. It is assumed that the PCU will also be
responsible for the coordination of other donor-funded activities in the social security sector. To
carry out its functions, the PCU has been staffed by a Project Coordinator, supported by a core team
financed under the project. The core team comprises: (i) a project manager; (ii) a procurement
officer; (iii) an accountant; and (iv) an administrative assistant. All PCU staff will be financed by the
Governrment. Since the PCU staff are not familiar with Bank procedures, the necessary technical
assistance will be provided to ensure compliance with Bank guidelines, particularly in the area of
procurement.
3.7           A Project Advisory Group, headed by the Governor of the NSSI, has been
established. This group will be responsible for providing policy advice and guidance concerning the
project during the implementation period. The Advisory Group consists of the NSSI Governor, the
Project Coordinator, the Project Manager, and the team leaders of the technical working groups
which prepared the project proposals. During negotiations, assurances were provided that the
Project Advisory Group will be maintained during the project implementation period. The Advisory
Group will be assisted by special task forces which it will convene as necessary.
3.8          The project will require about 25 weeks of Bank supervision per year during the four-
year implementation period, front-loaded to assist sound project launch with a new borrower. This
relatively intensive supervision is needed because of the nature of the project, whose focus on radical
changes in NSSI operating procedures necessarily implies that the detailed design work which will be
undertaken during implementation be supervised closely by appropriate Bank technical experts. A
detailed project supervision plan is shown in the PIP, para. 34.



- 36 -
F. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.9          Items to be procured will be grouped into major packages to encourage competitive
bidding and permit bulk procurement. Major procurement categories include: about US$13.3 million,
predominantly for computer hardware, off-the-shelf software, and vehicles to be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures; about US$8.1 million for technical assistance and
training, to be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement of consultants;
US$1.0 million through international shopping (IS); and US$0.6 million through national shopping
(NS). National shopping will be in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is also
expected that computer applications software estimated to cost US$3.5 million will be procured
through limited international bidding because of the limited number of suppliers available.
Paragraphs 23-27 of the PIP provide details regarding procurement arrangements envisaged under the
project, and the standard procurement information is presented in Table 5 of the PIP (Annex 5).
Appropriate Bank standard bidding documents will be used for the project, and procurement will be
carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
G. Disbursements
3.10         The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four and a half
years, which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven years). This
project will be the second operation in the human resource sector in Bulgaria, with the first (Health)
scheduled to become effective by mid-1996. Therefore, the country disbursement profile for the
sector is speculative. However, the shorter implementation period for the present project reflects the
nature of the project as a narrowly-focused institutional development project in support of the first
phase of the Government's social security reform program, as well as the simplicity of the project's
design. Implementation and related disbursements will be facilitated by having defined equipment
lists and agreed terms of reference prior to project implementation (see Chapter m, PIP). The
closing date will be June 30, 2001. A summary of the disbursement plan is shown as Table 8 of the
PIP.
3.11         All disbursements against contracts for goods and works exceeding US$300,000
equivalent, and services and training exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and
US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants will be fully documented. For expenditures below
that level, disbursements will be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision
missions, and will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement and
monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and Borrower counterpart financing
would be managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
3.12         To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US
dollars. The authorized allocation will be US$2.0 million. However, during the initial stage of the
project, an amount limited to US$0.5 million will be deposited. When the aggregate amount of



- 37 -
disbursement reaches US$5.0 million, the amount deposited in the Special Account will be increased
to the full authorized allocation of US$2.0 million.
H. Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation
3.13         The PCU will be responsible for coordinating annual project audits and for fulfilling
reporting requirements. With respect to project accounts, including the Special Account, they will be
audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982), and will be provided by the Borrower within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. Further information concerning auditing is provided in para. 31 of the
PIP.
3.14          In addition, the PCU will be responsible for preparing semi-annual progress reports,
which will include: a summary of progress under each component, proposals for rescheduling of
activities where necessary, actual disbursements and projections for the subsequent six-month
reporting period, as well as a thorough analysis of progress in implementation of the social security
reform program, as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (see Annex 2). The PIP includes a
framework for systematic monitoring and evaluation of progress in project implementation. It
identifies a set of performance indicators to be used in project supervision. Progress reporting under
the project is provided in more detail in paras. 36-39 of the PIP.
3.15         During negotiations, assurances were provided that: (i) NSSI wiU prepare semi-
annual descriptive andfinancial reports on each project component, objective and activity
(beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness); and (ii) a mid-tern review of the project wiU be
carried out in February 1999.
1. Status of Preparation
3.16         During the initial stages of preparation, the Borrower established five technical
working groups to develop project proposals for each component. That structure has remained in
place and has been a principal contributor to the preparation process. The functioning of these
working groups has promoted staff involvement in development of the project. These working groups
will be maintained during project implementation, and the heads at these groups will participate on a
regular basis in the Project Advisory Group (see Annex 5, para. 9, page 7). The basic policy agenda
has been discussed thoroughly, with NSSI, MOLSA and MOF management, with a view to achieving
the consensus necessary for its implementation. The Project Implementation Plan has been prepared,
and will serve as the basis for the more detailed Project Operational Manual (POM) which is now
being developed for use by the project management in the implementation of the project. The PCU
has been established, and is now fully staffed to ensure a smooth start-up to project implementation.
3.17         Additionally, important start-up activities have been initiated with regard to each of
the project's two components, using other sources of financing. A key activity which is already
underway with assistance from the Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan (#3384-BU) concerns the



- 38 -
design of reporting procedures and related software applications and staff training for reporting of
wage and contributions information by employers. Completion of this activity is expected to occur
prior to effectiveness of the present project, suggesting relatively smooth and timely start-up of the
project- supported central register. Secondly, Japanese grant funds have been used to develop a
Bulgaria-specific actuarial model and to begin training NSSI staff in its structure and applications for
planning purposes. These activities can be expected to facilitate implementation of project sub-
components related to actuarial projection and policy evaluation and planning. Finally, selected NSSI
staff have already participated in study tours and informal training in the public affairs area through
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) financing and are expected to form the
core of staff of the Public Affairs Office to be established with support from the proposed project.



- 39 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
4.1           The project's major benefits will be to (i) improve fund balances; (ii) reduce client
burden and improve services; and (iii) improve the policy making capacity of the NSSI for
sustainable, fiscally responsible, pension reform.
4.2           Improving Fund Balances. The Social Insurance Administration Project will help to
bring about long-run fiscal balance by improving contributions collections and by establishing a more
equitable, efficient and affordable basis for pensions and other social insurance benefits. Under the
project, fund balances can be expected to improve, even under pessimistic assumptions concerning the
effectiveness of the project in increasing revenues (Chapter 2, paras. 2.33-2.37). Under pessimistic
assumptions, fund revenues are assumed to increase 1 percent over base case projections phased in
over a three year period starting in 2000. The benefit-cost ratio, as measured by the present value of
fiscal savings relative to the cost of the loan, is 15.2 to 1 in the year 2000 and rising thereafter. By
2004, the internal rate of return is 38.5 percent compared to a real interest rate of 24.25 percent.
These savings assume a small increase in the tax compliance rate from 63.4 percent to 64.0 percent.
A more optimistic scenario of the cost effectiveness and fiscal impact of the project was developed
based on a 10 percent increase in revenues (a level consistent with that achieved in other countries,
following the implementation of activities similar to those included in the proposed project). This
scenario assumes that expenditures are reduced by 1 percent for pension payments and 10 percent for
short-term benefits. In this case, the benefit-cost ratio for the loan is 92.8 to I in the year 2000 and
rising thereafter. Under these assumptions, the internal rate of return to the loan in the year 2004 is
70.0 percent. These savings imply an increase in the compliance rate to 69.6 percent. By the end of
the projection period in 2019, the effective tax rate could be reduced by 5.8 percentage, even when a
contingency reserve is created.
4.3           Reduced Client Burden and Improved Service. Once the system is implemented,
benefits to employers from reductions in administrative burdens will start to be evident. Long-term
benefits from administrative simplification will accrue as employers will no longer be required to
furnish work history documents to establish employee pension eligibility and will no longer need to
maintain employee records for purposes of benefit calculation. Gains to workers and pensioners
include improvements in the benefits application process, faster responses to inquiries, faster
processing of decisions, and faster and more accurate payment procedures. These all will result in an
expanded economic payback for the project.
4.4           Improved Policy Capacity. Improved policy making tools and public relations can
support economic growth and development as policymakers use these tools to strengthen the policy
framework toward fiscally sustainable programs. While it is not feasible to estimate the impact of
these institutional changes on the economy, it appears likely that project activities related to
strengthening NSSI's capacity for policy evaluation and planning and actuarial forecasting will
significantly strengthen the technical underpinnings of Government's policy reforms in social
insurance.



- 40 -
B. Project Risks
4.5           The project faces four types of risk which are related to: (i) Government history of
wavering commitment to some Bank supported projects; (ii) implementation capacity; (iii) further
policy reform; and (iv) macroeconomic stability.
4.6           Government Commitment. In the past, Government's record has been extremely
poor irn regard to the disbursement of funds provided through the Bank. For example, the TAL was
recently extended as it had substantial undisbursed funds remaining in the account. Other
Bank-financed projects have been left in limbo in advanced stages of preparation, as political changes
eroded ministerial commitment to past agreements. Further, even with sectoral ministerial
commitment, support from the Ministry of Finance is also required. Such support has not necessarily
been forthcoming in the case of some projects. With regard to the proposed Social Insurance
Administration project, however, the Bank has entered into ongoing discussions with the Ministry of
Finance to ensure that the benefits to be derived from the project are widely known. Further, the
Ministry of Finance and the NSSI have recently agreed to the coordination of collection compliance
and are planning future cooperation, as well. This represents a new positive development for both
institutions.
4.7           Other Governmental risks should be mitigated, as well, as a result of timing of the
project and the new NSSI structure. Since March 1996, the NSSI has become a separate institute,
with complete independence in terms of operational policy. Consequently, NSSI management is less
subject to political influence than a normal line Ministry. Further, a stable parliamentary majority is
currently in power, securing continuity in the Supervisory Board to whom NSSI management must
report. Lastly, there is an unusually high degree of commitment to the project on the part of the
NSSI and the MOLSA, which increases the probability that Bank funds will be disbursed in a timely
manner to meet project objectives. In other words, even though the relationship between the Bank and
Government has been problematic in the past, the prospects for timely implementation of this project
are favorable because the interests of the NSSI and the Bank are essentially the same.
4.8          Implementation Capacity. A major risk faced by the project is the fact that NSSI,
as a new organization, has relatively weak institutional capacity for project implementation. Further,
NSSI is inexperienced in implementing externally financed projects. To strengthen the institutional
capacity and minimize these risks, staff assignments have already been made to the PCU and training
in project design and management and key staff counterpart appointments will take place prior to
project effectiveness. Further, the project will provide extensive training related to each component.
The commitment of Government to this project also reduces the implementation risk. Project
preparation has taken place in close cooperation with NSSI counterparts, and the project activities
have been designed for smooth implementation. The PCU will coordinate implementation of the
proposed project, as well as other donor-funded investments to ensure coherence with the social
security reform strategy.
4.9           Policy Reform. A second issue, related principally to the timing of Bank support for
this project, concerns the risk that Government's incentive to proceed with second phase policy
reforms will be reduced following the receipt of substantial external funding for needed investments in
its social insurance program (via the proposed project). Several factors appear to combine to mitigate



- 41 -
this risk: First, Government has demonstrated substantial commitment to the second reform phase
with preparations already underway to formulate requisite legislation and build political support for
enactment of the reforms; second, to the extent that external support is a factor in influencing the
reform agenda, the expectation of Bank adjustment lending in support of second-phase reforms (as
described in the CAS) should outweigh the present (more restrictive) investment support in acting as
an incentive to stay on track with the structural reform of the social insurance program; and third,
project inputs to strengthen policy planning and actuarial forecasting should broaden the policy
dialogue beyond a few top officials and strengthen the technical underpinnings of specific reform
proposals thereby enhancing the impact of the reform. Of course, it is possible that the reforms taken
by government will not cap benefits or lower payroll taxes prudently. There can be no guarantees on
these issues. Nonetheless, the project will still have a beneficial impact by maintaining the system on
a relatively efficient operating basis without precipitating a complete collapse and social unrest. In
the worst case, further pension reforms would most likely be contemplated once the deleterious
economic effects of a bloated system are recognized in the future.
4.10          Macroeconomic Framework. At the current time, macroeconomic conditions in
Bulgaria leave much to be desired, with a crisis in the banking sector and the leva exchange rate
tumbling with respect to the dollar. In conditions of severe macroeconomic instability, efforts to
improve tax compliance have frequently proven to be unsuccessful. This risk is mitigated by the fact
that, given the timing for installing the information technology system, the new audit procedures will
not be able to be fully implemented until 1999 at the earliest. By that time, it is anticipated that
Government will have been able to bring the economy under control.






- 43 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1           The following actions are required to assure successful implementation of the project
and attainment of the broader project objectives.
Assurances Provided at Negotiations
5.2           During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)    it will implement the sectoral development strategy contained in the LSDP (para. 2.1);
(b)   the counterpart technical informatics team will be maintained and fully allocated to the
project throughout project implementation (para. 2.8);
(r)    any additional banks holding NSSI accounts will agree in writing to identify individual
deposits, together with the name and tax ID of the depositor, in statements provided
to NSSI (para. 2.9);
(d)    prior to December 31, 1998, legislation will be submitted to parliament to: (i) reduce
incentives for employers to claim unwarranted sick leave by making them responsible
for benefits for the first 4 days per sickness episode, up to a maximum of 15 days per
employee per year; (ii) require calculation of the average wage base for sick and
maternity leave benefits over a 12-month period; and (iii) amend the Labor Code so
that the payment of sick and maternity leave from the SSF is contingent upon payment
of full payroll tax contributions on behalf of the employee (para. 2.9);
(e)    a review of the penalty structure for non-compliance or arrears in terms of payroll tax
obligations will be completed no later than December 31, 1999, and that modification
of the penalty structure in accordance with the findings of the review will be
undertaken no later than March 30, 2000 (para. 2.9 (iii));
(f)    annual workplans for the Actuarial Analysis, Policy Evaluation and Development and
Public Affairs units of NSSI will be submitted to the Bank for review and technical
comment prior to the start of each calendar year within the project implementation
period (para. 2.11);
(g)    NSSI training and staff development plans for the upcoming 12-month period will be
submitted to the Bank for review and comment no later than the end of each calendar
year throughout the project implementation period (para. 2.15);
(h)   the Project Coordination Unit will be maintained throughout the project with staffing,
functions and authorities acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.16);
(i)   the Project Advisory Group will be maintained during the project implementation
period (para. 3.7);



- 44 -
(j)    NSSI will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on each project
component, objective and activity (beginning from the date of loan effectiveness)
(para. 3.15); and,
(k)    a mid-term review of the project will be carried out in February 1999 (para. 3.15).
Conditions of Effectiveness
5.3           Prior to loan effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)   issue regulations requiring employers and the self-employed to provide NSSI with
relevant biographical information and historical and monthly wage and contributions
data per employed person (using the EGN and Tax ID number as identifiers) in a
form suitable for central register development (para. 2.5);
(b)    establish a full-time counterpart NSSI team of at least four professional technical
informatics staff with experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.8);
(c)    appoint at least three professional staff and one support staff to the Offices of
Actuarial Analysis, Policy Planning, Human Resources Management, and Public
Affairs (para. 2.11); and,
(d)    sign a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and NSSI (para. 3.5).
Recommendation
5.4           Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable basis for a loan of
US$24.3 million to the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria.



- 45 -                           Annex I
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE (NSSI)
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
A. Introduction
1.           The Project will be implemented by the newly created and independent National
Social Security Institute (NSSI) which until recently was the Social Insurance Directorate of the
Ministry of Labor (MOLSA). The Social Security Law of November 15, 1995 established an
independent Social Security Fund (SSF) which is now being administered by the NSSI, whose
responsibilities encompass policy and administrative operations of the Fund and social insurance
programs throughout Bulgaria. In the future, administration of other programs like unemployment or
health insurance may come under NSSI responsibility. While the Institute is responsible for only one
fund at the present time, it is planned that future legislative changes will add two or three additional
funds to the management responsibilities of the NSSI. The Institute currently administers benefit
programs for the social insurance programs. The transfer of staff and resources from the MOLSA to
the NSSI is expected to take place once NSSI is formally operational, i.e., when the members of the
Supervisory Board for the Institute have been nominated and approved by Parliament. This approval
is expected to be secured shortly. The Governor is in place, with his selection having been approved
by Parliament in late February 1996.
B. NSSI Structur
2.           The NSSI is undergoing organizational restructuring to improve its operations and
increase public confidence. The restructuring has been developed on the basis of four principles: (i)
minimal layers and units promote efficiency and teamwork; (ii) clear lines of authority and
responsibility enhance management and increase public confidence; (iii) flexible structure allows for
assumption of new responsibilities, e.g., unemployment benefits, without the need for reorganization;
and (iv) demonstration of a clear commitment to public service and protecting the integrity of the
program and the fund(s). The Supervisory Board is now in place and the organizational structure of
the new Institute has been implemented. Table 1.1-1.3 show the organogram for the NSSI.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
Table 1.1
FUNCTIONAL AND ORGANISATIONAL
STRUCTURE OF NSSI
| SUPERVISORY BOARD I
_I
INTERNATIONALRELAIONS          BOARD OF MANAGEMENT               INFORMAION TECHNOLOGY
|      _  l   |             ~~~~~GOVERNOR    L=     
DIRECTORATE               B       O                            FDNANCIAL CONTROL
DIRECTORATE
GEIJERAL          GENERAL           GENERAL                GENERAL            GENERAL           GENERAL        
DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE        DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATEO
PENSIONS        CONDTRIBUTIOS    SOCIAL INSURANCE       ADMINISTRATION     BUDGETR NG AND       PROPERTY
AND SHORT TERM        POLICY~            AND PERSONNEL        FINANCIALANSP
_  l    BENEFnS    l _        | z |MANAGEMENT              ACTIVIES         MAAGEMENT
REGIONAL ADVISORY
COUNCIL
r----F- -  -  -------------- L-------------------------    g
IREGItN{   IREGIONAL|  .REGI        .eeee.eee.eeseREGws@eeNAe.ggge.eegee..eeee
OFFICE t I OFFICEI 2    Ol                                                                                OFFICE 28



Page 3 of 7
Table 1.2
FUNCTIONAL SUBSTRUCTURE OF NSSI
DEPUrY GOVERNOR
GENERAL           aENERAL           GENERAL                GNERAL             GENERAL            GENERAL
DIFtECTORATE      DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE            DIRECrORATE        DIRECTORATE        DIRECTORATE
PENSIONS        CONTRIBUTIONS    SOCIAL INSURANCE       ADMINISTRATION     BUDGEtTING AND        PROPERTY
AND SNOWTERM          POLICY             ANDPERSONNEL          RNANCIAL           AND SPA
BENEflTS                               MANAGEMENT          ACTIVITIES        MANAGEMENT
z                                                          0        0
0                  *J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2L
Z   ~~~~~~~~~~~~                   0~cz                   in    0a  
~~~   2                                            0    F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Z oA     
0    ul                     IL)   4 )                                                      2      0
0  u                 0                                  Am    t2                                      ILo
8                                     m I    2w  0        2
2                                                                                          4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
0.~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
Table 1.3
FUNCTIONAL UNITS, DIRECTLY REPORTING
TO THE GOVERNOR AND DEPUTY GOVERNOR
INT  NIONLAGREEMENTS    |                                                                  OPERATIONANDINFORMATION
_______________   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~z0>-TECHNOLOGY
INTERNATIONALRELATIONS                                                           00              AUTOMATION
PROTOCOL                 r                                                            TELECOMMUNICATIONS
|    EUYGOVERNOR
LEGAL SERVICES |ERNAL
FINANCIAL CONTROL
DIRECTORATE



- 49 -                             Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
3.            The various aspects of the senior management level are described in the sections
below:
(a)    Governor's Office. Overall responsibility for the Institute's policies and programs
rests with the Governor, appointed by Parliament. He is chairman of the Supervisory
Board.
(b)    Supervisory Board. The Board is tripartite in structure, with 14 members,
representing government, employers, and labor. All members of the Board have
been selected. Adoption of the new organizational structure for NSSI was one of the
first items on the Board agenda.
4.            Headquarters consists of six directorates and four offices reporting directly to the
Governor. The six directorates consist of (i) Pensions; (ii) Contributions and Short-term Benefits;
(iii) Social Insurance Policy; (iv) Administration and Personnel Management; (v) Budgeting and
Financial Activities; and (vi) Property and Spa management. Operations policy is the responsibility of
the Pensions Directorate and the Contributions and Short Term Benefits Directorate. As more
programs are assumed by the Institute, Directorates responsible for unemployment and heath care
could be added. The Contributions Division in the Contributions and Short-term Benefits is
responsible for collection, compliance, audit and appeals, as well as the development of plans,
policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the contributions requirements for all employers
and self-employed entrepreneurs. The Social Insurance Policy Directorate represents a new function in
the Institute, consisting of Statistics and Actuarial Analysis; Policy Analysis and Planning and Public
Relations. The Statistics and Actuarial Division will include statisticians and actuaries and will be
responsible for developing projections and anticipating needed adjustments to the fund and the
program, as well as producing statistical reports and analysis. The Policy Analysis and Planning
Division will be responsible for preparing and developing Policy options for consideration by the
Governor and the Supervisory Board. The Public Relations Division will be responsible for the
development and dissemination of information about programs administered by the Institute and
proposed changes to these programs through the use of media. The Administration and Personnel
Management Directorate would carry out a new function for the organization - personnel
management, compensation, labor agreements, and training and career development. The Budgeting
and Financial Activities Directorate would carry out the budget development and execution functions,
as well as accounting for the administrative budget of the institute. It also has the responsibility to
ensure that adequate space, equipment, and supplies are available for all Institute employees and
customers. The Property and Spa Management Directorate has the responsibility to inventory and
manage, preferably through contractors, the properties to be transferred to the Social insurance Fund.
Spa management is also included in its mandate. Consideration is being given, however, to
transferring these functions out of the NSSI. Four offices report directly to the Governor and make
up the Secretariate. The Information Technology Directorate, includes the current information
technology staff. It is responsible for computer programming and analysis, as well as systems
requirements and specifications. The Internal Financial Control Directorate has fiscal control over
and accountability for the income and expenditures of the Social Insurance Fund. In addition, offices
are in place to handle international relations and legal services.



- 50 -                             Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
5.            Regional Advisory Committee. The day-to-day operations of the NSSI will continue
through the existing network of 28 regional offices. As at least an interim measure, a Regional
Advisory Committee will be selected composed of nine current regional managers, one from each of
the territories, reporting directly to the Governor. The Committee will be responsible for providing
advice on a regular basis to the Governor concerning regional policy for the Institute. Initially, the
Committee will be responsible for reviewing the current office structure and providing feasible
options for improving its effectiveness. One particular set of recommendations will concern the
selection of a few (nine or less) well-placed and staffed "supervisory" regional offices which would
function as "hubs" for the other regional offices. These offices could also offer inter alia specialized
support staff in the functional areas of information systems, public information, training, resources
and compliance. These supervisory offices would carry out the oversight function more effectively
than would a separate operational unit at Headquarters. This structure would minimize bureaucratic
layers and would set up a direct relationship to the Governor's office. It would also enable
Headquarters functional departments to support the regional office structure more directly.
C. Budget
6.            Revenues and expenditures for the Social Insurance Directorate for 1994 - 1996 are
shown in Table 2 below.



- 51 -                                                      Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
Table 2: SOCIAL INSURANCE FUND REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(thousands of Bulgarian leva)
1994         1995         1996 Budge
Revenues
Contributions on wages a/                           43,368       65,039       91,307
Self-erployed contributions                          3,308        4,628         5,570
Rcvenue from audits                                  2,486        3,208         4,009
Additionalpaymentsforjobinjuries                        78          124          231
Payments for working pensionen bt                     285           296          133
Surplus transferred from earlier years                   0          231           74
TOTAL                                               49,523       73,526       101,379
Expenditures
Administrative Expenses c/                            281           442          705
Pensions dt                                         48,152       66,080       92,023
Short-term benefits el                               5,214        7,239        9,203
Family Benefits f7                                   5,232        6,766         3,528
Additional Expenses g/                               1,326           51           90
Dietary Supplements ht                                  9S          163            0
60,304       30,790      110,541
SWcBudgetContributioni/                             11,012        8,217        9,170
Shortfall (without Budgetary Funds)                 10,781        7,265         9,170
Shortfall less family benefits and dietary
supplements                                          5,450          336          642
Notes:
51 Basic employer contributionequals 35 percent of payroll for 1994 and 1995 and
and 37 percent of payroll for 1996.
bt Legislation reduced reduction of benefits for pensionen who work as of 1996.
c/ Includes salaries, benefits, training, repairs and other expenses for cental and regional
SII offices.
dt Includes old-age, disability, and survivors' pensionsL
et Includes payments for sick-leave, maternity leave, leave to cars for family nembebs,
death benefits, orthopedic devices, and other allowances.
ft Includes birth gants and family allowances; thes benefits an obligaion of the budget
as of January 1997.
gt Other non-wage administrative expeses such as printing
ht Includes dietary supplemnents and health facilities; these are phased out in 1996.
i/ State contribution covers deficit and other budgetary obligation  Contrbution
will be reduced by BUL 4,538.7 thousand for 1996 if 2% employee contribution is
enacted






-53-                             Annex 2
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
EVALUATION OF IMPACT OF GOVERNMENT REFORMS
1.           In recent years, Government has enacted a series of legislative changes intended to
stabilize the pension system financially, improve its transparency and redefine benefits. Further
reform of the pension system is anticipated now that the NSSI has been separated from the Ministry
of Labor. These changes would separate out professional funds from the general system as a means
to continue self-funded early retirement benefits. In addition, the normal pensionable age is likely to
be increased.
2.           Analysis conducted on the economic impact of measures taken since the separation of
the NSSI indicates that they will have brought the pension fund in balance in 1996. These changes
include the transfer of the payroll tax from the overfunded unemployment fund to the underfunded
pension fund. Additionally, an employee payroll tax has been added and the structure of pensions
reconfigured to make up for past losses in real pensions relative to wages. On the expenditure side,
the mandatory retirement age has been raised by three years, permitting employees to defer their
pensions and continue working, thereby reducing the overall expenditures on pensions. As a result
of these measures, the fund will no longer require subsidies from the budget. When the normal
retirement age-the age at which employees are first eligible for a full pension if they so choose--is
increased as well, the budgetary surplus will be increased sufficiently to reduce the payroll tax by
around 9 percent, from 39 percent to 30 percent of payroll.
Analysis Prior to Fund Separation
3.           Analysis conducted in Bulgaria prior to the preparation of this project, evaluating all
social benefit programs, indicated that Bulgaria's failure to reshape the cash benefit system created
serious fiscal and efficiency problems (Fox, forthcoming). Expenditures for social insurance and
social assistance increased as a share of GDP, from 11.4 percent in 1990 to 13.3 percent in 1992.
Although social insurance expenditures as a share of GDP rose during the transition, this increase was
caused by the over 30 percent fall in GDP. To meet recurring financing crises, earmarked payroll
taxes used to finance benefits were raised several times, with continuing budgetary deficits. Even
with sharp tax increases, tax receipts as a share of GDP only held constant. The rapid shrinkage of
the tax base was attributed to two factors: (a) decline in total employment and labor income; and (b)
poor tax administration, with taxes in the growing private sector simply not collected. The growing
gap between revenues and expenditures necessitated an increase in general revenue financing from 3.4
percent in 1990 to 15.8 percent in 1992.
4.            In response to rising deficits, Government enacted certain changes through the
Pension Reform Act of 1992, restricting eligibility and amending the old-age benefit formula (Fox,
1995). Beginning January 1993, early retirement ages were raised by two years and the minimum
length of service for a fMll pension was increased. Early retirement was no longer offered to laid off
workers. Total benefits were capped at three times the social pension.



-54 -                             Annex 2
Page 2 of l1
5.            Economic and sector work carried out during project preparation indicated that many
of the issues identified earlier remained, notwithstanding the measures taken by Government in 1993.
In the April 1995 Aide Memoire, the mission presented preliminary findings based on an
economic/demographic simulation model developed for that purpose. The key findings indicated that:
(a)   improvements in contribution collection rates stemming from improved compliance
could significantly strengthen the financial status of the social insurance fund;
(b)    current financial balance could not be achieved solely through improved compliance
but had to be complemented by policies to reduce long-run expenditure; and,
(c)    while improvements in benefit generosity would be fiscally feasible if tax compliance
were improved and normal retirement ages extended, such changes should be
approached with caution as small changes in the projected ratio of wages to benefits
could create a long-run shortfall.
Analysis Related to Measures Taken Since Fund Separation
6.            A more rapid program of policy change was instituted after the NSSI separated from
the Ministry of Labor -- a measure intended, in part, to improve fiscal accountability and
transparency. As part of that process, starting in 1997, family benefits will become a budgetary
obligation outside the pension fund since they do not represent an insurable condition related to
employment. Further, the mandatory retirement age has been increased as a first step towards
reducing expenditures and increasing revenue. Finally, the earnings base used to calculate pensions
will be increased from the best three out of the last 10 years to the entire worklife, phased-in in one
year increments.
7.            The payroll tax used to finance pensions and short-term benefits was raised by 2
percent in 1996, offsetting a reduction in the payroll tax rate for unemployment insurance. As a
result, the social insurance contribution rate was increased from 35 percent to 37 percent of payroll
for most enterprises, while the unemployment insurance tax was lowered from 7 percent to 5 percent.
At the same time, benefits were realigned to wages, reducing the compression that had taken place
because of ad hoc flat-rate indexing. While data are not available to conduct a analysis of the
distributional impact of decompression, NSSI experts suggest that many very elderly pensioners will
be helped by the realignment, as their pension-to-wage ratios tended to decline the most over time.
Naturally, decompression will also help pensioners of all ages, if their benefits are not constrained by
the current pension cap.
8.            Simulations of the impact of these measures without project intervention were
conducted using a Government-supported actuarial model of the social insurance system using Japan
Grant funds.1' These simulations indicate that the pension fund would have run a small deficit
1' Japan Grant funds were also used to analyze the institution of a pension plan for teachers within the National
Social Security Institute (NSSI) to pay early retirement pensions or supplementary benefits to teachers who
postponed retirement. While this model has not been used to extend the Economic Sector Work (ESW), it
provides new tools with which to conduct future ESW and with which to evaluate proposed policy options.



- 55 -                              Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
throughout virtually all of the projection period given the initial measures described above (Tables 1
and 2). The increased revenues more than offset benefit gains resulting from the recalibration of
pensions. As a consequence, the funding gap narrowed. If these had been the only measures taken,
the NSSI deficit funded by budgetary subsidies would have declined to less than 1 percent of NSSI
revenues for most of the first decade of the 21st century. It would have risen to over 1 percent of
NSSI revenues for most of the second decade of the 21st century, as the numbers of pensioners
increased through further population aging. The NSSI deficit would have remained less than 0.30
percent of GDP for most of the projection period.
9.            Additional measures were taken by Government, however, including the institution of
a two percent payroll tax on employees and the lifting of the mandatory retirement age by three years.
This latter step prevents employers from forcing employees into retirement if they prefer to continue
working. Simulations of these additional measures indicate that the employee payroll tax removes the
need for any budgetary financing, assuming that compliance stays the same. In fact, this increase
over-compensates for anticipated government subsidies, leaving room for tax reductions in the future
(Tables 3 and 4). Increasing the mandatory retirement age by 3 years compounds this favorable
impact (Tables 5 and 6). In the short run, these changes allow the NSSI to start to build up a fund
reserve that insures the NSSI against fiscal distress should unanticipated contingencies lead to an
unanticipated shortfall in revenues.2 While both steps bring the fund into financial balance, the
heavy tax burden may continue to discourage collection compliance and employment.
Analysis Related to Future Structural Reforms
10.           Government has indicated its willingness to address the underlying structural
problems of the social insurance system. Legislation is being developed to establish separate plans to
fund pensions for employees now entitled to special early retirement privileges. This would reduce
the direct payroll taxes for enterprises employing these workers. Government anticipates a proposal
for the substantive structural overhaul of the pension system to be introduced in late 1996. While
plans for pension reform are not final, they are likely to include measures to increase significantly the
normal retirement age and to revise the benefit formula, potentially limiting benefits relative to the
average wage.
11.           The same actuarial model was used to simulate the impact of raising the normal
retirement age by 3 years over a 6 year period, one of the major measures under consideration by the
NSSI. If such a measure were effected, the payroll tax rate could be reduced substantially while
continuing to maintain a fund ratio equal to 25 percent of expenditures as a cushion against fiscal
uncertainty. On average over the projection period, the payroll tax rate could be conservatively
reduced by 9 percent, bringing the basic payroll tax rate down from the current 39 percent to 30
percent of payroll (Tables 7 and 8).
2' Another measure that will reduce expenditures includes the gradual lengthening of the period used to calculate
the base pension. Future simulations will be conducted to measure the impact of this measure. Expenditure
reductions will depend on the steepness of the expected earnings profiles of Bulgarian workers and on the way in
which the earnings base is indexed for inflation. Since this measure is anticipated, current simulations actually
present a financial picture that errs on the side of conservatism.



Arnax 2
Page 4 of 11
Table 1: BULGNRIA: Projected Operaticns of the Social Insurano Fund (billicns of leva)
Tax rates of 52%, 47%, and 37%.
INOOME BY SOURCE                cUrx  BY TYPE OF BENEFIT
Qlply                                                                               Cange  FRd  Frd
FUll RedLwed      Basic  other   Govt Inter-  ITUL                 Short    Pop  TOwaL  in Fuind    at Ratio
Year Taxbase Taxbase        Tax Incme    Sub    est INOCME  Pensicns   Term Grcwth  oUIMD  Balanze   BDY % BDY
1996   355.0   225.1       88.4   11.3    0.9    0.0  100.6          91.3    9.3    0.0  100.6        0.0   0.0  0.00
1997   449.6   285.1      112.0   14.3    1.8    0.0  128.1         116.3   11.8    0.0  128.1        0.0   0.0  0.00
1998   570.1   361.5      142.0   18.1    2.0    0.0  162.1         147.1   15.0    0.0  162.1        0.0   0.0  0.00
1999   725.4   459.9      180.6   23.1    1.1    0.0  204.8         185.6   19.2    0.0  204.8        0.0   0.0  0.00
2000   925.7   587.0      230.5   29.4    0.0    0.0  259.9         235.2   24.7    0.0  259.9        0.0   0.0  0.01
2001 1,136.9   720.9      283.0   36.2    0.1    0.0  319.3         288.7   30.7    0.0  319.3       -0.0   0.0  0.00
2002  1,400.1   887.7     348.5   44.5    0.3    0.0  393.4         355.3   38.1    0.0  393.4        0.0   0.0  0.00
2003  1,727.4  1,095.3    430.0   55.0    1.9    0.0  486.9         439.4   47.5    0.0  486.9        0.0   0.0  0.00
2004 2,140.8  1,357.4     532.9   68.2    4.8    0.0  605.8         546.4   59.4    0.0  605.8        0.0   0.0  0.00
2005 2,658.7  1,685.8     661.8   84.7    5.4    0.0  751.9         677.7   74.2    0.0  751.9        0.0   0.0  0.00
2006 3,254.1 2,063.3      810.0  103.6    9.5    0.0  923.1         831.7   91.4    0.0  923.1        0.0   0.0  0.00
2007 3,931.0 2,492.5      978.7  125.1   16.8    0.0 1,120.6   1,009.7  110.9    0.0 1,120.6          0.0   0.0  0.00
2008 4,688.0 2,972.5   1,167.3  149.2   28.2    0.0 1,344.7   1,212.1  132.6    0.0 1,344.7           0.0   0.0  0.00
2009 5,518.7  3,499.2   1,374.1  175.6   41.0    0.0 1,590.7   1,434.4  156.3    0.0 1,590.7          0.0   0.0  0.00
2010 6,413.4  4,066.5   1,597.0  203.9   54.8    0.0 1,855.7   1,674.2  181.5    0.0 1,855.7          0.0   0.0  0.00
2011 7,357.1 4,664.8   1,832.1  233.7   64.3    0.0 2,130.1   1,922.6  207.5    0.0 2,130.1           0.0   0.0  0.00
2012 8,322.7  5,277.1   2,072.8  264.1   71.8    0.0 2,408.7   2,174.8  233.9    0.0 2,408.7          0.0   0.0  0.00
2013 9,289.2  5,889.9   2,313.6  294.5   83.0    0.0 2,691.1   2,431.8  259.3    0.0 2,691.1          0.0   0.0  0.00
2014 10,224.2  6,482.7   2,546.5  323.7   87.2    0.0 2,957.4   2,674.4  283.0    0.0 2,957.4         0.0   0.0  0.00
2015 11,093.1 7,033.6   2,762.9  350.9   86.9    0.0 3,200.8   2,896.4  304.4    0.0 3,200.8          0.0   0.0  0.00
2016 11,868.6 7,525.4   2,956.2  375.0   84.6    0.0 3,415.8   3,093.0  322.8    0.0 3,415.8          0.0   0.0  0.00
2017 12,693.3  8,048.3   3,161.5  400.7   84.4    0.0 3,646.6   3,304.2  342.4    0.0 3,646.6         0.0   0.0  0.00
2018 13,572.3  8,605.6   3,380.2  428.2   78.1    0.0 3,886.5   3,522.9  363.6    0.0 3,886.5         0.0   0.0  0.00
2019 14,510.0  9,200.2   3,613.5  457.5   71.0    0.0 4,142.0   3,755.5  386.6    0.0 4,142.0         0.0   0.0  0.00
JCW & JPW, ilaD BANK
03-22-1996



Ann K 2
pop 5 of U1
TIbls 2: EILGNA: Projected Inooma Rate, COt Rats, and Actmrial BDal   (% of tax kee)
Tax rates of 52%, 47%, and 37%
INII RATE BY SCtRZ               W1  R*TE BY TYPE OF BENlErr      TAX RAM  INCSYE
lasic  Other   Govt Inter-  lUEAL                 Short    Pop  TOUTL   Balanoe    Banaoe          Fund
Year          Tax  Incme    Sub    est INoCHE  Pensions   Term Growth  CU(Jl             Only      & FUnd     Ratio
1996        39.29    5.01   0.39    0.00  44.68       40.54    4.14   0.00   44.68       0.39        1.88      3.00
1997        39.29    5.01   0.65    0.00   44.94      40.80    4.14   0.00   44.94       0.65        2.16      6.00
1998        39.28    5.01   0.56    0.00   44.85      40.69    4.16   0.00   44.85       0.56        2.06      9.00
1999        39.27    5.01   0.24    0.00  44.53       40.36    4.17    0.00  44.53       0.24        1.74      12.00
2000        39.27    5.02   0.00    0.00  44.28       40.07    4.21   0.00   44.28      -0.00        1.20      15.00
2001        39.26    5.02   0.02    0.00  44.30       40.05    4.25   0.00   44.30       0.02        1.48      18.00
2002        39.26    5.02   0.04    0.00  44.32       40.02    4.30   0.00   44.32       0.04        1.54      21.00
2003        39.26    5.02   0.17    0.00  44.45       40.12    4.34   0.00   44.45       0.17        1.70      24.00
2004        39.26    5.02   0.35    0.00  44.63       40.26    4.37   0.00   44.63       0.35        0.83      25.00
2005        39.26    5.02   0.32    0.00   44.60      40.20    4.40   0.00   44.60       0.32        0.17      25.00
2006        39.26    5.02   0.46    0.00  44.74       40.31    4.43    0.00   44.74      0.46        0.32      25.00
2007        39.27    5.02   0.67    0.00  44.96       40.51    4.45   0.00   44.96       0.67        0.55      25.00
2008        39.27    5.02   0.95    0.00   45.24      40.78    4.46   0.00   45.24       0.95        0.80      25.00
2009        39.27    5.02    1.17    0.00   45.46     40.99    4.47   0.00   45.46       1.17        1.01     25.00
2010        39.27    5.01   1.35    0.00   45.63      41.17    4.46   0.00   45.63       1.35        1.14     25.00
2011        39.28    5.01   1.38    0.00  45.66       41.21    4.45   0.00   45.66       1.38        1.15     25.00
2012        39.28    5.00   1.36    0.00   45.64      41.21    4.43    0.00   45.64      1.36        1.14     25.00
2013        39.28    5.00   1.41    0.00   45.69      41.29    4.40   0.00   45.69       1.41        1.16     25.00
2014        39.28    4.99   1.34    0.00   45.62      41.25    4.37   0.00   45.62       1.34        1.07     25.00
2015        39.28    4.99   1.24    0.00   45.51      41.18    4.33   0.00   45.51       1.24        0.96     25.00
2016        39.28    4.98   1.12    0.00   45.39      41.10    4.29   0.00   45.39       1.12        1.02     25.00
2017        39.28    4.98   1.05    0.00   45.31      41.05    4.25   0.00   45.31       1.05        0.92     25.00
2018        39.28    4.98   0.91    0.00   45.16      40.94    4.22   0.00   45.16       0.91        0.78     25.00
2019        39.28    4.97   0.77    0.00  45.02       40.82    4.20   0.00   45.02       0.77        0.62     25.00
PRESERr
VALUE
1996-2020   39.27    5.01   0.73    0.00   45.01      40.69   4.32   0.00   45.01        0.73        1.16
JCW & JPW, WRIOD BAIK
03-22-1996



Annex 2
Page 6 of 11
Table 3:  BUI.GARIA: Projected Operations of the Social Insurance Furd (billicos of leva)
Tax rater of 54%, 49%, and 39%
INoCHE BY SOURCE                    CtTGO BY TYPE OF BENEFTT
omply                                                                                        Chiange     Fund   Furd
Full  ReuRced       Basic   Other    Govt  Inter-   TOMAL                 Short      Pop   TOAL   in FUrd         at  Ratio
Year  Taxbase  Taxhase         Tax  Inome        Sub     est  INCCME   Pensions    Term  Grcwth   OUIGO   Balanoe          BOY  % BOY
1996    355.0    225.1        92.9    11.3       0.0     0.5   104.7        91.3      9.3     0.0   100.6        4.1       4.1   3.24
1997    449.6    285.1       117.7    14.3       0.0     1.6   133.6       116.3    11.8      0.0   128.1        5.4       9.6   5.91
1998    570.1    361.5       149.2    18.1       0.0     3.2   170.5       147.1    15.1      0.0   162.1        8.4      18.0   8.77
1999    725.4    459.9       189.8    23.1       0.0     5.9   218.8       185.6    19.2      0.0   204.8       13.9      31.9  12.27
2000    925.7    587.0       242.2    29.4       0.0    10.5   282.1       235.2    24.7      0.0   259.9        22.2     54.1  16.94
2001  1,136.9    720.9       297.4    36.2       0.0    14.3   347.9       288.7    30.7      0.0   319.4        28.5     82.6  21.00
2002  1,400.1    887.7       366.3    44.5       0.0    21.3   432.2       355.3    38.2      0.0   393.5        38.7    121.3  24.92           *n
2003  1,727.4  1,095.3       451.9    55.0       0.0    31.4   538.3       439.4    47.6       0.0   486.9       51.3    172.7  28.50
2004  2,140.8  1,357.4       560.0    68.2       0.0    44.4   672.6       546.4    59.5      0.0   605.9        66.7    239.4  31.84
2005  2,658.7  1,685.8       695.5    84.7       0.0    61.3   841.5       677.7    74.3      0.0   752.0        89.5    328.9  35.62
2006  3,254.1  2,063.3       851.3   103.6       0.0    78.2 1,033.1       831.7    91.5      0.0   923.2       109.9    438.8  39.15
2007  3,931.0  2,492.5    1,028.5   125.1        0.0    96.6 1,250.2    1,009.7   111.0       0.0 1,120.8      129.4    568.3  42.25
2008  4,688.0  2,972.5    1,226.7   149.2        0.0   115.2 1,491.1    1,212.1   132.8        0.0 1,344.9      146.2    714.4  44.91
2009  5,518.7  3,499.2    1,444.1   175.6        0.0   132.9 1,752.6    1,434.4   156.5       0.0 1,590.9       161.7    876.1  47.20
2010  6,413.4  4,066.5    1,678.3   203.9        0.0   148.9 2,031.1    1,674.2   181.7       0.0 1,856.0      175.1  1,051.2  49.34
2011  7,357.1  4,664.8    1,925.4   233.7        0.0   162.4 2,321.5    1,922.6   207.8       0.0 2,130.4      191.1  1,242.3  51.57
2012  8,322.7  5,277.1    2,178.3   264.1        0.0   173.0 2,615.5    2,174.8   234.2       0.0 2,409.0      206.5  1,448.7  53.83
2013  9,289.2  5,889.9    2,431.4   294.5        0.0   179.5 2,905.3    2,431.8   259.7       0.0 2,691.5      213.9  1,662.6  56.21
2014 10,224.2  6,482.7    2,676.1   323.7        0.0   180.9 3,180.8    2,674.4   283.4       0.0 2,957.8      223.0  1,885.6  58.90
2015 11,093.1  7,033.6    2,903.6   350.9        0.0   176.8 3,431.3    2,896.4   304.8       0.0 3,201.2      230.1  2,115.8  61.93
2016 11,868.6  7,525.4    3,106.7   375.0        0.0   166.5 3,648.2    3,093.0   323.2       0.0 3,416.2      231.9  2,347.7  64.37
2017 12,693.3  8,048.3    3,322.4   400.7        0.0   184.8 3,908.0    3,304.2   342.9       0.0 3,647.1      260.9  2,608.6  67.11
2018 13,572.3  8,605.6    3,552.4   428.2        0.0   205.7 4,186.2    3,522.9   364.1       0.0 3,887.0      299.2  2,907.8  70.19
2019 14,510.0  9,200.2    3,797.5   457.5        0.0   229.6 4,484.7    3,755.5   387.1       0.0 4,142.6      342.1  3,249.9  73.74
JcW & JPW, WORM BANK
04-03-1996



Anrex 2
Page 7 of 11
Table 4: EILWARIA: Projected Income Rate, Cost Rate, and Actuarial Balance (% of tax base)
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
INa(ME RATE BY SOURCE          CUTS RATE BY IYPE OF BENEFIT    TAX RATE INCREASE
Paqured
Basic  Other   Govt Inter-  IUrAL              Short    Pop  TIOML   Balance    Balanoe       Fuxd
Year         Tax Inrxmxe    Sub    est INCOME  Pensiors   Term  Gncwth  OUIGO        only     & Fund     Ratio
1996        41.29   5.01   0.00   0.24   46.53      40.54   4.15   0.00  44.69      -1.61      -0.12      3.00
1997        41.29   5.01   0.00   0.55   46.85      40.80   4.15   0.00  44.94      -1.35       0.17      6.00
1998        41.28   5.01   0.00   0.88   47.17      40.69   4.16   0.00  44.85      -1.44       0.07      9.00
1999        41.27   5.01   0.00   1.28  47.56       40.36   4.18   0.00  44.53      -1.75      -0.25     12.00
2000        41.27   5.02   0.00   1.78  48.07       40.07   4.22   0.00  44.28      -2.00      -0.80      15.00
2001        41.26   5.02   0.00   1.98  48.26       40.05   4.26   0.00  44.31      -1.97      -0.52      18.00
2002        41.26   5.02   0.00   2.40  48.68       40.02   4.30   0.00  44.32      -1.96      -0.46     21.00
2003        41.26   5.02   0.00   2.87   49.15      40.12   4.34   0.00  44.46      -1.82      -0.30      24.00            LA
2004        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.27  49.55       40.26   4.38   0.00  44.64      -1.64      -1.16     25.00            %0
2005        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.64  49.92       40.20   4.41   0.00  44.61      -1.67      -1.82     25.00
2006        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.79  50.07       40.31   4.44   0.00  44.75      -1.54      -1.67     25.00
2007        41.27   5.02   0.00   3.87  50.16       40.51   4.46   0.00  44.97      -1.32      -1.45     25.00
2008        41.27   5.02   0.00   3.87  50.16       40.78   4.47   0.00  45.24      -1.04      -1.19     25.00
2009        41.27   5.02   0.00   3.80   50.09      40.99   4.47   0.00  45.46      -0.82      -0.99     25.00
2010        41.27   5.01   0.00   3.66   49.95      41.17   4.47   0.00  45.64      -0.64      -0.85     25.00
2011        41.28   5.01   0.00   3.48   49.77      41.21   4.45   0.00  45.67      -0.61      -0.85     25.00
2012        41.28   5.00   0.00   3.28   49.56      41.21   4.44   0.00  45.65      -0.63      -0.85     25.00
2013        41.28   5.00   0.00   3.05  49.33       41.29   4.41   0.00  45.70      -0.58      -0.84     25.00
2014        41.28   4.99   0.00   2.79   49.07      41.25   4.37   0.00  45.63      -0.65      -0.92     25.00
2015        41.28   4.99   0.00   2.51  48.78       41.18   4.33   0.00  45.51      -0.76      -1.03     25.00
2016        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.21  48.48       41.10   4.30   0.00  45.40      -0.87      -0.98     25.00
2017        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.30  48.56       41.05   4.26   0.00  45.32      -0.95      -1.07     25.00
2018        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.39  48.65       40.94   4.23   0.00  45.17      -1.09      -1.21     25.00
2019        41.28   4.97   0.00   2.50  48.75       40.82   4.21   0.00  45.03      -1.22      -1.37     25.00
PRESU
VAUEE
1996-2020   41.27   5.01   0.00   2.58   48.86      40.69   4.33   0.00  45.01      -1.27      -0.84
JCW & JPW, WORLD BANK
04-03-1996



Amrw 2
Page 8 of 11
Table 5: BLX&MMA: Projected operatiors of the Social Insranwe Furd (billiams of leva)
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
F9ridatcry retirei3nt ages raised by 3 years.
IN0NEE BY SOURCE                 WUIT  BY TYPE OF BENEFTT
Caply                                                                                dCange    FUrd  FRnd
FUll Redu          Basic  Other   Govt Inter-   IUSL ort                      Pcp  TOTAL  in FEUd        at Ratio
Year Taxdase Taxkase         Tax Incrxe    Sub    est INa4    Penions   Term Growth  OUXI   Balanoe              EDY % BOY
1996    355.3   225.1       92.9   11.3    0.0    0.5  104.8          91.1    9.3    0.0  100.5         4.3      4.3  3.35
1997    450.0   285.1      117.7   14.3    0.0    1.6  133.6         116.2   11.8    0.0  128.0         5.6      9.9  6.11
1998    570.6   361.5      149.2   18.1    0.0    3.3  170.6         146.9   15.1    0.0  162.0         8.7    18.6  9.07
1999    726.0   459.9      189.8   23.1    0.0    6.1  219.0         185.4   19.2    0.0  204.6        14.4    32.9  12.68
2000    926.5   586.9      242.2   29.4    0.0   10.8  282.5         234.9   24.7    0.0  259.6         22.8    55.8  17.49
2001  1,137.9   720.9      297.4   36.2    0.0   14.7  348.3          288.2   30.7    0.0  318.9        29.4    85.2  21.69
2002  1,401.3   887.8      366.3   44.5    0.0   22.0  432.9          354.6   38.2    0.0  392.8        40.1   125.2  25.77
2003  1,729.0  1,095.3     452.0   55.0    0.0   32.4  539.4         438.4   47.6    0.0  486.0         53.4   178.7  29.56
2004  2,142.9  1,357.5     560.1   68.2    0.0   46.1  674.3          544.9   59.5    0.0  604.4        70.0   248.6  33.15
2005  2,661.3  1,686.0     695.6   84.7    0.0   63.8  844.0          675.7   74.3    0.0  750.0        94.0   342.7  37.20
2006  3,257.2  2,063.5     851.4  103.6    0.0   81.6 1,036.6        829.6   91.5    0.0  921.1    115.5   458.1  40.97
2007  3,934.9  2,492.8   1,028.6  125.2    0.0  100.9 1,254.7   1,007.3  111.1    0.0 1,118.3    136.4   594.6  44.31
2008  4,692.7  2,972.9   1,226.9  149.2    0.0  120.7 1,496.7   1,208.9  132.8    0.0 1,341.7    155.0   749.6  47.22
2009  5,524.3  3,499.7   1,444.3  175.6    0.0  139.6 1,759.5   1,431.1  156.5    0.0 1,587.6    171.9   921.5  49.73
2010  6,419.7  4,066.9   1,678.5  203.9    0.0  156.7 2,039.1   1,671.1  181.7    0.0 1,852.9    186.2  1,107.7  52.08
2011  7,364.3  4,665.3   1,925.6  233.7    0.0  171.3 2,330.6   1,919.1  207.8    0.0 2,126.9    203.7  1,311.4  54.52
2012  8,330.9  5,277.7   2,178.5  264.1    0.0  182.8 2,625.5   2,170.9  234.2    0.0 2,405.2    220.3  1,531.7  57.00
2013  9,298.2  5,890.5   2,431.6  294.5    0.0  189.9 2,916.0   2,427.5  259.7    0.0 2,687.2    228.8  1,760.6  59.61
2014 10,234.0  6,483.3   2,676.3  323.8    0.0  191.7 3,191.8   2,670.1  283.4    0.0 2,953.5    238.3  1,998.8  62.52
2015 11,103.5  7,034.1   2,903.8  350.9    0.0  187.5 3,442.2   2,892.4  304.9    0.0 3,197.3    244.9  2,243.7  65.75
2016 11,879.6  7,525.8   3,106.8  375.0    0.0  176.5 3,658.4   3,089.3  323.3    0.0 3,412.5    245.9  2,489.6  68.33
2017 12,705.1  8,048.8   3,322.6  400.7    0.0  196.0 3,919.3   3,300.5  342.9    0.0 3,643.4    275.9 2,765.5  71.22
2018 13,585.0  8,606.2   3,552.5  428.2    0.0  218.0 4,198.7   3,519.1  364.1    0.0 3,883.2    315.5  3,081.0  74.44
2019 14,523.5  9,200.7   3,797.7  457.5    0.0  243.2 4,498.5   3,751.6  387.1    0.0 4,138.7    359.8 3,440.8  78.14
J-CW & JPW, WIET.D BANR
04-05-1996



Ak3  2
Pa  9 o 11
Table 6: BILGAR: Projetd Irzae Rate, Oost Rate, and Aiarial Balarwi (% of tax be)
Ta rs  of 54%, 49%, 39%
lowI y rst.iremt    raages eaid by 3 year8
DiM RATE BY SOUaM             IZm MTE BY YPE OF BlET      IX MI RI DN
Basic  Other   Govt Inter-  IOTL           Short   Pop  TOM    Balaa    Baln          FwU
Year        Tax Incc      Skb    est INtCJ3E  Piam   T1a  Growth  OUlrO  aoly          & Fhd     Fatio
1996       41.29   5.01   0.00   0.24  46.54    40.49   4.15   0.00  44.63    -1.66    -0.17      3.00
1997       41.28   5.01   0.00   0.57  46.86    40.75   4.15   0.00  44.89    -1.40     0.12      6.00
1998       41.28   5.01   0.00   0.91  47.20    40.64   4.16   0.00  44.81    -1.48     0.02      9.00
1999       41.27   5.01   0.00   1.32  47.60    40.31   4.18   0.00  44.48    -1.80    -0.30     12.00
2000       41.27   5.02   0.00   1.84  48.12   40.01   4.22   0.00  44.23    -2.05     -0.85     15.00
2001       41.26   5.02   0.00   2.04  48.32    39.98   4.26   0.00  44.24    -2.04    -0.59    18.00
2002       41.26   5.02   0.00   2.48  48.76    39.94   4.30   0.00  44.25    -2.03    -0.54     21.00
2003       41.26   5.02   0.00   2.96  49.24   40.02   4.34   0.00  44.37    -1.91     -0.40    24.00
2004       41.26   5.02   0.00   3.39  49.67   40.14   4.38   0.00  44.52    -1.76     -1.28     25.00
2005       41.26   5.02   0.00   3.78  50.06    40.08   4.41   0.00  44.49    -1.79    -1.94     25.00
2006       41.26   5.02   0.00   3.95  50.24   40.20   4.44   0.00  44.64    -1.64     -1.78     25.00
2007       41.26   5.02   0.00   4.05  50.33   40.41   4.46   0.00  44.86    -1.42     -1.55     25.00
2006       41.27   5.02   0.00   4.06  50.35   40.66   4.47   0.00  45.13    -1.16     -1.30     25.00
2009       41.27   5.02   0.00   3.99  50.28   40.89   4.47   0.00  45.37    -0.92     -1.08     25.00
2010       41.27   5.01   0.00   3.85  50.14   41.09   4.47   0.00  45.56    -0.73     -0.93     25.00
2011       41.27   5.01   0.00   3.67  49.96    41.13   4.45   0.00  45.59    -0.69    -0.92     25.00
2012       41.28   5.01   0.00   3.46  49.75    41.13   4.44   0.00  45.57    -0.71    -0.93     25.00
2013       41.28   5.00   0.00   3.22  49.50   41.21   4.41   0.00  45.62    -0.66     -0.91    25.00
2014       41.28   4.99   0.00   2.96  49.23   41.18   4.37   0.00  45.56    -0.72     -0.99     25.00
2015       41.28   4.99   0.00   2.67  48.94   41.12   4.33   0.00  45.45    -0.82     -1.09     25.00
2016       41.28   4.98   0.00   2.35  48.61   41.05   4.30   0.00  45.34    -0.92     -1.03     25.00
2017       41.28   4.98   0.00   2.43  48.69   41.01   4.26   0.00  45.27    -0.99     -1.12     25.00
2018       41.28   4.96   0.00   2.53  48.79   40.89   4.23   0.00  45.12    -1.13     -1.26    25.00
2019       41.28   4.97   0.00   2.64  48.89   40.77   4.21   0.00  44.98    -1.27     -1.41    25.00
PR;ENr
1996-2020   41.27   5.01   0.00   2.70  48.98  40.61   4.33   0.00  44.94    -1.34     -0.91
J  & 3W,  MD BAN
04-05-1996



Auwu 2
E  10 of 11
Table 7: BUEAR: Projected operaticns of the social Irmzanoe Fund (billiorm of leva)
Thx rates of 54%, 49%, 39%
yhnitzy rtirmt ages raised by 3 years
Ncr1l retireet  age raised by 3 years over pase-in period of 6 years
INCON  BY SOURE                  aLno  BY TYPE OF BENFIT
CMply                                                                                 Ch--       Fund  Pund
Fall R    sch3    Basic  Other   Govt Inter-  TSL Short    Pcp  TOqL   in FId                            at Ratio
Year Taxbase Taxbase         Tax Incane    Sub    est INOOME  Pensicns   Term  Growth  0UITG   Balance    EBY % BDY
1996   355.3   225.1        92.9   11.3    0.0    0.5  104.8          91.1    9.3    0.0  100.5         4.3      4.3  3.48
1997   459.8   291.3       120.3   14.6    0.0    2.6  137.6         111.2   12.0    0.0  123.2        14.4    18.7  11.99
1998   582.9   369.2       152.5   18.6    0.0    6.8  177.9         140.6   15.3    0.0  155.9        22.0    40.7  21.51
1999   757.1   479.6       198.2   24.2    0.0   15.2  237.6         169.4   19.8    0.0  189.2        48.4    89.1  37.08
2000   967.3   612.8       253.2   31.0    0.0   30.7  314.8         214.7   25.5    0.0  240.2         74.6   163.7  57.83
2001  1,212.5   768.1      317.5   38.9    0.0   46.6  403.0         250.8   32.2    0.0  283.0    120.0   283.7  81.48
2002  1,495.6   947.5      391.5   48.0    0.0   76.8  516.4         308.1   40.0    0.0  348.2    168.2   451.9 105.25
2003  1,848.6  1,171.1     483.9   59.4    0.0  121.4  664.7         379.4   49.9    0.0  429.4    235.3   687.3 129.05
2004  2,295.4  1,454.1     600.7   73.9    0.0  182.9  857.5         470.1   62.5    0.0  532.6    325.0  1,012.2 153.76
2005 2,851.8  1,806.6      746.3   91.8    0.0  266.1 1,104.2        580.2   78.1    0.0  658.3    445.9  1,458.1 180.48
2006 3,488.4  2,209.9      913.0  112.2    0.0  355.2 1,380.4        711.8   96.1    0.0  807.9    572.5  2,030.6 206.69
2007 4,217.5  2,671.8   1,103.8  135.7    0.0  457.5 1,696.9         865.8  116.6    0.0  982.4    714.5  2,745.1 233.15
2008  5,032.3  3,188.0   1,317.0  161.8    0.0  570.6 2,049.4   1,037.9  139.5    0.0 1,177.4    872.0  3,617.1 259.97
2009 5,925.7  3,753.9   1,550.8  190.5    0.0  690.7 2,432.1   1,226.9  164.4    0.0 1,391.3  1,040.7  4,657.8 287.10
2010 6,878.5  4,357.6   1,800.4  221.0    0.0  812.3 2,833.6   1,431.7  190.7    0.0 1,622.4  1,211.2  5,869.1 314.28
2011 7,886.0  4,995.8   2,064.2  253.1    0.0  928.1 3,245.4   1,649.4  218.1    0.0 1,867.5  1,377.9  7,247.0 342.54
2012 8,923.0 5,652.8   2,335.7  286.2    0.0 1,030.1 3,652.0   1,869.8  245.9    0.0 2,115.7  1,536.4  8,783.3 371.55
2013  9,954.7  6,306.4   2,605.8  318.9    0.0 1,109.3 4,034.1   2,091.4  272.6    0.0 2,364.0  1,670.1 10,453.4 401.77
2014 10,949.7  6,936.7   2,866.5  350.4    0.0 1,156.0 4,372.9   2,304.3  297.5    0.0 2,601.9  1,771.0 12,224.4 433.21
2015 11,866.2  7,517.3   3,106.6  379.4    0.0 1,160.8 4,646.7   2,501.9  319.9    0.0 2,821.8  1,825.0 14,049.4 465.16
2016 12,689.3  8,038.8   3,322.2  405.2    0.0 1,115.7 4,843.1   2,681.2  339.2    0.0 3,020.4  1,822.7 15,872.1 491.61
2017 13,575.2  8,600.0   3,554.1  433.2    0.0 1,258.9 5,246.2   2,868.6  360.1    0.0 3,228.6  2,017.6 17,889.6 519.98
2018 14,518.9  9,197.8   3,801.2  463.0    0.0 1,417.8 5,682.0   3,057.9  382.5    0.0 3,440.4  2,241.5 20,131.2 549.05
2019 15,521.1  9,832.7   4,063.7  494.7    0.0 1,594.1 6,152.5   3,259.8  406.8    0.0 3,666.6  2,485.9 22,617.1 579.49
Jow & JPW, WlFiD BANK
04-05-1996



AM= 2
Page 11 of 11
Table 8: BUI   : Projected Ince Rate, Oost Rate, ard Actarial Balanm  (% of tax bose)
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, 39%
Mmiktary rettrennt ages raised by 3 years
Nal retirnt aes raised by 3 years ovr  rhase-in period of 6 years
INXE REA BY   CE               ouIm  RATE BY TYPE OF BENEFTT    TAX RATE INClFlKSE
Re*fred
Basic  Other   Govt Inter-  T1AL               Sort    Pcp  TOUML   Balarn       Balaoe       FWz
Year          Tax Incue    Sub    est INtN   Persirs   Ts  Grh   CO                  Only      & Fu-d     Ratio
1996        41.29   5.01   0.00   0.24  46.54       40.49   4.15   0.00  44.63      -1.66      -0.23       3.00
1997        41.30   5.03   0.00   0.89  47.23       38.16   4.13   0.00  42.28      -4.05      -2.62      6.00
1998        41.30   5.03   0.00   1.85  48.18       38.08   4.14   0.00  42.22      -4.11      -2.86      9.00
1999        41.32   5.05   0.00   3.17  49.54       35.32   4.13   0.00  39.45      -6.91      -5.58      12.00
2000        41.31   5.05   0.00   5.01  51.38       35.03   4.17   0.00  39.20      -7.16      -6.36      15.00
2001        41.33   5.07   0.00   6.07  52.47       32.65   4.19   0.00  36.84      -9.55      -8.35      18.00
2002        41.32   5.07   0.00   8.11  54.50       32.52   4.23   0.00  36.75      -9.65      -8.43      21.00
2003        41.32   5.08   0.00  10.37  56.76       32.40   4.26   0.00  36.67      -9.73      -8.50      24.00
2004        41.31   5.08   0.00   12.58  58.97      32.33   4.30   0.00  36.62      -9.77      -9.41      25.00
2005        41.31   5.08   0.00   14.73  61.12      32.12   4.32   0.00  36.44      -9.95     -10.08      25.00
2006        41.31   5.08   0.00   16.07  62.46      32.21   4.35   0.00  36.56      -9.83      -9.93      25.00
2007        41.31   5.08   0.00   17.12  63.51      32.40   4.36   0.00  36.77      -9.62      -9.74      25.00
2008        41.31   5.08   0.00   17.90  64.29      32.56   4.38   0.00   36.93     -9.46      -9.59      25.00
2009        41.31   5.07   0.00   18.40  64.79      32.68   4.38   0.00  37.06      -9.32      -9.46     25.00
2010        41.32   5.07   0.00   18.64  65.03      32.85   4.38   0.00   37.23     -9.15      -9.30      25.00
2011        41.32   5.07   0.00  18.58  64.96       33.02   4.37   0.00  37.38      -9.00      -9.17      25.00
2012        41.32   5.06   0.00   18.22  64.61      33.08   4.35   0.00  37.43      -8.96      -9.13      25.00
2013        41.32   5.06   0.00   17.59  63.97      33.16   4.32   0.00  37.49      -8.89      -9.09      25.00
2014        41.32   5.05   0.00   16.66  63.04      33.22   4.29   0.00  37.51      -8.87      -9.07      25.00
2015        41.33   5.05   0.00   15.44  61.81      33.28   4.26   0.00  37.54      -8.84      -9.03      25.00
2016        41.33   5.04   0.00  13.88  60.25       33.35   4.22   0.00  37.57      -8.79      -8.87      25.00
2017        41.33   5.04   0.00   14.64  61.00      33.36   4.19   0.00  37.54      -8.82      -8.93      25.00
2018        41.33   5.03   0.00   15.41  61.78      33.25   4.16   0.00  37.40      -8.96      -9.06      25.00
2019        41.33   5.03   0.00   16.21  62.57      33.15   4.14   0.00  37.29      -9.07      -9.19      25.00
VALU
1996-2020   41.32   5.06   0.00  12.26  58.63       33.79   4.26   0.00  38.05      -8.32      -7.96
JCW & JPW, WCWD BANK
04-05-1996






-65 -Annex 3
Pag 1 of 7
LETrER OF SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
To: Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank
Bulgaria is seeking a loan from the World Bank in support of
our Social Insurance Project. The goal of the proposed project is to
update and modernize the administrative and organizational
capabilities of the social insurance system to meet the challenge of
providing affordable pensions and other benefits within a post -
transition economy characterized by increasing labour force
mobility. The loan will finance investments in record keeping,
collections and payment operations through the development of
administrative reforms and the implementation of a modem
automated insurance system. It will also finance the organization
the organization of new upgraded capabilities to improve policy
making by providing management the capacity to make ongoing
long-run actuarial projections, to evaluate the social and economic
impacts of current policies and alternative proposals, and to
develop a program of public affairs to interface with media in order
to provide regular information and education of the population, as
well as to create a modern and efficient potential for human
resources management.
Background
The main objective of Government economic policy
continues to be to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and restore
economic growth. This is to be achieved by substantial fiscal
adjustment and tight monetary policy, combined with the
acceleration of structural reforms and pro-active Government
measures to stimulate growth. While progress has not been
consistent in all areas, recent successes are apparent in the
slackening of inflation in 1995. our recent history of rapid inflation
and sharply declining production since transition, however, has had
a serious impact on the social sector with reduced public
For the conecrtness of tr:mlaxion
M.HM    )    Q



- 66 -                           Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
confidence in the current social security system due to sharp
declines in the purchasing power of pensions and ever higher rates
of contributions.
Our problems financing pension payments are exacerbated by
an extremely large proportion of elderly in the population and a
significant segment of the work force covered by special early
retirement provisions. As a consequence, pension payments last
year took up over 10,5% of GDP.
To address the joint issues of a lack of public confidence in
the system and an excessive fiscal burden, we are undertaking a
systematic reform of the social insurance program in order to
transform it into a modem system of affordable insurance that
relies on a multi pillar approach of public pensions and privately
managed (though publicly regulated) mandatory and voluntary
programs and individual initiatives. This reform is part of the
Concept for social insurance and public assistance reform approved
with a Resolution of the Council of Ministers of March 18, 1996.
Current Reforms
In 1995 we passed legislation creating the necessary
preconditions for further reform. In particular, we created an
independent body, the National Social Security Institute (NSSI), to
collect social insurance contributions and make pension payments.
The Institute will also pay short term insurance benefits in the cases
of absences related to sickness and maternity. By creating a
separate institution we re-established transparency in the program
by separating the Social Insurance Fund from the State Budget.
This should enable accurate accounting of Fund revenues,
including payroll contributions from the State sector. On the
expenditure side, complete transparency is yet to be achieved since
at present family allowances such as child benefit continue to be
paid through the Social Insurance Institute. It is our intention to
separate these benefits from the fund as soon as it is
administratively feasible since, by definition, they do not qualify as
social insurance payments.
The Social Insurance Institute is under the general direction
of a Supervisory Board, consisting of representatives of employers,
employees and the government . This supervision is intended to
help restore confidence in the system by providing a clear stake in
For the consctness of translation:
M.HiI



- 67 -                           Anex 3
Page 3 of 7
management to those parties financing an d benefiting from the
system.
Several other measures to improve income and expenditures
within the system also have been passed as first steps towards a
broader structural reform. Recently the mandatory retirement age
has been raised by three years so that women over age 55 and men
over age 60 can choose to stay on their jobs. Second, employers
must now make the entire social insurance contributions on the
wage payments. We have changed contribution requirements so
that employees directly pay a 2 percent payioll tax to finance social
insurance. This change was  adopted as a first step towards
introducing a strict connection between pension benefits and
pension contributions. Further, after years of ad hoc lump sum
indexing, we have realigned benefits to relate them more closely to
their initial relationship  with the overall distribution of wages
(while continuing to cap benefits at a maximum payment). By
restoring fairness to the benefit structure, these changes should also
help increase the credibility of the social insurance system overall.
Our Future Strategy
The guidelines for future policy changes incorporate a system
of social insurance combined with the provision of funded, privately
managed, supplementary pensions offered on an occupational,
employment, or individual basis. The pension fund would be part of
a broader Social Insurance Institute that would   eventually
encompass: (I) a pension fund; (ii) a sickness and maternity fund;
(iii) an unemployment fund and (iv) an occupational injury and
disability fund.
The system will be reformed based on classic insurance
principles in which contributions are collected based on the
earnings paid over individual's entire working lives. Further,
individuals' future pensions will depend upon their total
contributions with some limited adjustments possible for equality
reasons. Benefits that are entirely a form of social assistance will be
separated from the fund. The system will be evaluated on the basis
of actuarial forecasts which will provide information on revenue
requirements and benefit constraints. The financial stability of the
system will be ensured by policv adjustments made on the basis of
these requirements. However, the intention is that the system will
For the correctness of zransiation:
M.Hill  1   U



- 68 -                         Amex 3
Page 4 of 7
build up a sufficient level of funding reserves to enable promises to
be met. The system will be financed through employer and
employee contributions, with transfers from the state budget
eventually limited to governmental pension obligations.
The issues related to restructuring the system will be settled
with the passage of a package of material laws.
For starting and developing the reform the following bills
should be drafted and passed by the Parliament by the autumn of
1996:
In the new Pensions Act the retirement conditions should be
made stricter by raising the average retirement age and the
required years of service, and, at the same time, by providing the
possibility for early retirement with reduced pension. Through the
formula the size of the pension should be directly related to the
contributions of the employee.
The Empoymnent Incentives and Unemployment Protection
AcLwill provide for the institutionalisation of Professional
Qualification and Unemployment Fund as part of the social
insurance system. This will require setting up the fund, separating it
from the structure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare
and establishing new administrative and financial relations with the
National Employment Office.
The Voluntary and Additional Social Insurance Act should
settle the issues resulting from the establishment of corporate,
professional and private social insurance organisations working on
the basis of free negotiations between legal entities - social security
providers and individuals and social insurance organisations as
typical market objects. The Act should determine the level and
forms of state regulation (monitoring, supervision and, if necessary
- intervention) and protection of the interests of the individuals
from unconscientious social insurance providers.
The Act on Occupational Iniury and Illness Fund wi
regulate the rights,the procedure and the size of payments in the
cases of occupational injury or illness which will be financed fully
by the employers.
For the cormctness of tmnsLation:
M.Hfill  Xr



- 69 -                          Annex
Page 5 of 7
The new Act on Sickness and Maternity Fund will provide
for the rights, the procedure and the size of the social insurance
payments in the cases of temporary incapacity for work or
temporary reduced capacity for work which compensate part of the
earnings of the employees and part of the medical expences. This
bill will solve the problem of medical insurance by extending the
powers of the current system of short-term benefits. The adoption
of this idea will mean rejection of the scenarios for setting up a
separate Medical Insurance Fund. At the same time, the issue of
state budget financing of science, education and training of staff
and allowances for the state organised health agencies which
should be subordinated to the Ministry of Health and financed by
the state budget (The Hygiene and Epidemiology Institute, the
emergency medical services etc.) needs to find its positive solution.
This bill can realistically be drafted and passed in the beginning of
1997.
At the end of next year such approach will provide the
following:
- a modernized state mandatory social insurance system, managed
based on the principle of parity by all participants, financed by four
autonomous social insurance funds (Pension Fund, Unemployment
Fund, Sickness and Maternity Fund and Occupational Injury and
Illness Fund) with a joint scientific research, actuarial, information
and control systems;
- a developed market (in addition to state social insurance) of
additional voluntary insurance paid by corporate, professional
(industry branch) and private insurance institutions licensed
monitored by the state and with tax incentives from the state.
In the future the effort will be directed towards guaranteeing
the level of benefits paid by the state system and their increase on
the account of the additional and voluntary insurance.
Each year a re-distribution of weight of the participation of
state, employers and employees will be made with the objective to
stabilize the state social insurance system. In addition to that with
the growth of the level of employment conditions will be created to
reduce the size of contributions. The changed retirement conditions
- increased retirement age and increased number of years of
service - will facilitate the latter. At the same time a legal possibility
will be provided for earlier retirement with respectively reduced
pension .
For the cormctness of rranslation:
MHiM



- 70 -                            _
Page 6 of 7
The retirement obligations for the first and second categories
of labour will be changed whereby for the differences in the length
of social insurance a system of occupational insurance schemes or
schemes the place of work will be set up.
With exeption of a few selected occupational schemes such as
those for the armed forces, police etc, the bulk of the occupational
schemes will be privately managed.
Of course, throughout the reform, transitional issues will have
to be addressed as the system is transformed from the old
framework to one that is contribution-related and partly funded.
Conclusion
We feel that the Social Reform Project will provide a major
source of assistance. That will allow us to implement the policy of
reforms we have started and prepare for anticipated changes to the
benefits formula.
In the absence of a system   that records individual earnings
for the working population, the social insurance reform cannot be
changed to one which will pay pensions and short-termn benefits on
the basis of contributions. Further, it is crucial that we have the
capacity to analyze the financial and economnic impact of reform
before specifying the precise levels of benefits and contributions
required in the future.
Reform notwithstanding, the Social Reform Project is crucial
to the continuation of current procedures prior to the phase-in of
the new system. With increased labour force mobility and the
possibility of periodic or sustained periods of unemployment among
the working age population, it is imperative to be able to track
pension entitlements across employers and states of labour force
activity.
For the comctncss of Uftlatdon
M.Hill 4; Q



- 71 -                            Ame 3
Pagp 7 of 7
We also feel that the progress made to date in implementing
our planned program of social insurance reform provides a real
assurance to the World Bank that the Social Reform Project will
do more than just support the current system but enable the
implementation of a broader program of structural refonn to
which our Government is strongly committed.
Sincerely,
Minister of Finance:
(D. Kostov)
Minister of Labour
and Social Welfare:
(M. Koralski)
Governor of NSSI:
(N. Nikolov)
For the co,recmess of \vnsIation.
M.Hail     I Q






-73-                        Annex 4
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
COST RECOVERY AND FISCAL IMPACT
1.            The project will increase revenues through enhanced contribution collections and
reduce expenditures through more efficient benefits administration. Further, it will reduce the time-
costs of clients through more efficient delivery of services. The improvement in contribution
collections will result in savings similar to those observed in tax administration projects funded by the
Ba,nk. One evaluation of the impact of tax reform in Argentina (Morisset and Lzquierdo, 1993) found
that nearly three-fourths of the improvement in VAT collection could be attributed to improvements in
tax administration procedures. The study controlled for the impact of increases in GDP, reductions in
inflation, and increases in the rate of taxation. In general, the institution of improved tax
administration procedures can be expected to increase revenues measurably, particularly when macro-
economic policies provide a stable environment.
2.            The project represents an extremely cost-effective use of Bank funds on a benefit-cost
basis, comparing the net gain in revenue to the cost of the loan to the Bank and other donors.1'
Under pessimistic assumptions, revenues are assumed to increase by 1 percent relative to the base
case. This translates into a small increase in the tax compliance rate, that is, the percentage of
potential revenues that are actually collected, from 63.4 percent to 64.0 percent.v In terms of loan
efficacy, the benefit-cost ratio, the present value of fiscal savings to the cost of the loan, is 15.2 to 1
in the year 2000, the first year that benefits from the new system can be expected (Table 5).-Y Other
indicators of loan success are equally favorable; the internal rate of return to the loan is 38.5 percent
in 2004 compared to a nominal interest rate of 24.25 percent. The present value of savings to the
fund is BUL 14.5 billion by 2020. Under the pessimistic scenario of project performance, increased
revenues could be used to reduce the current tax rate by 1.67 percentage points in 2004. This
represents a reduction of 0.4 percentage points more than could be considered under current
operational policies.
1' Recurring costs to the NSSI have not been considered. These would raise administrative expenses by, at most,
11 percent on an ongoing basis. These expenses would have to be balanced by countervailing personnel
expenditures if audit procedures were not changed to incorporate modem methods. Further, other operating costs
related to communications can be expected to decline over time as a result of modernized telecommunications.
v These estimates are based on the Actuarial Model constructed by John Wilken and John Patrick Wiesn for the
NSSI under Japan Grant funding. The model incorporates assumptions about real GDP growth and inflation basd
on World Bank mid-term projections to 2005, judgementally extended to 2020. Labor force estimates come from
the Wilken/Wiese model and are based on their demographic projections and labor force participation rate of 56.9
percent for men age 15 and over and 47.3 percent for women age 15 and over. Trends in these vaiabla are
provided in Table 9.
3 Tables 1 and 2, respectively, present figures on the operations and the income rates for the fund under
current policies, with no loan provided. Tables 2 and 3, respectively, present figures on the operations and the
income rates for the fund under the pessimistic assumptions.



- 74 -                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 12
3.             A more optimistic scenario of the cost effectiveness and fiscal impact of the project
was developed based on a 10 percent increase in revenues. This rate of improvement derives from
World Bank experience with tax administration projects in other settings. Another source of savings
would be the reduction of expenditures, particularly for short-term benefits, due to the system's
greater ability to detect fraud and abuse. The quantification of savings from the reduction of
inappropriate payments is purely judgmental, since there is little past experience with success in this
area. Overall reductions in benefit payments of 1 percent for pensions and 10 percent for short-term
benefits appear to define reasonably the potential for improvements in expenditure control.
4.            According to the more optimistic assumptions, the benefit-cost ratio defined as the
present value of fiscal savings to the cost of the loan is 56.9 in the year 2000, the first year that
benefits from the new system can be expected (Table 8).' Under these assumptions, the internal rate
of return to the loan would be 70.0 percent in 2004, compared to a nominal interest rate of 24.25
percent. The present value of savings to the fund is BUL 141.5 billion by 2020. These savings
imply an increase in the tax compliance rate from 63.4 to 69.6 percent. Perhaps the most favorable
outcome of the optimistic scenario is the finding that the project would allow for a reduction in the
tax rate of 3.5 percentage points by 2004, while continuing to allow the build-up of a contingency
reserve, implying an effective rate of 37.8 percent.5' By the end of the projection period in 2019, the
effective tax rate could be reduced by 5.8 percentage points to 35.5 percent if a contingency reserve
had been created.@
5.            The compliance rates used in the actuarial analysis may represent an optimistic
forecast of revenues under current collection procedures. The growth of the private sector will tend
to reduce collections in response to current high payroll tax rates. In addition, to the extent that
private-sector growth is concentrated among small employers, collection rates will naturally decline as
effective audit and enforcement is more difficult to implement among small firms, particularly under
current administrative conditions. Declining compliance would have a long-term secondary impact on
expenditures, as well, as noncomplying businesses would be unlikely to keep records for their
employees for either short-term or long-term benefit eligibility. In an atmosphere of fraud and abuse,
however, revenues would be likely to decline more than expenditures, particularly since ultimate
declines in pension entitlements would only become evident in the out years. Nonetheless, even if a
declining compliance base and less favorable revenues were assumed in additional actuarial forecasts,
the impact of implementing the project with stronger auditing procedures and better information
would be to significantly raise collections above the base level. The ratio of benefits to costs might
4' Tables 6 and 7, respectively, present figures on the operations and the income rates for the fund under the
optimistic assumptions.
5 The effective tax rate reflects a basic tax rate of 39 percent for most workers and tax rates of 49 percent and
54 percent for workers entitled to special early retirement benefits. The small fluctuations in the effective tax
rate reflect fluctuations in the distribution of workers at alternative rates.
Y The payroll tax rate could be reduced even more if legislation were passed to raise the retirement age by 3 years.
Under those circumstances, the effective tax rate could be lowered from 41.2 percent of payroll to 30.1 percent by
2004 and 28.6 percent by 2019.



- 75 -                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 12
actually be stronger if more pessimistic compliance assumptions were used, since the new system is
likely to have a greater impact on private-sector collections than on those for state owned enterprises.
6.            The economic benefits from the project are underestimated by the fiscal analysis
presented above, as staff increases that would be necessary to maintain operational procedures are not
taken into account, nor are decreases in services and compliance that would result from static staffing
patterns. The expansion of administrative expenses in the short term is already apparent.
Administrative expenses for 1996 are budgeted to be more than 250 percent higher than their 1994
levels in nominal terms. By contrast, pension payments are budgeted to rise by just over 190 percent
compared to 1994.
7.            Odter economic benefits stem from long-run reductions in reporting and administrative
requirements for employers. Gains to workers and pensioners will accrue in terms of ease of the
benefits application process, better and faster responses to inquiries, faster processing of decisions,
and quicker and more accurate payment procedures.
8.            The implementation and expansion of analytic and information capacities within the
NSSI provide the means to promote public policies that will support economic growth and
development. While it is not feasible to estimate the impact of these institutional changes on the
economy as a whole, the importance of tools to strengthen the policy framework cannot be
underestimated.



AlrTex 4
Page 4 of 12
Table 1: BUI R: Pojeted Cperaticsn of the Social Insurance FUnd (billicns of leva)
Base Case Without Toan
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
Marndatory retirement ages raised by 3 years.
INOCME BY SOURCE                    CUMtOJ BY TYPE OF BE2NEI
cply ------------ --                      -----------   ----------------------------1--- -        rage    Fuxd   Fmd
Full  Reduced       Basic   Other    Govt  Inter-  '1U]vL                  Short       P    IUL   in Furd           at  Ratio
Year  Talxbse  Taxbase          Tax  Inoome      Sub      est  INX1wE   Pensicns    Term  Gr=th   CUWID   Balance            EOY  % EaY
1996    355.3    225.1         92.9    11.3      0.0      0.5   104.8        91.1      9.3      0.0   100.5        4.3       4.3   3.35
1997    450.0    285.1        117.7    14.3      0.0      1.6   133.6       116.2    11.8       0.0   128.0        5.6       9.9   6.11
1998    570.6    361.5        149.2    18.1      0.0      3.3   170.6       146.9    15.1       0.0   162.0        8.7      18.6   9.07
1999    726.0    459.9        189.8    23.1      0.0      6.1   219.0       185.4    19.2       0.0   204.6       14.4      32.9  12.68
2000    926.5    586.9        242.2    29.4      0.0    10.8   282.5        234.9    24.7       0.0   259.6       22.8      55.8  17.49
2001  1,137.9    720.9        297.4    36.2      0.0    14.7   348.3        288.2    30.7       0.0   318.9       29.4      85.2  21.69
2002  1,401.3    887.8        366.3    44.5      0.0    22.0   432.9        354.6    38.2       0.0   392.8       40.1    125.2  25.77
2003  1,729.0  1,095.3        452.0    55.0      0.0    32.4   539.4        438.4    47.6       0.0   486.0       53.4    178.7  29.56
2004  2,142.9  1,357.5        560.1    68.2      0.0    46.1   674.3        544.9    59.5       0.0   604.4       70.0    248.6  33.15
2005  2,661.3  1,686.0        695.6    84.7      0.0    63.8   844.0        675.7    74.3       0.0   750.0       94.0    342.7  37.20
2006  3,257.2  2,063.5        851.4   103.6      0.0    81.6 1,036.6        829.6    91.5       0.0   921.1      115.5    458.1  40.97
2007  3,934.9  2,492.8    1,028.6   125.2        0.0   100.9 1,254.7    1,007.3   111.1         0.0 1,118.3      136.4    594.6  44.31
2008  4,692.7  2,972.9    1,226.9   149.2        0.0   120.7 1,496.7    1,208.9   132.8         0.0 1,341.7      155.0    749.6  47.22
2009  5,524.3  3,499.7    1,444.3   175.6        0.0   139.6 1,759.5    1,431.1   156.5         0.0 1,587.6      171.9    921.5  49.73
2010  6,419.7  4,066.9    1,678.5   203.9        0.0   156.7 2,039.1    1,671.1   181.7         0.0 1,852.9      186.2  1,107.7  52.08
2011  7,364.3  4,665.3    1,925.6   233.7        0.0   171.3 2,330.6    1,919.1   207.8         0.0 2,126.9      203.7  1,311.4  54.52
2012  8,330.9  5,277.7    2,178.5   264.1        0.0   182.8 2,625.5    2,170.9   234.2         0.0 2,405.2      220.3  1,531.7  57.00
2013  9,298.2  5,890.5    2,431.6   294.5        0.0   189.9 2,916.0    2,427.5   259.7         0.0 2,687.2      228.8  1,760.6  59.61
2014 10,234.0  6,483.3    2,676.3   323.8        0.0   191.7 3,191.8    2,670.1   283.4         0.0 2,953.5      238.3  1,998.8  62.52
2015 11,103.5  7,034.1    2,903.8   350.9        0.0   187.5 3,442.2    2,892.4   304.9         0.0 3,197.3      244.9  2,243.7  65.75
2016 11,879.6  7,525.8    3,106.8   375.0        0.0   176.5 3,658.4    3,089.3   323.3         0.0 3,412.5      245.9  2,489.6  68.33
2017 12,705.1  8,048.8    3,322.6   400.7        0.0   196.0 3,919.3    3,300.5   342.9         0.0 3,643.4      275.9  2,765.5  71.22
2018 13,585.0  8,606.2    3,552.5   428.2        0.0   218.0 4,198.7    3,519.1   364.1         0.0 3,883.2      315.5  3,081.0  74.44
2019 14,523.5  9,200.7    3,797.7   457.5        0.0   243.2 4,498.5    3,751.6   387.1         0.0 4,138.7      359.8  3,440.8  78.14
304 & JEW, wl  BAK
04-05-1996



Aue 4
Pla  5 of 12
Tile 2: BILaNI: Projected Irwne Rate, oost Rate, and Acturial Balance (% of tax be)
Bar Ce Nit3xM Tom
Thc rates of 54%, 49%, 39*
R'_ratcry retirLeni ages raised by 3 yearus
DCII  RaE BY SOURE                m N RI BY TIP! CF BE2IT          MX RAIN  R
----------------------------------------  --------------------------------   ------------------- a
Basic  other   Gt Inter-  11L                    Short    P)IUL   Ealwae    Dance                  P
Year          Tax i9.         Sub    est    XE   Pauicnu   Them Gu             mi  Cklly            F uWnd   Ratio
1996        41.29    5.01    0.00   0.24   46.54     40.49   4.15    0.00   44.63      -1.66       -0.17      3.00
1997        41.28   5.01    0.00   0.57  46.86       40.75   4.15    0.00  44.89       -1.40        0.12      6.00
1998        41.28    5.01    0.00    0.91   47.20    40.64    4.16    0.00  44.81      -1.48        0.02       9.00
1999        41.27    5.01   0.00    1.32   47.60     40.31   4.18    0.00   44.48      -1.80       -0.30      12.00
2000        41.27    5.02    0.00    1.84   48.12     40.01   4.22    0.00   44.23     -2.05       -0.85      15.00
2001        41.26    5.02    0.00   2.04   48.32      39.98   4.26    0.00  44.24      -2.04       -0.59      18.00
2002        41.26    5.02    0.00   2.48   48.76      39.94    4.30    0.00  44.25     -2.03       -0.54      21.00
2003        41.26   5.02   0.00   2.96  49.24         40.02   4.34   0.00  44.37       -1.91       -0.40      24.00
2004        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.39  49.67         40.14   4.38   0.00  44.52       -1.76       -1.28      25.00
2005        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.78  50.06        40.08   4.41   0.00  44.49        -1.79       -1.94      25.00
2006        41.26   5.02   0.00   3.95  50.24        40.20   4.44   0.00  44.64        -1.64       -1.78      25.00
2007        41.26   5.02   0.00   4.05   50.33       40.41   4.46   0.00  44.86        -1.42       -1.55      25.00
2008        41.27   5.02   0.00   4.06  50.35        40.66   4.47   0.00  45.13        -1.16       -1.30     25.00
2009        41.27   5.02   0.00   3.99  50.28        40.89   4.47   0.00  45.37        -0.92       -1.08     25.00
2010        41.27   5.01   0.00   3.85  50.14        41.09   4.47   0.00  45.56        -0.73       -0.93     25.00
2011        41.27   5.01   0.00   3.67  49.96        41.13   4.45   0.00  45.59        -0.69       -0.92      25.00
2012        41.28   5.01   0.00   3.46  49.75        41.13   4.44   0.00  45.57        -0.71       -0.93     25.00
2013        41.28   5.00   0.00   3.22  49.50        41.21   4.41   0.00  45.62        -0.66       -0.91      25.00
2014        41.28   4.99   0.00   2.96  49.23        41.18   4.37   0.00  45.56        -0.72       -0.99     25.00
2015        41.28   4.99   0.00   2.67  48.94        41.12   4.33   0.00  45.45        -0.82       -1.09     25.00
2016        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.35  48.61        41.05   4.30   0.00  45.34        -0.92       -1.03     25.00
2017        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.43  48.69        41.01   4.26   0.00  45.27        -0.99       -1.12     25.00
2018        41.28   4.98   0.00   2.53  48.79        40.89   4.23   0.00  45.12        -1.13       -1.26     25.00
2019        41.28   4.97   0.00   2.64   48.89       40.77   4.21    0.00   44.98      -1.27       -1.41     25.00
E3Nr
1996-2020   41.27   5.01   0.00   2.70  48.98        40.61   4.33   0.00  44.94        -1.34       -0.91
EI &JIM, 1CD BAl



Annex 4
Page 6 of 12
Table 3:  BULGARIA:  Projected Cperaticms of the Social Insurance PuSrx  (billicns of leva)
Pessimistic Loan Perfornance - revenue increased by 1% over pbase-in period of 3 years.
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, 39%
Marndatory retirefent age raised by 3 years.
INCfME BY SOIRCE                    CUTGO BY TYPE OF BENEIT
aply    --------------- ---------   --- - --- ------- ------- -----------    Char ge                      Funld   F\und
Full  Red&Ked       Basic   Other    Gbvt  Inter-   1OTAL                  Short      PcIP 'T1L   in Fund           at  Ratio
Year  Taxbase  ?axbase          Tax  Incoie      Sub      est  INDM    Pensicns    Term  Growth   CUTI    Balance            EOY  % ECY
1996    355.3    225.1         92.9    11.3      0.0      0.5   104.8        91.1      9.3      0.0   100.5        4.3       4.3   3.35
1997    450.0    285.1        117.7    14.3      0.0      1.6   133.6       116.2    11.8       0.0   128.0        5.6       9.9   6.11
1998    570.6    361.5        149.2    18.1      0.0      3.3   170.6       146.9    15.1       0.0   162.0        8.7      18.6   9.07
1999    726.0    459.9        189.8    23.1      0.0      6.1   219.0       185.4    19.2       0.0   204.6       14.4      32.9  12.68
2000    926.5    588.8        243.0    29.4      0.0    10.9   283.3        234.9    24.7       0.0   259.6       23.7      56.6  17.76
2001  1,137.9    725.4        299.3    36.2      0.0    15.2   350.6        288.2    30.7       0.0   318.9       31.7      88.3  22.49
2002  1,401.3    896.6        369.9    44.5      0.0    23.2   437.7        354.6    38.2       0.0   392.8       44.8    133.2  27.41
2003  1,729.0  1,106.2        456.4    55.0      0.0    34.9   546.3        438.4    47.6       0.0   486.0       60.3    193.5  32.02
2004  2,142.9  1,371.0        565.7    68.2      0.0    50.3   684.1        544.9    59.5       0.0   604.4       79.8    273.3  36.44
2005  2,661.3  1,702.7        702.5    84.7      0.0    70.5   857.7        675.7    74.3       0.0   750.0      107.7    381.0  41.36
2006  3,257.2  2,084.0        859.8   103.6      0.0    91.2 1,054.7        829.6    91.5       0.0   921.1      133.6    514.6  46.01
2007  3,934.9  2,517.6    1,038.9   125.2        0.0   114.0 1,278.0    1,007.3   111.1         0.0 1,118.3      159.7    674.2  50.25
2008  4,692.7  3,002.4    1,239.0   149.2        0.0   137.6 1,525.8    1,208.9   132.8         0.0 1,341.7      184.1    858.4  54.07
2009  5,524.3  3,534.4    1,458.6   175.6        0.0   160.7 1,795.0    1,431.1   156.5         0.0 1,587.6      207.3  1,065.7  57.52
2010  6,419.7  4,107.4    1,695.1   203.9        0.0   182.2 2,081.3    1,671.1   181.7         0.0 1,852.9      228.4  1,294.1  60.84
2011  7,364.3  4,711.7    1,944.7   233.7        0.0   201.1 2,379.5    1,919.1   207.8         0.0 2,126.9      252.6  1,546.7  64.31
2012  8,330.9  5,330.1    2,200.2   264.1        0.0   216.6 2,680.9    2,170.9   234.2         0.0 2,405.2      275.8  1,822.5  67.82
2013  9,298.2  5,949.0    2,455.8   294.5        0.0   227.0 2,977.3    2,427.5   259.7         0.0 2,687.2      290.0  2,112.6  71.53
2014 10,234.0  6,547.8    2,702.9   323.8        0.0   230.9 3,257.6    2,670.1   283.4         0.0 2,953.5      304.1  2,416.7  75.59
2015 11,103.5  7,104.0    2,932.6   350.9        0.0   227.4 3,511.0    2,892.4   304.9         0.0 3,197.3      313.7  2,730.4  80.01
2016 11,879.6  7,600.6    3,137.7   375.0        0.0   215.4 3,728.2    3,089.3   323.3         0.0 3,412.5      315.6  3,046.0  83.60
2017 12,705.1  8,128.8    3,355.6   400.7        0.0   240.4 3,996.7    3,300.5   342.9         0.0 3,643.4      353.3  3,399.3  87.54
2018 13,585.0  8,691.7    3,587.8   428.2        0.0   268.5 4,284.5    3,519.1   364.1         0.0 3,883.2      401.3  3,800.6  91.83
2019 14,523.5  9,292.1    3,835.4   457.5        0.0   300.4 4,593.4    3,751.6   387.1         0.0 4,138.7      454.7  4,255.3  96.63
JCW & JPA, kD   BAN
04-05-1996



Arnwx 4
Page 7 of 12
Table 4: flBUXLPR: Projected Ixne Rate, Cbst Rate, ani Actuarial Balance (% of tax base)
Pessimdstic Loan PerfounwKoe - revenue increased by 1% over pbase-i2n period of 3 years
Tax rates of 54%,49% and 39%.
Mandatory retireLent ages raised by 3 years.
DCME RATE BY 90URCE              CUW    RAIE BY TYPE OF BENEFIT     TAX RATE INCREASE
_- - _ _- - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _ _- -- - - - - - - - -                                -----------------------------------------------------R e q u ir e d
Basic  Other  G(ivt  Inter-  IUAL                 Short     Pc     UIOL   Balanoe    Balance         Fund
Year           Tax  Irxme    Sub       est  rNaoE   Pensicnsr  Tenm Gr          CUIOD     Coly        & Fund     Ratio
1996        41.29    5.01    0.00    0.24   46.54      40.49   4.15    0.00   44.63        -1.66       -0.17      3.00
1997        41.28    5.01    0.00    0.57   46.86      40.75   4.15    0.00   44.89        -1.40       0.12       6.00
1998        41.28    5.01    0.00    0.91  47.20        40.64   4.16    0.00   44.81       -1.48        0.02       9.00
1999        41.27    5.01    0.00    1.32  47.60       40.31    4.18    0.00   44.48      -1.80        -0.30     12.00
2000         41.27    5.00    0.00    1.85   48.12      39.89   4.20    0.00   44.09      -2.18        -0.98      15.00
2001         41.26    4.98    0.00    2.09  48.33       39.73    4.23    0.00   43.96      -2.28       -0.84      18.00
2002         41.26   4.97    0.00    2.58  48.81        39.55   4.26    0.00   43.81      -2.42        -0.94     21.00
2003        41.26    4.97    0.00    3.15   49.38       39.63    4.30    0.00   43.93      -2.30       -0.80     24.00
2004        41.26    4.97    0.00    3.67   49.90       39.74    4.34    0.00   44.08      -2.15       -1.67     25.00
2005        41.26   4.97    0.00    4.14   50.37       39.68    4.37    0.00   44.05      -2.18        -2.32     25.00
2006        41.26   4.97    0.00    4.38   50.61       39.81    4.39    0.00   44.20       -2.03       -2.17     25.00
2007        41.26    4,97    0.00    4.53   50.76      40.01    4.41    0.00   44.42       -1.82       -1.94     25.00
2008        41.27   4.97    0.00    4.58   50.82       40.26    4.42    0.00   44.69      -1.55        -1.70     25.00
2009        41.27   4.97    0.00    4.55   50.78       40.49   4.43    0.00   44.92        -1.32       -1.48     25.00
2010        41.27   4.96    0.00    4.44   50.67       40.69    4.42    0.00   45.11      -1.12        -1.33     25.00
2011        41.27   4.96    0.00    4.27   50.50       40.73    4.41    0.00   45.14      -1.09        -1.32     25.00
2012        41.28   4.96    0.00    4.06   50.30       40.73    4.39    0.00   45.12      -1.11        -1.32     25.00
2013        41.28   4.95    0.00    3.82   50.05       40.80    4.37    0.00   45.17       -1.06       -1.31     25.00
2014        41.28    4.94    0.00    3.53   49.75      40.78    4.33    0.00   45.11      -1.12       -1.39      25.00
2015        41.28    4.94    0.00    3.20   49.42      40.72    4.29    0.00   45.01      -1.21       -1.49      25.00
2016        41.28   4.93    0.00    2.83   49.05       40.65    4.25    0.00   44.90      -1.32        -1.42     25.00
2017        41.28   4.93    0.00    2.96  49.17        40.60    4.22    0.00   44.82      -1.39       -1.52      25.00
2018        41.28   4.93    0.00    3.09  49.29        40.49   4.19    0.00   44.68       -1.53        -1.65     25.00
2019        41.28    4.92    0.00    3.23   49.43      40.37    4.17    0.00   44.54      -1.66       -1.81      25.00
PRESENr
VALUE
1996-2020    41.27   4.97    0.00    3.05   49.29      40.30    4.29    0.00   44.59      -1.65       -1.22
JCW & JPW, WUD BANK



Anrex 4
Page 8 of 12
Table 5: BIXRIA: 0xiparian of Base C:e with Pe-simAdtic Loan Perfornrnce
Reveuie increased by 1% wer Ebea-in period of 3 yearn
Tac Rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
tMndatoxy retirffent ages raised by 3 years
(in billicn. of leva)
Phlut of loan:    3.9957 billicn leva
Measres of loan Perforxnce
Without Loan    With Ioan         Savings            Internal     Ratio PV    PV of
--------------  --------------  --------------------   Rate of   Dbtal Save    ToW
Year   Income  Outgo  Income  Cutgo  Inre Outgo 1btal   Return (%)  to Loan (%)  Savings
1996    104.2  100.5   104.2  100.5     0.0   0.0   0.0        -100.0         0.0     0.00
1997    132.0  128.0   132.0  128.0     0.0   0.0   0.0        -100.0         0.0     0.00
1998    167.3  162.0   167.3  162.0     0.0   0.0   0.0        -100.0         0.0     0.00
1999    212.9  204.6   212.9  204.6     0.0   0.0   0.0        -100.0         0.0     0.00
2000    271.7  259.6   272.4  259.6     0.8   0.0   0.8         -15.9        15.2     0.25
2001    333.6  318.9   335.5  318.9     1.9   0.0   1.9           9.3        44.9     0.75                  00
2002    410.8  392.8   414.5  392.8     3.6   0.0   3.6          25.2        91.5     1.52
2003    506.9  486.0   511.4  486.0     4.5   0.0   4.5          33.5        137.9    2.29
2004    628.3  604.4   633.8  604.4     5.6   0.0   5.6          38.5       184.3    3.07
2005    780.3  750.0   787.2  750.0     6.9   0.0   6.9          41.9       230.7    3.84
2006    955.0  921.1   963.5  921.1     8.5   0.0   8.5          44.2       276.6    4.60
2007   1153.8 1118.3  1164.0 1118.3    10.2   0.0  10.2          45.8       322.1    5.36
2008   1376.1 1341.7  1388.3 1341.7    12.2   0.0  12.2          47.0       367.2    6.11
2009   1619.9 1587.6  1634.2 1587.6    14.4   0.0  14.4          47.8        411.7    6.85
2010   1882.4 1852.9  1899.1 1852.9    16.7   0.0  16.7          48.4        455.8    7.58
2011   2159.3 2126.9  2178.4 2126.9    19.1   0.0  19.1          48.9        499.4    8.31
2012   2442.7 2405.2  2464.3 2405.2    21.6   0.0  21.6          49.2       542.4     9.03
2013   2726.1 2687.2  2750.2 2687.2    24.2   0.0  24.2          49.4       585.0    9.73
2014   3000.1 2953.5  3026.7 2953.5    26.6   0.0  26.6          49.6       627.0   10.43
2015   3254.7 3197.3  3283.6 3197.3    28.9   0.0  28.9          49.7       668.4    11.12
2016   3481.9 3412.5  3512.7 3412.5    30.9   0.0  30.9          49.8       709.2   11.80
2017   3723.3 3643.4  3756.3 3643.4    33.0   0.0  33.0          49.8       749.8   12.48
2018   3980.7 3883.2  4016.0 3883.2    35.3   0.0  35.3          49.9       790.0   13.15
2019   4255.3 4138.7  4293.0 4138.7    37.7   0.0  37.7          49.9        829.9   13.81
2020   4547.1 4403.5  4587.5 4403.5    40.3   0.0  40.3          49.9        869.5   14.47
JFW, Wbrld Bank
04-05-1996



Anrex 4
Page 9 of 12
Table 6: BMRIA:  Projected Cperatios of the Social Insuraro Funcl (billicne of leva)
timistic Loan Perfornc.ie - reverue increased 10% over ph*ae-in period of 10 years;
Pencicn beiefits decreased 1% over phase-in period of 3 yearu
Shrt-tern benefits decreased 10% aver phase-in period of 10 years.
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
Mandatory retirement ages raised by 3 years.
MEME BY SOR                      WIU  BY  YPE H OF B IT
Cmply ------------------------------------------  Ciarge  Funxd Fund
Full PRe&wW       Basic  other   Govt  Inter-   'Xr?L                Short          TO T1UAL  in Fund     at Ratio
Year Taxbase Taxbase         Tax  Inoome    Sub    est  INafME   Pensicns   Term  Growth  CID3)  Balance          EDY % ECY
1996    355.3   225.1       92.9   11.3    0.0    0.5  104.8           91.1    9.3    0.0  100.5         4.3      4.3   3.35
1997   450.0   285.1       117.7   14.3    0.0    1.6  133.6          116.2   11.8    0.0  128.0         5.6      9.9  6.11
1998    570.6   361.5      149.2   18.1    0.0    3.3  170.6          146.9   15.1    0.0  162.0         8.7    18.6  9.07
1999   726.0   459.9       189.8   23.1    0.0    6.1  219.0          185.4   19.2    0.0  204.6        14.4    32.9  12.73       x
2000    926.5   591.6      244.1   29.4    0.0   11.2  284.7          234.2   24.5    0.0  258.7        26.1    59.0  18.64
2001  1,137.9   730.0      301.2   36.2    0.0   16.2  353.5          286.5   30.1    0.0  316.6        37.0    96.0  24.73
2002  1,401.3   904.6      373.2   44.5    0.0   25.9  443.6          351.1   37.1    0.0  388.1        55.5   151.5  31.58
2003  1,729.0  1,126.4     464.8   55.0    0.0   40.9  560.7         434.0   45.7    0.0  479.7         81.0   232.5  39.01
2004  2,142.9  1,413.2     583.1   68.2    0.0   62.7  714.0          539.4   56.5    0.0  595.9    118.0   350.5  47.44
2005  2,661.3  1,779.0     734.0   84.7    0.0   94.2  912.8          668.9   69.9    0.0  738.8    174.0   524.5  57.87
2006  3,257.2  2,203.4     909.1  103.6    0.0  130.8 1,143.5         821.3   85.1    0.0  906.4    237.1   761.6  69.28
2007  3,934.9  2,693.3   1,111.4  125.2    0.0  175.7 1,412.3         997.2  102.2    0.0 1,099.4    312.9  1,074.5  81.55
2008 4,692.7  3,244.9   1,339.1  149.2    0.0  228.3 1,716.6   1,196.8  120.9    0.0 1,317.7    399.0  1,473.5  94.60
2009  5,524.3  3,847.4   1,587.8  175.6    0.0  286.9 2,050.3   1,416.8  140.9    0.0 1,557.7    492.6  1,966.1 108.15
2010  6,419.7  4,471.1   1,845.2  203.9    0.0  347.9 2,397.1   1,654.4  163.6    0.0 1,818.0    579.1  2,545.3 121.96
2011  7,364.3  5,128.9   2,116.9  233.7    0.0  407.5 2,758.2   1,899.9  187.0    0.0 2,086.9    671.2  3,216.5 136.29
2012  8,330.9  5,802.1   2,395.0  264.1    0.0  462.2 3,121.3   2,149.2  210.8    0.0 2,360.0    761.3  3,977.8 150.85
2013  9,298.3  6,475.8   2,673.2  294.5    0.0  507.0 3,474.7   2,403.2  233.7    0.0 2,637.0    837.7  4,815.5 166.14
2014 10,234.0  7,127.6   2,942.3  323.8    0.0  536.9 3,802.9   2,643.4  255.1    0.0 2,898.5    904.5  5,720.0 182.29
2015 11,103.5  7,733.1   3,192.3  350.9    0.0  547.4 4,090.7   2,863.5  274.4    0.0 3,137.9    952.8  6,672.8 199.23
2016 11,879.6  8,273.7   3,415.6  375.0    0.0  533.9 4,324.5   3,058.4  290.9    0.0 3,349.3    975.2  7,648.0 213.86
2017 12,705.1  8,848.6   3,652.8  400.7    0.0  610.9 4,664.4   3,267.5  308.6    0.0 3,576.1  1,088.2  8,736.2 229.20
2018 13,585.0  9,461.4   3,905.5  428.2    0.0  696.9 5,030.6   3,483.9  327.7    0.0 3,811.6  1,219.0  9,955.2 245.05
2019 14,523.5 10,115.0   4,175.1  457.5    0.0  793.2 5,425.8   3,714.0  348.4    0.0 4,062.4  1,363.4 11,318.6 261.86
JCW & JPW, WCtUW BANK
04-05- 1996



Annex 4
Page 10 of 12
Table 7: BULUtIA:  Projected Income Rate, Cbst Rate, and Actuarial Balance (% of tax base)
Cptimistic Loan Perfornmance - reverue increased 10% over phase-in period of 10 years;
Pension benefits decreased 1% over phase-in period of 3 years;
Short-term benefits decreased 10 over phase-in period of 10 years
Tax rates of 54%, 49%, and 39%
Mbindatory retirement ages raise by 3 years.
INCThE RATE BY SCURCE              OUPX) RAaE BY TYPE OF BENEFIT       TMX RATE INCREASE
---- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ----- -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---     -------------------    Required
Basic   Other    Govt  Inter-  IOT'L                Short     Pop   1rAL    Balance       Balance       FUnd
Year           Tax  Income      Sub     est  INCoME   Pensions    Trerm  Growth   CUTIG)       Only       & Fund      Ratio
1996         41.29    5.01    0.00    0.24   46.54        40.49    4.15    0.00   44.63       -1.66        -0.17       3.00
1997         41.28    5.01    0.00    0.57   46.86        40.75    4.15    0.00   44.89       -1.40         0.12       6.00
1998         41.28    5.01    0.00    0.91   47.20        40.64    4.16    0.00   44.81       -1.48         0.02       9.00
1999         41.27    5.01    0.00    1.32   47.60        40.31    4.18    0.00   44.48       -1.80        -0.33      12.00
2000         41.27    4.98    0.00    1.89   48.13        39.58    4.14    0.00   43.72       -2.52        -1.36      15.00
2001         41.26    4.95    0.00    2.22   48.43        39.24    4.12    0.00   43.37       -2.85        -1.46      18.00
2002         41.26    4.92    0.00    2.86   49.04        38.81    4.10    0.00   42.91       -3.28        -1.84      21.00
2003         41.26    4.88    0.00    3.63   49.77        38.53    4.05    0.00   42.58       -3.56        -2.11      24.00
2004         41.26    4.82    0.00    4.44   50.52        38.17    4.00    0.00   42.17       -3.91        -3.47      25.00
2005         41.26    4.76    0.00    5.29   51.31        37.60    3.93    0.00   41.53       -4.49        -4.64      25.00
2006         41.26    4.70    0.00    5.94   51.90        37.27    3.86    0.00   41.14       -4.83        -4.96      25.00
2007         41.26    4.65    0.00    6.52   52.44        37.02    3.79    0.00   40.82       -5.09        -5.22      25.00
2008         41.27    4.60    0.00    7.04   52.90        36.88    3.73    0.00   40.61       -5.26        -5.40      25.00
2009         41.27    4.56    0.00    7.46   53.29        36.82    3.66    0.00   40.49       -5.35        -5.49      25.00
2010         41.27    4.56    0.00    7.78   53.61        37.00    3.66    0.00   40.66       -5.17        -5.35      25.00
2011         41.27    4.56    0.00    7.95   53.78        37.04    3.65    0.00   40.69       -5.14        -5.35      25.00
2012         41.28    4.55    0.00    7.97   53.80        37.04    3.63    0.00   40.68       -5.16        -5.35      25.00
2013         41.28    4.55    0.00    7.83   53.66        37.11    3.61    0.00   40.72       -5.11        -5.33      25.00
2014         41.28    4.54    0.00    7.53   53.36        37.09    3.58    0.00   40.67       -5.16        -5.40      25.00
2015         41.28    4.54    0.00    7.08   52.90        37.03    3.55    0.00   40.58       -5.24        -5.49      25.00
2016         41.28    4.53    0.00    6.45   52.27        36.97    3.52    0.00   40.48       -5.33        -5.43      25.00
2017         41.28    4.53    0.00    6.90   52.71        36.93    3.49    0.00   40.41       -5.39        -5.51      25.00
2018         41.28    4.53    0.00    7.37   53.17        36.82    3.46    0.00   40.29       -5.52        -5.63      25.00
2019         41.28    4.52    0.00    7.84   53.64        36.72    3.44    0.00   40.16       -5.64        -5.77      25.00
VAUE
1996-2020    41.27    4.72    0.00    5.18   51.18        38.01    3.82    0.00   41.83       -4.17        -3.77
JCW & JIM, WCUR   BAWN
04-05-1996



Annex 4
Page 11 of 12
Table 8:  BULGRIA:  Cbmparism  of Base Case with Cptimistic Loan Performance
Revmene iEzeiased 10% over phase-in period of 10 years
Pension benefits decreased 1i over phase-in period of 3 years
Short-tenm benefits decreased 10% over phase-in period of 10 years
Tax rates of 541, 49%, and 391
Mandatory retirement age raised by 3 years\
(in billions of leva)
Anount of Loan:       3.9957 billion levs
Measures of Loan Performunce
Witbout Loan       With Loan             Savings                Internal       Ratio PV      PV of
--------------   --------------   --------------------            Rate of    Tbtal Save       Tbtal
Year    Incone   Outgo   Incane   Outgo   Inoaoe  Outgo  Total    Return (%)   to Loan (M)   Savings
1996     104.2   100.5    104.2   100.5         0.0    0.0    0.0           -100.0            0.0       0.00
1997     132.0   128.0    132.0   128.0         0.0    0.0    0.0           -100.0            0.0       0.00
1998     167.3   162.0    167.3   162.0         0.0    0.0    0.0           -100.0            0.0       0.00
1999     212.9   204.6    212.9   204.6         0.0    0.0    0.0           -100.0            0.0       0.00
2000     271.7   259.6    273.6   258.7         1.9    1.0    2.9             12.8           56.9       0.95
2001     333.6   318.9    337.4   316.6         3.8    2.3    6.1             38.7          153.3       2.55
2002     410.8   392.8    417.8   388.1         6.9    4.7   11.6             54.3          302.1       5.03
2003     506.9   486.0    519.8   479.7        12.8    6.3   19.1             63.7          499.9       8.32
2004     628.3   604.4    651.2   595.9        23.0    8.4   31.4             70.0          761.5      12.67
2005     780.3   750.0    818.7   738.8        38.4   11.2   49.6             74.3         1094.3      18.21
2006     955.0   921.1   1012.7   906.4        57.7   14.7   72.4             77.2         1487.8      24.75
2007    1153.8  1118.3   1236.5  1099.4        82.7   19.0  101.7             79.1         1940.5      32.29
2008    1376.1  1341.7   1488.3  1317.7    112.2   24.0  136.3                80.3         2444.0      40.67
2009    1619.9  1587.6   1763.4  1557.7    143.5   30.0  173.5                81.1         2982.6      49.63
2010    1882.4  1852.9   2049.2  1818.0    166.8   34.9  201.7                81.6         3515.5      58.49
2011    2159.3  2126.9   2350.6  2086.9    191.3   40.0  231.3                81.9         4042.4      67.26
2012    2442.7  2405.2   2659.2  2360.0    216.5   45.1  261.6                82.1         4562.9      75.92
2013    2726.1  2687.2   2967.7  2637.0    241.6   50.2  291.9                82.2         5076.8      84.47
2014    3000.1  2953.5   3266.0  2898.5    265.9   55.1  321.0                82.2         5583.7      92.91
2015    3254.7  3197.3   3543.2  3137.9    288.5   59.4  348.0                82.3         6083.2    101.22
2016    3481.9  3412.5   3790.6  3349.3    308.7   63.2  371.9                82.3         6575.3    109.41
2017    3723.3  3643.4   4053.5  3576.1    330.2   67.3  397.5                82.3         7063.4    117.53
2018    3980.7  3883.2   4333.7  3811.6    353.0   71.6  424.6                82.3         7547.3    125.58
2019    4255.3  4138.7   4632.6  4062.4    377.4   76.2  453.6                82.3         8027.1    133.56
2020    4547.1  4403.5   4950.4  4322.4    403.3   81.1  484.4                82.3         8502.6    141.48
JPW, World Bank
04-05-1996



Annex 4
Page 12 of 12
Table 9: BULGARIA: A_mytiom for A rzuial Model
1         2           3           4           5          6             7             8             9           10             1
Rel Wae        Rea       Nominal                         U1cmploY-                                               Real GDP
Year    Grwth      Wass         Wages    ldatim hita   Rat   mat Rate   Ewptoyiat   Labor Fae               Grwth        Growth   Ngmina GDP
1995    -7.45%      7,442        7,442     50.00%     48.00%      13.U4%       3038.00       3526.16         0.00%        2.00%     838,462.95
1996     1.45%      7,550        9,115     30.00%     31.50%      13.U0%        3039.51       3526.10        0.05%        1.50%    1,106,351.86
1997     1.46%      7,660       12,448     25.00%     26.50%      13.63%        3040.67       3520.54        0.04%        1.50%    1,403,633.93
199S     1.46%      7,772       15,737     25.00%     26.50%      13.46%        3041.39       3515.07        0.04%        1.50%    1,710,923.91
1999     1.55%      7,193       20,040     25.00%     27.00%      13.17%        3055.65       3518.97        0.45%        2.00%    2,270,678.08
2000     2.26%      8,071       25,616     25.00%     21.00%      13.00%        3047.76       3503.03       -0.26%        2.00%    2.395,114.55
2001     2.34%      5,260       31,458     20.00%     23.50%      12.70%        3052.59       3496.69        0.16%        2.50%    3,560,990.89
2002     2.50%      3,466       33,693     20.00%     23.50%      12.53%        3052.64       3489.92        0.00%        2.50%    4,350,018.30
2003     2.97%      8,717       47,509     20.00%     24.00%      12.23%        3053.67       3479.30        0.03%        3.00%    5,413,703.23
2004     3.30%      9,005       59,267     20.00%     24.25%      12.00%        3052.02       3463.15        4.05%        3.25%    6,707,575.31
2005     3.49%      9,320       73,603     20.00%     24.25%      11.t3%        3044.69       3453.07        40.24%       3.25%    3,310,689.52
2006     3.53%      9,649       90,299     15.50%     22.75%      11.65%        3036.17       3436.69        4.25%        3.25%   10,163,232.51
2007     3.61%      9,997      109,460     17.00%     21.25%      11.4S%        3025.36       3417.30        4.36%        3.25%   12,283,479.08
2008     3.72%     10,369      131,131     15.50%     19.75%      11.31%        3011.17       3395.17        4.47%        3.25%   14,641,509.43
2009     3.78%     10,760      155,134     14.00%      18.25%     11.14%        2995.43       3370.33        4.53%        3.25%   17,242,028.03
2010     3.75%     11,164      181,070     12.50%      16.75%     10.97%        AYS0.53       3347.63        4.50%        3.25%   20,027,693.18
2011     3.7S%     11,585      201,575     11.00%     15.25%      10.79%        2964.96       3323.72        4.53%        3.25%   22,953,238.46
2012     3.74%     12,019      236,941      9.50%     13.75%      10.62%        2950.35       3301.01       40.49%        3.25%   25,950,644.49                      4=
2013     3.69%     12,463      265,349      3.00%     12.25%      10.45%        2937.35       3230.11        4.44%        3.25%   21,937,563.67
2014     3.64%     12,917      292,519      6.50%     10.75%      10.28%        2925.87       3261.03        4.39%        3.25%   31,320,106.73
2015     3.59%     13,311      313,577      5.00%      9.25%      10.11%        2915.92       3243.72        4.34%        3.25%   34,496,973.21
2016     3.64%     13,367      341,716      3.50%      7.75%       9.93%        2904.72       3225.08        4.39%        3.25%   36,364,759.21
2017     3.40%     14,339      365,713      3.50%      7.75%       9.76%        2900.27       3214.00        4.15%        3.25%   39,395,064.12
2018     3.45%     14,135      391,589      3.50%      7.75%       9.59%        2894.34       3201.33        4.20%        3.25%   42,099,042.13
2019    49.16%     22,127      604,526      3.50%      7.75%       9.42%        1983.69       2189.92      -45.91%        3.25%   44,91,615.89
2020   -21.00%     15,931      450,4U3      3.50%      7.75%       9.25%        2115.43       3179.37       31.25%        3.25%   41,076,522.01
I Real Wap Growth - (9) - (S)
2 Roal Wa_ - Rel Waos(t1)*(1+ (I)k wap fo 1995 fi  Miniy elLabor
3 N_in l Wapm - NI_aI Was(v1)*(1+(1))*(1+(3)) wap for 1995 fin M_iiduy aLabor
4 hfla ti;  b a WarM BDak mmpti_m  mil 2005, hidflat  - (4) - 0.015 =1 2016, 3.50 t leafiw
5 hiwat  Raw - (3) + (10) mii 2000,  arts rate - (3) + (10) + 0.01 twsa*u
6 Uninuymw Rate - Ut hwloymut rate(t-1) + (114X(9Xt-1) - (9) + (IMOOXI+(9))
7 Eaylaymat - (IX 1-(6)); ayoymo I fto 1995 fim Jun 1995
I La  Farme fivo  actara model; labor force fo 1995 bad an NSI data
9 Er*ymut pawh is ((7)- (7xt-l))Y7)
10 Ral GDP Grwth hiv  World B  k Awmution .il 2005, 3.5% hea*or
11 Nminl GDP - Nom_al GDP(t-IXI+(4)XI+(10))
Not: hpia fian  Wad Bank mod: iftias and Rel GDP powi
liwt fm Acduridl mod: Labor fim
Otvorbomab        dmwod



- 85 -                            Ann  5
Page 1 of 31
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISIRATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
INTRODUCTION
This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) reflects largely the outcomes of the December
1995 and February 1996 missions, and the proposals and technical discussions with the working
groups established under the supervision of the National Social Security Institute (NSSI), as well as
subsequent discussions concerning refinements of the project scope and content." The PIP presents
the general framework for project implementation by the Borrower, and outlines: (a) the project
objectives; (b) project management and implementation responsibilities and activities; (c) project
costs and financing plan; (d) procurement arrangements; and (e) implementation, monitoring and
evaluation processes and procedures. While the implementation of the project is inherently dynamic,
this PIP seeks to clearly outlines the general principles agreed with the NSSI, according to which the
project will be carried out.
" A copy of the Government's detailed Project Proposal is available in the Project files and may be obtained from
EC1/2HR.






-87-                               Anex5
Page 2 of 31
REPUBLIC OF BULGARlA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
Table of Contents
PageNo.
INTRODUCTION . .....................................  85
I.    THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives ...............                                      89
B. Project Description  ...............                                    89
II.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management  .........          ........................   89
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementing Agencies  ....      ....   90
C. Summary of Implementation Responsibilities ..................   90
D. Implementation Arrangements by Component  .....         ............   92
E. Detailed Project Activities by Component ......      ..............   94
F. Project Operational Manual . ............................    98
HII.    PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Costs ...........             ...................    98
B. Project Financing ............................... 101
C. Administration of Project Funds ..........................   102
D. Project Procurement Arrangements  ............ ............  102
E. Disbursements ............................... 108
F. Interagency Coordination  ..............................   109
G. Role of the World Bank in Supervision  .........      ............  109
H. Administrative Arrangements ............................   110
I. Implementation Schedule  ..............................   110
IV.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Development Indicators  ..................   111
B. Indicator Tables  ..................   111



- 88 -                              Annex-S
Page 3 of 31
Table of Contents
(Continued)
page No.
Table  1: Project Cost Summary by Component  .................   99
Table  2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure  ....        .....   99
Table  3: Cost Summary by Component and Financier  ....            .........  101
Table  4: Summary by Expenditure Category and Financier ....          ......  102
Table  5: Procurement Arrangements  ........................   103
Table  6: Summary of the Procurement Packages for Equipment .... ...  105
Table  7: Summary of the Procurement Packages for Technical
Assistance and Training  ..........................  107
Table  8: Disbursements by Year  ..........................   108
Table  9: Input Indicators  ...............................   112
Table 10: Output Indicators  ..............................   114
Table 11: Outcome Indicators  .............................   116
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Cost Tables  .....................   117
Appendix 2: List of Equipment to be Procured  ...................   127
Appendix 3: Implementation Schedule  ........................   131
Appendix 4: Terms of Reference  ............................   139
Appendix 5: System Technical Description   .....................  159
Appendix 6: Procurement Matrix ............................   163
Appendix 7: Implementation ResponsibilitieslResource Requirements  .....  173



- 89 -                           Anex 5
Page 4 of 31
I. THE, PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
1.           The overall goal of the proposed Project is to support and sustain the Government's
social insurance reform program, as described in Chapter 1 of the SAR and outlined in the
Government's Letter of Sectoral Development Policy. Specifically, the Project aims to support the
Government's current reform goals of eliminating the budgetary subsidy for social insurance payments
due through the achievement of fiscal balance in the Social Security Fund (SSF) and laying
groundwork for future reforms aimed at more fundamental restructuring of Bulgaria's system for
guaranteeing income security through social insurance. Therefore, the Project would:
(a)   strengthen efforts to increase the NSSI's overall operational efficiency in today's
emerging market economy, with a focus on reversing the trend towards reduced tax
compliance which is undermining the financial stability of the public PAYG social
insurance program; and
(b)   strengthen the institutional capacity of the newly created NSSI to perform key policy
formulation and evaluation functions and better manage available resources.
B. Proiect Description
2.           The proposed Project has two components: Increasing Compliance and Operational
Efficiency and Strengthening Institutional Capacity, and will be implemented over a period of four
years. Total project costs including contingencies, taxes and duties are estimated at US$32.3 million
equivalent (US$28.6 million base cost). Detailed costs of each component are shown in Appendix 1.
The Project will finance equipment, external and local training and specialist services, civil works for
NSSI office upgrading, and incremental operational costs generated by the investments.
II. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
3.           Overall responsibility for implementation of the Social Insurance Administration
Project rests with the newly establishcd and independent NSSI which until recently was the Social
Insurance Directorate of the Ministry of Labor. Responsibility for day-to-day coordination,
management and monitoring rests with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which has been
established within the NSSI. It is assumed that the PCU will also be responsible for the coordination
of other donor-funded activities in the social security sector. In order to carry out its functions, the



- 90 -                          Annex 5
Page 5 of 31
PCU has been staffed by a Project Coordinator, supported by a core team financed under the Project.
The core team comprises: (i) a project manager; (ii) a procurement officer; (iii) an accountant; and
(iv) an administrative assistant. The Project Coordinator reports directly to the Governor of the
NSSI, and the rest of the PCU staff report directly to the Project Coordinator. The Project
Coordinator is responsible for coordination of project and other donor-related activities within the
NSSI, as well as ensuring coordination between NSSI and the MOLSA. To assist this team, limited
external technical support for the PCU will be provided for under the Project, mainly in the
development and implementation of procurement procedures and organization of training programs,
considering the limited experience of NSSI in these areas.
4.           The heads of the five technical working groups that were established within NSSI to
design project sub-components and the Project Coordinator will form a Project Advisory Group which
will be headed by the NSSI Governor. The members of the group have been appointed by the NSSI
upon recommendation of the Project Coordinator. The number of members of the Group,
units/agencies to be represented in the group, and the frequency of meetings may be revised as
required, on recommendation of the Project Coordinator. The Advisory Group will be responsible
for providing policy advice and guidance during the project implementation period. The Advisory
Group will be assisted by special task forces which it will convene as necessary.
B. Agreemen3s Between Borrower and Implementation Aienctes
5.           The Borrower is the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria represented by its MOF.
The NSSI will be the implementing agency for the Project. Assurances have been obtained from the
NSSI administration that adequate funding, based on the project financing plan, will be made available
in a timely manner and necessary steps will be taken to expedite the procurement procedures related
to major equipment.
C. Summary of Implementation Responsibilities
6.           The Project will be implemented in close coordination and collaboration with the
central and district offices of the NSSI, other donor-funded activities in the social security sector
(e.g., EU/PHARE, USAID), and other ongoing projects in related sectors (e.g., Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 3384-BU).
7.           From the operational point of view, the Project will be implemented by the existing
departments of the NSSI with technical assistance provided, as needed. In each department of the
NSSI. a contact person has been identified to work for the rolject full-time, and report to the Project
Diret. Additional permanent staff will be needed for some of the sections as a result of the project
investments, specifically for the Operations Policy, Systems and Information Technology Department
and the Resource Department.



- 91 -                            Annex 5
Page 6 of 31
8.            Specific responsibilities of implementing agencies and the additional resource
requirements needed to undertake the project-related activities and future investments of the
Government are given in Appendix 7.
9.            The responsibilities regarding general project management are:
(a)    NSSI:
(i)   to establish and secure the functional operation of the PCU and the Project
Advisory Group;
(ii)   to supervise project activities to ensure the successful and timely
implementation of the project;
(iii)  to set the policies, strategies and targets to ensure achievement of project
objectives; to review them as required; and to take necessary steps to secure
the government's political commitment required for implementation of social
security reform activities; and
(iv)    to ensure that financial resources be provided from the Loan and that
Government funds be made available in a timely manner.
(b)    PCU:
(i)   to undertake planning, coordination, management, monitoring and reporting
functions for all activities financed under the Project;
(ii)   to monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process loan
disbursement applications in collaboration with the Central Bank of Republic
of Bulgaria, and track disbursements of the Loan and Government funds; and
maintain project records and accounts;
(iii)  to ensure compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines in the acquisition of
equipment and software packages, administration of suppliers' and technical
assistance contracts; to ensure consolidation of requests and procurement of
goods and services, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines;
(iv)   to ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports
(Progress Report) to the relevant government and other participating
institutions, including the Bank, reflecting: (a) the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current
costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(v)   to ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government
institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditure,
including Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and accounts;



- 92 -                          Annex 5
Page 7 of 31
(vi)  to ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through the usual
approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release;
(vii)  to ensure the most efficient use of project resources; financial, staffing and
time; to develop administrative and operational procedures for this purpose;
(ix)   to ensure coordinaton with other donor-funded activities to ensure that all
externally funded activities support the NSSI's medium-term strategy for
sector reform; and
(x)   to ensure the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
within six months after Project completion.
(c)    Project Advisory Group:
(i)   to set the policies, strategies and targets in order to ensure the achievement of
the project objectives, and review them as required;
(ii)   to provide guidance and advice to the Project Coordinator on the timely
implementation of project activities;
(iii)  to ensure the coordination of public and private agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project; and,
(iv)   to set the principles and procedures to be applied in coordinating with
international institutions.
D. Implementation Arrangements by Component
10.          The paragraphs below discuss implementation arrangements and activities for each of
the two components of the Project. Detailed cost tables and implementation schedules related to the
specific components are found in the Appendices to this Annex.
Component 1: Increasing Compliance and Operational Efficiency
11.          Integrated Social Insurance Administration. This component will be implemented
at the national level by the Information Technology Department of NSSI, in cooperation and
coordination with the other NSSI departments and the PCU. This Department will report directly to
the Governor of NSSI. The Information Technology Department consists of three divisions:
Operations and Information Technology, Automation, and Telecommunications. These divisions will
coordinate closely to ensure that the software programs selected meet the technical needs of benefit
computation and payment processes. The Operations and Information Technology Division,
supported by procurement specialists and qualified technical staff to be hired under the Project, will
be responsible for the development of technical specifications for computer hardware and software in



-93-                              Annex5
Page 8 of 31
accordance with Bank Guidelines, and will support other units of NSSI which will be receiving
computer equipment and software. The Operations and Information Technology Division will be
responsible for providing continuous support to the receiving institutions during the installation and
testing of hardware, loading of software and training of users in coordination with the suppliers. It
will also be responsible for ensuring compatibility of hardware and software for the new systems, and
coordination between suppliers. As described in paras. 2.4-2.8 of the Staff Appraisal Report, the
project will support establishment of an individual central register, and a uniform UNIX-based
information system at regional and central level social insurance offices. The preliminary data
collection activity to ensure that the data base is established before January 1997 began in March
1996, using alternative sources of funds. For both the central registry and the information system,
the Information Technology Department will be responsible for ensuring close coordination across
other NSSI Departments. Small-scale upgrading of regional offices and Headquarters to accommodate
the new technology will be the overall responsibility of the Budgetting and Financial Activities
Department. Close coordination with the Operations and Information Technology Division will also
be essential to ensure that the upgrading of facilities to accommodate the new computers takes into
account hardware and software specifications. The Facilities and Supplies experts of this department
will supervise the work of the engineering consultants, prepare bid packages and bidding documents
for the works, and in collaboration with the PCU, conduct and evaluate bids, award contracts, and
supervise the performance of contractor and supplier contracts. The Information Technology
Department will also be responsible for the organization and carrying out of the training programs for
this component. Support to the training will be provided as needed by the Personnel Management
Division of the Administration and Personnel Management Department.
Component 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity
12.          Policy Planning and Analysis. The new Social Insurance Policy Department will
have overall responsibility for this subcomponent. The department will comprise three divisions:
Statistics and Actuarial Analysis, Policy Analysis and Planning, and Public Relations. Coordination
among all three of these divisions and the PCU will be an essential aspect of project management.
(a)    Actuarial Division. The Social Insurance Policy Department will be responsible for
implementation of project activities relating to actuarial and data base development.
The Statistics and Actuarial Analysis Division will be responsible for coordinating
activities involved in staff selection (four additional staff will be added as a result of
the Project) and the specialized training program to be carried out under the Project.
Support to this training program would be supplied as needed by the Personnel
Management Division of the Administration and Personnel Management Department.
Responsibilities will also include coordination of the technical assistance experts
supporting the development of the actuarial model and data base. In cooperation with
the Information Technology Department, the Division will be responsible for drawing
up technical specifications for additional computer equipment, and selecting
appropriate software programs.
(b)    Policy Evaluation and Analysis Division. The Social Insurance Policy Department
will have overall responsibility for implementation of project activities relating to
establishment and operation of this division. The Policy Analysis and Planning



- 94 -                           Annex S
Page 9 of 31
Division will be responsible for coordinating staff selection and specialized staff
training. Because this is a new unit, seven staff in total would be needed, either
through hiring or transfer. The Personnel Management Division of the
Administration and Personnel Management Department will provide support as needed
for these courses. Responsibilities will also include coordination of the technical
assistance experts supporting the development of a plan for the production of studies
and reports, and establishment of data sources and a training program on the use of
policy analysis in government-sponsored social insurance programs. In cooperation
with the Information Technology Department, the division will be responsible for
drawing up technical specifications for additional computer equipment and selecting
appropriate software programs.
(c)    Public Relations Division. The Social Insurance Policy Department will have overall
responsibility for implementation of project activities related to the establishment and
operation of this division. The Public Relations Division will be responsible for staff
training, and coordination of the work of technical assistance experts supporting
development of a public affairs program. Because this is new unit, six staff in total
will be needed, either through hiring or transfer. The division will also be
responsible, with support from the Information Technology Department for drawing
up technical specifications for additional computer and media equipment and selecting
appropriate software.
13.          Resource Management. The Administration and Personnel Management Department
will have overall responsibility for implementation of this subcomponent. With coordination of the
PCU, the Department will oversee the work of technical assistance experts hired under the Project for
this component, as well as departmental staff training activities. Specific responsibility for training
courses for the NSSI will lie with the Personnel Management Division which will hold management
and staff training courses, as well as providing support to specialized training being carried out in
other divisions within NSSI.
E. Detailed Project Activities by Component
14.          Detailed activities under each component are summarized below. Detailed
information is available in the project proposals prepared by the working groups under the guidance
of NSSI. A detailed project implementation schedule is given in Appendix 3.
(a)   Increasing Compliance and Operational Efriciency
(i)    Automation Management. Overall advisory support to the establishment of
the information system will be provided by two technical assistance experts: a
Social Security Management Specialist, and an Information Technology
Management Specialist with quality assurance expertise. The Bank will
finance a technical assistance contract to cover these specializations.



- 95 -                           Annex 5
Page 10 of 31
Tendering the technical assistance package needs to take place before Loan
Effectiveness date.
(ii)    Organization/Apiplication Software Implementation. Technical assistance for
improving basic functions of the NSSI, e.g., collections, benefits payments,
audit and compliance, and for financial management of the NSSI, will be
financed by the Bank through one major technical assistance procurement
encompassing planning, implementation and training. The timing of the
services will be phased over the first three years of the project, with technical
assistance on key changes in NSSI procedures on collections, payments, audit
and compliance, financial management, and general system design and master
plan, coming first. The financial management software package will be put in
place in year 1, and the customer service package in year 4. Software
development for Central Register, Collections, Payments, Short Term Benefits
and Pensions will be concentrated in year 2. Staff training will be initiated
through training of the trainers in the first half of year one, followed by local
trainers doing broader training of both Headquarters and regional office staff.
(iii)   Computer System Equipment. Establishment of the integrated information
system will involve one large equipment procurement, mostly under ICB
procedures. Bidding documents for this procurement need to be drafted
before the Loan Effectiveness date, with delivery of the first lot of equipment
- central system equipment - scheduled for the second quarter of year 1. The
second lot is scheduled to be delivered at the end of year 2, and will consist of
regional systems equipment. The third lot - year 3 - will be for the 400
auditors' laptop computers. Training of staff in use of the new equipment will
be carried out by a technical expert under the overall equipment contract. The
smaller computer equipment packages, under IS procedures, will be prepared
for bidding, for the most part, around Loan Effectiveness. This would
include computer workstations for senior level managers and the initial 60
auditors' laptops. For reference, a technical description of the information
system can be found in Appendix 5.
(iv)   Voice and Data Communication. Design and installation of the new voice and
data communication system in Headquarters and all regional offices will
involve one large equipment procurement, under ICB procedures. Bidding
documents for this procurement need to be drafted before the Loan
Effectiveness date, with delivery of equipment scheduled beginning in the
third quarter of year one. Technical assistance for design of this activity will
be procured independently through short-listing, around Loan Effectiveness
date. Training of staff in use of the new equipment will be carried out by a
technical expert under the overall equipment contract.
(v)    Security and Access Control. Technical assistance for development of a
security policy and administrative handbook will begin in year 1, with
computer equipment and related accessories and materials for the Central



- 96 -                             Annex 5
Page 11 of 31
Security Unit and Regional Security Units being procured during year 2.
(vi)   NSSI Offices Upgrading. Bid process for basic rehabilitation work to upgrade
regional offices and Headquarters for introduction of the automation and
communications systems will commence around the time of Loan
Effectiveness. The rehabilitation will be the responsibility of the Facilities
and Supplies Division of the NSSI Resources Department, will be carried out
through local competitive bidding procedures, and will most likely involve a
series of small contracts, not expected to exceed US$15,000/regional office
and US$80,000 for Headquarters. Provision of computer workstations and
accessories for the Governor's Office, and the offices of Department Heads,
NSSI Headquarters, will be initiated prior to Loan Effectiveness.
(b)    Strengthening Institutional Capacity
(i)    Actuarial Analysis and Data Base Development. The Statistics and Actuarial
Division will be expanded in scope and resources, and the staff will increase
by four to a total of seven. Technical assistance will be provided initially to
support development of a unified plan with mission statement, position
descriptions, the enumeration of procedures, a comprehensive staff training
plan, and reports and activities that would be undertaken on a regular basis.
Before Loan Effectiveness, office equipment needs will be fully evaluated, and
a two part plan prepared for equipment purchases. The first part of the plan
will support immediate equipment needs, and the second will ensure efficient
interface with the new system developed under Component 1. Staff training
will be initiated around Loan Effectiveness, and will be provided periodically
throughout the project life to ensure that the division can effectively use the
new equipment and software programs.
(ii)    Policy Evaluation and Analysis. Prior to Project Effectiveness, the Policy
Analysis and Planning Division will be fully staffed with seven professionals.
Technical assistance will be provided in the initial stages to support
development of a complete mission statement and position descriptions,
development of program activities, including reports and special studies to be
undertaken on a regular basis, and a comprehensive staff training program.
Before Loan Effectiveness, office equipment needs will be fully evaluated, and
a plan will be prepared for their purchase. Staff training, including study
tours and training for NSSI policy analysts in Bulgaria and abroad, will be
initiated around Loan Effectiveness, and will be provided periodically
throughout the project life. Linkages will be established with local and
foreign universities and research institutes. Data from other Governmental
and nongovernmental sources will be needed as the basis for development of
ongoing and specialized studies. These data sources need to be identified, and
computerized data bases established for the use of the new Policy Office. On-
line services and a library need to be developed to provide sufficient
information resources for the division's staff.



- 97 -                             Annex S
Page 12 of 31
(iii)   Public Affairs. Appointment of six staff to the newly established Public
Relations Division is the first task to be accomplished. It is expected that
requisite staff will be in place prior to Loan Effectiveness, at the latest. The
next priority will be to define the program and activities of the division, and
to get these operational. Provided requisite staff have been appointed, staff
training will be initiated in the third quarter of 1996, consisting of a study
tour for senior staff, a seminar and training in use of media. Following
immediately on the above, training in running of public affairs operations will
take place. All this training should be carried out before Loan Effectiveness.
Shortly after the project start-up, the three public relations campaigns,
focussing on the new agency and legislation, as well as the new automated
workers card - AWACS - will be launched. A long-term study tour (train the
trainers) for the staff will commence in the second year of the project, and
would ideally involve staff who have worked on the design and development
of one of the public relations campaigns. The program of continuing
education will span the last three years of the project, with staff selected on
the basis of defined skills needs.
(iv)   Resource Management. The newly established Administration and Personnel
Management Department, consisting of three divisions - Personnel
Management, Project Management, and Administration - will be staffed and
provided with sufficient office facilities. The first task to be carried out is a
complete inventory of NSSI staff, equipment, and facilities, in order to
provide the basis for effective planning for the Institute. The main focus of
project resources in this subcomponent will be the Personnel Management
Division. Selection process for technical assistance to support development of
the personnel and training functions will be initiated around project start-up.
This technical assistance will support development of capacity in personnel
planning, job definition and grading, personnel selection, evaluation and
promotion, career development, and personnel administration. In addition,
the Personnel Management Division will be responsible for preparation and
carrying out of training programs for the NSSI, and will play a significant
role in management and staff training early in the project, as well as
supporting the Information Technology Department in its task of training staff
in new procedures and information system. The first training courses
supported by this department will involve management training - senior
managers from Headquarters, as well as Regional Directors of NSSI offices.
These courses will be initiated early in the first year of the project, with
annual follow-up courses. In addition, there will be one-day regional staff
meetings in years one and three of the project, to familiarize staff on the
changes in the NSSI policies and programs.



- 98 -                            Annex 5
Page 13 of 31
F. Project Operational Manual
15.          Each implementing technical department/unit will ensure that its respective project
activities are carried out in accordance with agreed project objectives and performance targets. A
Project Operational Manual (POM) is being compiled by the PCU from documents developed during
project preparation and appraisal, using the PIP as the basis. The POM will be subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank. The POM will constitute the implementation guidelines for each
component, and will include detailed TORs for consulting services, base implementation schedules
and procedures, performance targets and monitoring indicators, detailed cost estimates, and technical
background as appropriate. Specific tasks assigned in the POM for which the implementing
departments/units will typically be responsible include:
(a)   in collaboration with the PCU: (i) finalizing TORs for the specialist services,
feasibility studies, and training required in their respective parts of the Project; (ii)
assigning bid evaluation committees; (iii) evaluating proposals received for consulting
services; and (iv) authorizing the award of contracts;
(b)    monitoring the implementation of local training and seminars; and identifying and
tapping local expertise to assist in activities such as preparation of detailed procedures
and updating implementation schedules;
(c)    preparing periodic reports on the implementation progress of their respective
components and submitting these to the PCU for inclusion in the semi-annual report
of project performance; and
(d)    preparing physical and financial forecasts of future activities required to implement the
components of the Project, and forwarding these estimates to the PCU for inclusion in
budgetary proposals for the succeeding implementation year.
MII. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Costs
16.          Summary of Project Costs. The total cost of the Social Insurance Administration
Project is estimated at about US$32.3 million, or about 4.4 billion Bulgaria Leva (BGL) equivalent,
including contingencies, taxes and duties. The total base cost is estimated at US$28.6 million.
Physical contingencies are estimated at US$2.4 million. Price contingencies between negotiations
(June 1996) and the end of the four-year project implementation period will amount to about US$1.4
million, or five percent of base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$22.5
million, including contingencies, or about 70 percent of total cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at
US$2.9 million equivalent. The tax project exempt status of technical assistance expenditure was
confirmed at negotiations.



- 99 -                                               Annex5
Page 14 of 31
17.                  The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical assistance, studies,
computer hardware and software, training materials, refurbishment of facilities, and incremental
recurrent costs generated by the project'. The project costs include about 790 million BGL or
US$5.1 million to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to the Project during the
four-year implementation period. Equipment operation and maintenance, and materials and supplies
account for most of the project's incremental recurrent costs. The estimated project costs by
component and expenditure category are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. Detailed costs are
shown in detail in Appendix 1.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(ava Millioni                                 (USS Millloni
%     % Total                                %      % Total
Foreign    Be                                Forign    Be
Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costa   Local  Foreign   Total  ECa ts
A. Improving Operational Eflclency
1. Integrated Social lnsurance tnfornatin System             581.7    1,27       1,857.6       69       90       8.1     17.7    25.8        69       90
Subtotal Improving Operational Efficency                       581.7    1,275.9    1,857.6        69       90      8.1     17.7    25.8        69       90
B. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. Acuarial Devetopment                                        7.5       44.2       51.7       85        3       0.1      0.6      0.7       85        3
2. PolicyPlanning and Analysi                                  45        13.7       18.2       75         1      0.1      0.2      0.3       75        1
3. Public AffaIms                                             11.0       34.6       45.8       76        2       0.2      0.5      0.6       76        2
4. Resource Marnagemnent                                      26.0       59.8       85.8        70       4       0.4      0.8      1.2       70        4
Subtotal Strengthening Inetttutional Capacity                   49.0      152.3      201.3        76       10      0.7      2.1      2.8        78       10
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            630.7    1,428.2    2,058.9       69      100       8.8     19.8    28.8        so      100
Physical ContIngencles                                        42.7      126.9      169.6       75        8       0.6      1.8      2.4       75        8
Price Contingencies                                          7204     1,490.5    2,210.8       67       107      0.4      0.9      1.4      6a         5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           1,393.8    3,045.6    4,439.4       s9      216       9.8    22.5    32.3         70      113
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(leva Million)                                  (US$ Million)
%      % Total                                 S      % Total
Foreign    Bass                                Foreign    BaS
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs    Lucal  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. CMI Works                                     37.1         5.4       42.5        13         2      0.5      0.1       0.6        13        2
B. Office Equipment and Materials               2006       926.6    1,127.2         82       55       2.8     12.9      15.7        82       55
C Vehicles                                        4.4       20.3        24.6        82        1       0.1      0.3       0.3        82        1
0. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development                           0.3       50.0        50.3        99        2       0.0      0.7      0.7        99         2
2. Capacity Building                              -      216.4       216.4       100       11         -      3.0      3.0       100        11
3 Project Management                              -      127.6       127.8       100        6                1.8       1.8      100         a
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     0.3      394.0       394.3       100       19       0.0      5.5       5.5       100       19
E. Training                                      67.7           -       67.7         -        3       0.9        -      0.9          -        3
F. Fellowships and Study Tours                              69.0        69.0       100        3         -      1.0       1.0       100        3
Total Investment Costs                            310.1     1,4`15.2    1,725.3       82       84       4.3      19.7     24.0        82       84
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff Salaries                     95            -        9.5              -           0.1        -       0.1         -        -
B. Equipment 08  M                              228.0        12.0      240.0         5       12       3.2      0.2       3.3         5       12
C. Vehicle 0M                                     9.4         1.0       10.4        10        1       0.1      0.0       0.1        10        1
D. Other Operating Costs                         737           .        73.7                  4       1.0        -       1.0         -        4
Total Recurrent Costs                             320.6        13.0      333.6         4        16      4.5       0.2      4.6         4       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                               630.7    1,428.2    2,058.9         69      100       8.8     19.8     28.6        69       100
Physical Contingencies                           42.7      126.9       169.6        75        8       0.6      1.8      2.4        75         8
Price Contingencies                             720.4    1,490.5    2,210.8         67      107       0.4      0.9       1.4        68        S
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                1,393.8    3,045.6    4,439.4         69      216       9.8     22.5     32.3         70      113
2' Incremental recurrent costs are due primarily to operational and maintenance costs of comiputer equipment and
vehicles for the social insurance offices.  Incremental staff costs will be minimal.  Averaged over four yanm, the
yearly requirement represents less than one percent of the projected 1996 total Government budget for the scial
insurance sector and is deemed sustainable.



- 100 -                            Annex 
Page 15 of 31
18.           Bases of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. Base and unit cost estimates are derived from: (a) costs of consultant
services, fellowships and training based on the rates currently charged by local,
European and North American consultants and training programs; (b) recent
quotations obtained from suppliers of computer equipment; (c) applications software
costs from comparisons with ongoing software development activities and estimated
requirements for technical books and journals; (d) building and refurbishment costs
from consultants' surveys of the current costs for these items; (e) funds allocated for
the preparation of studies, estimated on the basis of the aggregated costs of local and
foreign specialized services, unit costs for internal travel and subsistence, and mission
estimates of material and logistic needs; (f) staff-unit costs from current public service
salary scales with some adjustments for the remuneration of local technical staff to a
level deemed competitive with the market for specialized services; and (g) non-salary
recurrent costs (materials and supplies) based on current Government rates. All
project costs have been estimated in US dollars on the basis of February 1996 prices
at the official exchange rate of 72 BGL per US dollar.
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical
variations (US$2.4 million) equivalent to 5 percent of the base cost of technical
assistance, training and fellowships and 10 percent for all other project items. The
following rates were used to cover expected price escalation: local costs 40, 40, 40,
30 percent for CY1997-2000; foreign costs 2.4 percent for CY1997-2000. In
estimating the price contingencies, it is assumed that any differentials between
domestic and international inflation rates will be offset by appropriate adjustments in
exchange rates.
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$22.5 million, including contingencies, or 70 percent of total project cost.
Calculations of the foreign exchange component were derived from an item-by-item
analysis resulting in the following: 98 percent for office equipment, computer
hardware and software, books and journals; 30 percent for civil works; 95 percent for
foreign technical assistance; and 100 percent for external training. The foreign
exchange component in incremental recurrent expenditure was estimated at 35 percent
for the operation and maintenance of computer hardware and software; 35 percent for
other equipment maintenance; and 25 percent for supplies and operations.
(d)    Customs. Duties and Taxes. With the exception of technical assistance and training
contracts, works and goods required under the Project will not be exempt from
payment of customs duties and local taxes. The NSSI will ensure that local resources
for the payment of import duties and taxes on goods and works to be purchased under
the Project are available when needed. Project costs include an estimated US$2.9
million equivalent in direct and indirect taxes and duties to be financed by the
Govermnent.



- 101 -                                 Annex 5
Page 16 of 31
19.             Incremental Recurrent Costs. Included in the Project are about US$5.1 million to
cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to the Project during the four-year period.
These consist of incremental operation and maintenance expenditure for equipment, and supplies and
operations. During implementation, NSSI will pay extra attention to monitoring the adequacy of
recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of facilities and newly instituted programs, and take the
necessary actions to rectify any deficiencies.
B. Project Financing
20.             The proposed Bank loan of US$24.3 million will finance 75 percent of total project
costs, comprising 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (US$22.5 million) and 26 percent of the
local cost, excluding taxes (US$1.8 million). Co-financing is being sought to cover technical
assistance and training costs for Component 2 (actuarial development, policy planning, public affairs,
and project management). Possible donors include EU PHARE, USAID, and UK Know-How Fund.
The Government will finance the balance of project costs (US$8.0 million), including duties and
taxes. Incremental operating costs comprising equipment maintenance services and annual
maintenance costs of computers and software (US$5.1 million equivalent), will be financed entirely by
the Government. Averaged over the project life, the Government portion of recurrent expenditures
represents less than one percent of the projected 1996 operating budget for the NSSI. In addition, a
PHRD Grant financed by the Government of Japan, and a portion of the on-going Technical
Assistance Loan (No. 3384-BU) - approximately US$400,000 - are being used to support project
preparation. The NSSI has requested and the Bank has agreed to retroactive financing of up to
US$2.4 million equivalent to facilitate advance purchase of goods, works and services needed for
project start-up activities, available as of July 1, 1996.
21.              Table 3 below shows the summary of costs by component and financier. Table 4
shows the summary of costs by expenditure category and financier.
Table 3: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT AND FINANCIER
(US$ Million)
IBRD     The OoVenWe       TOWal     Po.  fezr.  Ddun &
Anount   %   Amount  %    Arunt   %    Exch  Ta        Tax"
A   nlg Operatioal Efficiency
1. IrUigated 1Soct Insurwnce Infomaln Syuten  21.7  74.1   7.6  25.9   29.3  90.5   202    6.2    2.8
B. StngthenIng InsitutIonal Capacity
1. Actuarlal Development                     0.7  91.6   0.1   8.4    0.8   2.4   0.7   0.1    0.0
2. Po"y PWirk and AnaInIs                    0.2  80.0   0.1   20.0    0.3   0.8   02    0.1    0.0
3. Pubic Affairs                             0.6  83.8   0.1   18.2    0.7   22    0.5   0.1    0.0
4. Reoeurce Management                       1.1  82.5   0.2   17.5    1.3   4.0   0.   0.3    0.1
Subtotal Sbtrgtning lnstIttonal pacty          2.6  84.9   0.5  15.1    3.1   9.5   2.3   0.6    0.1
Toal Dicbursemwr                               24.3  75.2   8.0  24.8   32.3  100.0  22.5   8.9    2.9



- 102 -                                     Annex 5
Page 17 of 31
Table 4: SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND FINANCIER
(US$ Million)
Lacd
IBRD      The Govenunit       Tadla      For.   (da   DWl A
Amount   %    Amnount         Amount   %     ExdL  Tax2 4   Taxes
L kheslntrnl Costs
A. CMl Work                           0.6   84.7    0.1   15.3    0.7    2.1    0.1    0.5         0.1
B.OMcsEqulrwsntmndMabbeIs            15.3   84.7    2.8   15.3   18.0   55.8   14.8    0.5         ZA
C. Vehdm                              0.3   84.7    0.1   15.3    0.4    1.2    0.3    0.0         0.1
0. Technkal Asistance
1. Poky Dew t                       0.8  100.0       -      -     0.8    2.3    o.a    0.0
2. Cpcity BulidIg                   3.3  100.0              -      3.3   10.3    3.3      -
3. Projt Managemt                   2.0  10.0              -      2.0    6.1    2.0      -
SubtotalTchnalAssistance             6.1   100.0      -      -     6.1   18.8    6.1    0.0        -
E. Trslg                              1.0  100.0                    1.0    3.1       -    1.0
F. Feowships and Study Tours          1.0  100.0       -      -     1.0    3.2    1.0               -
Total Invsrunt Code                    24.3   89.3    2.9   10.7   27.2   84.2   22.3    2.0    Z2
IL Recun"t Costs
A. Incremw  Staff Sarle                              0.1  100.0    0.1    0.4        -    0.1
B. Eqjrt O & M                                 -    3.7  100.0    3.7   11.5    02        3.5
C.VehicleO&M                                         0.2  100.0    0.2    0.5    0.0    0.1        0.0
D. OthwOpCllngCods                      -      -    1.1  100.0    1.1    3.5         -    1.1 _
Total RecurrmntCots                      -       -    5.1  100.0    5.1   15.8    0.2    4.9        0.0
24.3   75.2    8.0   24.8   32.3  100.0   22.5    6.          Z0
C. Administration of Project Funds
22.              The Bank Loan of US$24.3 million will be made to the Govermnent of Bulgaria. The
Government will enter into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with the NSSI (signing of the subsidiary
Loan Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness.) On-lending terms to NSSI will be the sarm as
the terms of the Bank's loan to the Government. NSSI will provide counterpart finding of about
US$8.0 million from its own revenues. NSSI will be responsible for servicing the Loan to the
Government.
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
23.              Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5 below. It is envisaged
that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents of January 1995 conforming to the latest issue of the
Procurement Guidelines will be used for the procurement of Bank-financed works, goods and related
services. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was issued after negotiations in July
1996. A project launch workshop is planned for January 1997. Incremental recurrent expenditures,
which are financed entirely with Government counterpart funds, as well as technical assistance and
training financed by other donors are shown under the N.B.F. (Non-Bank Financed) column.
Procurement procedures under the Project are as follows:



- 103 -                                  Annex 5
Page 18 of 31
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS"
(US$ Million)
Non-Bank
Category of Expenditure                  ICB              OTHER            Financed        TOTAL
Civil Works                                -                0.7Y                 -           0.7
(0.6)               -            (0.6)
Technical Assistance                       -                0.8"                 -            0.8
(Policy Development)                                       (0.8)                 -           (0.8)
Technical Assistance                      -                3.32'                -            3.3
(Capacity Building)                                       (3.3)                 -           (3.3)
Technical Assistance                       -                2.09'                -            2.0
(Project Implementation)                                   (2.0)                -            (2.0)
Training, Fellowships and                  --               2.0                  -            2.0
Study Tours                                               (2.0)                -           (2.0)
Equipment and Materials                 12.9                5. 1                 -           18.0
(11.0)             (4.3)                 -          (15.3)
Vehicles                                 0.4                   -               0.0            0.4
(0.3)                  -             (0.0)          (0.3)
Operations & Maintenance                   --                  -               5.1            5.1
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total Financing Requirements            13.3               13.9               5.1           32.3
(11.3)            (13.0)             (0.0)          (24.3)
NOTES: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
b/  Contract awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a wrin
invitation.
c/ Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
d/ Prudent national shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregete-US$600,000) of less than US$50,000 per contrct; L1B for about USS3.5
million for comnputer software applications; and international shopping (aggregate USS1 0 milhion) of les than USS 300,000 p&
contract.
24.             Procurement through ICB. Communications, computer, and other equipment
contracts which are estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent per contract will be procured
following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
'Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995 amended in
January 1996). Computers, other equipment and vehicles procured through ICB will account for
about 72 percent (US$13.3 million) of the total equipment value. In the comparison of bids for
equipment to be procured through ICB, local manufacturers competing under ICB would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to
non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can establish to the satisfaction of the
purchaser and the World Bank that: (i) labor, raw material and components from within Bulgaria will
account for more than 30 percent of the EXW price of the product offered, and (ii) the production
facility in which those goods will be manufactured or assembled has been engaged in the



- 104 -                          Annex 5
Page 19 of 31
manufacturing/assembling of such goods at least since the time of bid submission. A detailed list of
equipment is found in Appendix 2. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods and for
Computers, customized for the Project, will be used for procurement of goods and equipment,
including computer-related items.
25.          Other Forrs of Procurement. The remaining 28 percent of the project requirements
value will be in packages Oisted below) suitable for procurement other than ICB (see Table 6 for
listing of all equipment packages).
(a)   International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for small amounts of
equipment (i.e., a first batch of computer equipment, laptops, audio visuals, and
office equipment) where the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price
advantages. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per
contract, not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent, will be
awarded under international shopping procedures, based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(b)    National Shooing (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 equivalent, could be purchased on the basis
of prudent local shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(c)    Limited International Bidding (LIB). Computer application software which the Bank
agrees are available only from a limited number of suppliers may be procured through
LIB. The estimated cost of such items to be procured through LIB is about US$3.5
million in the aggregate.
(d)    Civil Works. Civil works contracts include the rehabilitation and upgrading of the 28
regional offices and Headquarters building to accommodate the computer equipment
coming in under the Project. Contracts for this rehabilitation are dispersed and of
small value, with contracts for regional offices estimated to range between US$10,000
and US$20,000. Rehabilitation of Headquarters is estimated at US$80,000.
Aggregate for civil works is estimated at about US$0.7 million. It is not feasible to
create large enough packages for these contracts to attract foreign bidders, so these
contracts would be procured using lump sum, fixed price contracts, awarded on the
basis of written quotations obtained from three or more qualified domestic contractors,
and using Bank's sample contract documentation for small works.



- 105 -                             Annex.S
Page 20 of 31
Table : SUMMARY OF THE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR EQUIPJMT
Est. Cost    Proc.       Prepare                    Award       Contct
Packages      (USS Mil.)   Method       Tendering    Invitation    Contract    Conplobion
Headquarters
Office
Establishment
a. Computer               0.2         IS     Oct. 1996                 Jan. 1997     Apr. 1997
Equipment
b. Office                 0.1         IS     Oct. 1996                 Jan. 1997     Apr. 1997
Equipment
c. Customer               0.2         IS      Jan. 1997                Apr. 1997    Dec. 1998
Service Office
Equipment
d. Audio-Visual           0.1         IS     Apr. 1997                 July 1997     Oct. 1997
e. PR Campaign            0.1         NS      Jan. 1997                Apr. 1997     June 1998
Auditors Laptops          0.2         IS      July 1996                Oct. 1996    Nov. 1996
Social Ins. System       10.0       ICB      Jun. 1996    Oct. 1996    Feb. 1997     Jan. 2000
Automation
Communication             2.5       ICB      Aug. 1996   Dec. 1996    Apr. 1997      Apr. 1998
System
Software
Packages:
a. Financial              0.7        LIB      Jan. 1997           -   Feb. 1997      Jun. 1997
Management
System
b. Customer               2.7        LIEB    June 2000            -    July 2000     Dec 2000
Service/
Auditing
c. HR Dev.                0.1        LIB    Mar. 1997             -   Apr. 1997    Aug. 1997
Security and              0.2         IS    Nov. 1996             -   Feb. 1997    Mar. 1997
Access Control
Vehicles                  0.4       ICB      Nov. 1996   Mar. 1997    July 1997    Aug. 1997
Other equipment           0.5        NS      Jan. 1997            -            -    Dec. 1998



- 106 -                           Annex 5
Page 21 of 31
26.           Technical Assistance. Qualified firms will be invited to submit proposals for
comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of fellowships and training in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable, no
more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited following a short listing acceptable to the
Bank. It is estimated that technical assistance will be procured in eleven packages at a total cost of
US$7.9 million.3' Several of these packages will include management of related training. As needed,
the services of individual specialists (mainly for management advice, specialized consulting and
quality assurance) will also be contracted on the basis of short lists of eligible candidates. It is
anticipated that about US$0.3 million of the aggregate for technical assistance would be for individual
specialists, and approximately US$7.6 million would be for firms. Table 7 shows procurement
packages for technical assistance and training.
27.          In compliance with Bank procedures, standard model bidding documents will be used
for all ICB procurement. The Bank will continue to review master lists of equipment, packaging of
bids and updated cost estimates. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more and all LIB contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this prior review will cover about
80 percent of the value of all contracts combined for equipment and technical assistance. The
remaining 20 percent of contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews by the Bank. The
Bank will review: (i) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; and (ii) consulting contracts
above US$100,000 with firms and above US$50,000 with individual consultants. Progress of
procurement activities will be monitored by the implementing agency, and periodic reports on
procurement progress, including variations in schedule, will be reported to the Bank on a regular
basis. A matrix with basic information on responsibilities for key steps in procurement and reporting
during implementation can be found in Appendix 6.
3/ Terms of Reference for major technical assistance packages can be found in Appendix 4.



- 107 -                              AnLex 5
Page 22 of 31
Table 7: SUMMARY OF THE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Est. Cost     Proc.       Prepare                    Award        Contract
Packages       (US$ Mil.)   Method       Tendering     Invitation   Contract    Completion
Automation
Management               1.8         SL      Sept. 1996    Oct. 1996    Jan. 1997    Dec. 2000
Organization/
Application
Software
Implementation:          2.2         SL      Jan. 1997    Feb. 1997    Mar. 1997     Dec. 2000
Voice/Data                0.3          SL     Aug. 1996   Sept. 1996   Nov. 1996    Mar. 1997
Communications
Training                   1.7         SL      Jan. 1997    Feb. 1997    Mar. 1997     Dec. 1997
Actuarial                 0.7          SL     Feb. 1997    Mar. 1997    Apr. 1997      Dec. 1999
Analysis
Policy Analysis           0.2          SL     Feb. 1997   Mar. 1997    Apr. 1997       Dec. 1999
Public Affairs            0.3          SL     Feb. 1997   Mar. 1997    Apr. 1997       Dec. 1999
Human Resource
Management               0.4          SL      Jan. 1997    Feb. 1997    Apr. 1997    Dec. 2000
Assets
Management               0.1        IC",    Jan. 1997    Feb. 1997    Apr. 1997      Dec. 1997
Project                   0.1          IC      July 1996   Sept. 1996    Oct. 1996    Dec. 1998
Management
Advisory
Support
Audit Services            0.1          IC      July 1997    Sept. 1997    Oct. 1997    Dec. 2000
Other Training            0.2        N/A               -            -            -             -
h Individual consultant.



- 108 -                          Annex S
Page 23 of 31
E. Disbursements
28.          The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four and a half
years. Given the fact that this project is one of the first Bank-financed projects in the human resource
sector, the country disbursement profile is speculative. The Project has been designed within the
capacity of the NSSI to execute over a four and a half year period, and loan funds are expected to be
fully disbursed by the end of that period. The project closing date is June 30, 2001. A summary of
the disbursement plan is shown in Table 9.
Table 8: DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
(LJS$ Million)
Calendar Year         19927   1998 1 92   2000   NQU.
Annual                  4.2    7.4    5.3    4.8    2.7
Cumulative              4.2   11.6   16.9   21.7   24.3
Cumulative % Total     17%    48%    69%    89%   100%
29.          The Government will finance expenditures for incremental recurrent costs.
Disbursements against expenditure on all other items will be made at the following rates:
(a)   for civil works, 85 percent of expenditures;
(b)   for equipment and vehicles, 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; and
(c)   for technical assistance, fellowships and study tours, and local training, 100 percent of
expenditures.
30.          All disbursements against contracts for goods and works exceeding US$300,000
equivalent, and services and training exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and
US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants will be fully documented. For expenditures below
those levels, disbursements will be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision
missions, and will be retained by the PIO for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
31.          Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account
denominated in US dollars. The authorized allocation will be US$2.0 million. However, during the
initial stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$0.5 million will be deposited. When the



- 109 -                          Annex S
Page 24 of 31
aggregate amount of disbursement reaches US$5.0 million, the amount deposited in the Special
Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of US$2.0 million.
32.          Project Account and Audits. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the
PCU. The project accounts, including the PCU accounts and the Special Account, would be audited
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by the World Bank' (March 1982). The Borrower will provide the Bank (within six months of the
end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by an Independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on
disbursements against certified statements of expenses (SOEs). The separate opinion should
mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
F. Interagency Coordination
33.          The successful implementation of the Project will depend on good coordination among
several different agencies in the public and the private sector. Component I will require close
cooperation between the selected supplying firm(s) and central and local offices of NSSI.
G. Role of the World Bank In Supervision
34.          The Project will, on average, require about 25 staff-weeks of Bank supervision per
year on average during implementation, as reflected in the proposed supervision plan below:



- 110 -                          Annex 5
Page 25 of 31
Timing       Staff Weeks                          Staffing
CY1997       25 weeks          Bank resources (25 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (7 weeks)
- Social Security Specialist (6 weeks)
- Information Specialist (6 weeks)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY1998       25 weeks          Bank resources (25 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (7 weeks)
- Social Security Specialist (6 weeks)
- Information Specialist (6 weeks)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY1999       25 weeks          Bank resources (25 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (7 weeks)
- Social Security (6 weeks)
- Information Specialist (6 weeks)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY2000       20 weeks          Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (7 weeks)
- Operations Officer (7 weeks)
- Information Specialist (6 weeks)
H. Administrative Arrangements
35.           The Project Coordinator, with support from the Project Manager, will be responsible
for carrying out all necessary administrative arrangements recommended and approved by the Project
Advisory Group. Full-time attention of the relevant senior officers will be required in development
and implementation of the new administrative systems.
I. Implementation Schedule
36.          The Project is expected to be completed within a four year implementation period
beginning January 1997. The Project Completion Date is December 31, 2000. Negotiations were
successfully completed in June 1996. Project preparation activities have been in progress since the
beginning of 1996. The TORs for major technical assistance assignments have been drafted, vehicle
and equipment lists for project institutions have been drawn up, and bidding documents for major
procurement packages are being put together. Appendix 3 includes the detailed schedule of
implementation by activity for each sub-component. The schedule takes into account the work to be
carried out during project preparation and reflects the detailed implementation activities. Based on the



- 111 -                          Annex 5
Page 26 of 31
quality of the work already completed, it is planned that the implementation of project activities will
start prior to Project Effectiveness.
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Development Indicators
37.          Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the impact of the project
inputs on the major development objectives of the project. Given the essential role program
monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact of a given intervention on development
objectives, three sets of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress during
implementation of the Social Insurance Administration Project - input, output and outcome indicators.
Monitoring is a continual process of assessing whether project resources (inputs) are being used
according to plan to carry out project activities (outputs). Monitoring the use of project resources
will be done by tracking input indicators according to component, activity and expenditure category,
as outlined in Table 9 below. Monitoring output indicators under the project involves tracking
implementation of project activities, as outlined in Table 10 below. Updated input and output
indicator information, using the formats provided in the tables below, will be included in the project's
semi-annual Progress Reports, to be prepared by the PCU.
38.          Outcome indicators will track whether or not the development objectives of the
Project have been met. Two criteria were used to select the basic outcome indicators: (a) that the
indicator is known to be sensitive to the intervention introduced under the Project; and (b) that data
will be readily available through routine administrative collection. NSSI will continue tracking of
indicators beyond the life of the Project as one aspect of overall monitoring of the social security
sector. Outcome indicators by subcomponent are outlined in Table 11 below.
B. Indicator Tables
39.          Tables 9, 10 and 11 below provide basic formats for tracking input, output and
outcome indicators, as described in paras. 37 and 38 above.



- 112 -
a_        _                                                                                      .__ _ _ _ _ _ _
A        l       _           _     _           ___                           ___



Annex 5
Page 28 of 31
a-M  Jum imr.        N&M                ju~~m, 199         D).. 199l          ]MI 1999            DsC. 1999           Jue                    2200* M    TOW.I
cmn waft
I.luukk
Chu Wink
3-bh
C. PA&h AN"m
immx"cook
D.   hIsam   osumal
AMi P .
Tak ing
com
L. ?wjd Mum-
E5m-
-db   NWM
Tubf
co
I DA-                            - -   -      -     - =                -                      =         =    -h-           -        _



- 114-
'.4-
0               __________________________________
IrIa. __________________________
I _________________
I
.  I
A
I
I-
w
I
I _________________                                     I
__________________________________________________________  I
I                                                       1
___________________                                   I
A                                                          "U
.1
I                                                       U
___________________                                   I
'II                                                        1
1  i              g                                     I
ii hIll                 IL'                         I'U
-                        ,                     S.



Annex 5
Page 30 of 31
T.bb 10 (odmad
C-v--dFj     - C- |ty        J" 1997|         DDc 1997    |      I 5 1998     | DcI 1996    J 1       1999         D.C. 1999        J|I3 21    0   DCC ;O  TM -a
_                                 I -    |A         E             | F |AI I m    I  II  |                                __  _ I  I         I Eod
_______ __]~~~EW-                   __j__E__ A---I  .-E                         AJ   __  A-i1IE.  I.WE..  A4d JEX.d- A.UW_
m.  P&  &  w
A Tt-d-  lmmm
B.  Staff Tmiini
C.  Nbr of T l  Y
IV. P1 _ d lAM
A.  TObc.wca1   i
S.  StffTu
C.  PR C'IgM                                                                                                                                                                    -
I. Numbr of IV"~                                                                                                                                                           LA
2. Numb of mdio  
3. Laafi.jbooki 6mud
V. b..o Mmmpx
A.T.o.I hali chimfpka
B.  S.ffTmim.u
2. NSSI s..ff
VL.  Praj.0 L4p
A.  Stff Tnink
B.  A."~Rpl



Annex 
Page 31 of 31
Table 11: OUTCOME INDICATORS
Prijet Objective                                   Outcome Indicator                     1997       1998      1999      2000
Improve operational efficiency in social         Number of contributors registered
insurance administration
Number of contributors' returns (declarations) procesed.
Income/cost of collection (per USSI collected)
Number of workers with unique identifier numbers
Number of returns per NSSI employce
Number of contributors per NSSI employee
Number of client visits to office
II.  Strengthen institutional capacity of NSSI to  Actuarial model used by NSSI staff to evaluate fiscal and
perform key policy formulation and evaluation   socio-econornic impact of second phase reforms.                                                                      Os
function and better manage resources
establishment of a system of regular reporting of program
revenue-expenditure status to NSSI Supervisory and
Management Boards
lWidespread public understanding of reform proposals, as
lmeasured by public opinion surveys
Policy analysis used regularly as a management tool
for NSSI staff, establishment of a system of regular
rotations, promotions and training opportunities



Appendix 1
Bulprb                                                            Page 1 of 10
Social lnsuroe Admistion
Table 1.1. Inbgrabd Social Inruranoo Inforation Systen
Debited Coas
(US$ 00)
Quantiies            Unit               Totals Including Contingenckes
UnK    1997  1909  1999 2000 Total  Cost       1997       im        1999       2000      Total
1. Invesonrd Costs
A. Automation Management
1. Technical Advisors
Soclu Seculty Mgt. Speallst                         monxt      10    10   10   10    40        20      216.6      221.8     227.1      M325       898.0
IT/QA Margemnt Specisist ha                         months     10    10   10   10    40        20      216.6      221.8     227.1     232.5       898.0
Subtobl Techical Adviors                                                                                 433.1     443.5      454.2     465.1      1,795.9
B. OrganizadtonApp. Software hupent.
1. Changes In Procedures
CdkcUons and Compliance                             mont        4      -    -    -    4        20       86.6         -          -         -        88.6
Cotbutio  Paymet                                    months      4      -    -    -      4      20       86.6         -          -         -        86.6
Subtotad Changes In Procedures                                                                           173.3         -          -         -       173.3
2. Organition and Woddoad Design                      months     12      -    -    -    12       20      259.9         -          -         -       259.9
3. Gen. Systern DesigvMaster Plan                     monfhs     24      -    -    -    24       20      519.8         -          -         -       519.8
4. Registr System
Softwre Devebpoert /b                               months       -    1 2    -    -    1 2      9          -      119.8         -         -       119.8
Instllon and Data lgration k                        months       -     3    3    -      6       9          -      29.9       30.7         -        60.6
Subtotal Register Systen                                                                                     -      149.7      30.7         -       180.3
6. Contributon and Short-ten Beneftts
Sotware Dmeloperl id                                mont              30    -    -    30        9                299.4          -         -       299.4
Instlinand Data mlgraonle                           monts       -      -   8    -    8          9                            81.8         -        81.8
Subtotal Contributon and Short-tenn Benefits                                                                 -     299.4       81.8         -       381.1
6. Penson System
SofwareDeveopTentr                                   monh        -     5   15    -    20        9          -       49.9     153.3         -       203.2
InslatIon and Data Migration /g                      n           -     -    -   2       2       9          -         -          -      20.9        20.9
Subtota Penion Systm                                                                                         -      49.9      153.3      20.9       224.1
7. Customw Service and AudKtng System
Softwar Pcwkge                                        unt        -     -    -   2       2    1,000         -         -          -    Z820.9    2,820.9
Softwar Custao                                                                                             -         -          -     457.0       457.0
Installaion                                        lumpsum                                                 -         -          -      41.9        41.9
Subtotl Customer Servkc and Audtting System                                                                  -         -          -    3,319.7    3,319.7
3. Finaual Manage_it System
Aoomumg Syaetn                                       pkg.       1      -          -     1     100      131.4                              -       131.4
General Ledger                                       pkg.       I      -    -    -      1     100      131.4         -          -         -       131.4
Payrol                                               pkg.       I      -    -    -      1      50       65.7         -          -         -        85.7
Cusomn                                             hJmpsum                                             233.9      239.5         -         -       473.4
Sublotl Fnancil Managerent System                                                                        562.3      239.5         -         -       801.8



Appendix 1
Page 2 of 10
Quantities           Unit               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999 2000 Total  Cost    1997         1998       1999      2000      Total
9. Training
Develop User Guide and Trainng Material /h         months      18    36   36   18   108        8      155.9     319.3      327.0     167.4      969.7
Printing ani Disribuon Costs                         unit       -  400  400  200 1,000        0.1         -      43.5       44.6      22.8      110.9
Trainingthe Trainers A                              month       1     3    3    1      8       5        5.3       16.3      16.7       5.7       44.1
Subtotal Training                                                                                       161.2     379.2      388.3     196.0     1,124.7
Subtotal OrganizationVA4p. Software knplement                                                            1,676.4   1,117.7     654.0   3,536.6    6,984.7
C. Social Insurance System Automation
1. Central System Equipment
Central Processor Unit and Storage                   unit       2        -       -    2      150      394.1         -          -         -       394.1
DASD and backup subsysterms                          unK        1     -    -    -      1     250      328.4         -          -                328.4
Wosaions 4                                           unit      40     -    -    -   40         3      157.6         -          -         -       157.6
Communiction Une Rack                                unK        I     -    -    -      1      20       26.3         -          -         -        26.3
Priting Substemn                                     unit      2      -    -           2     225      591.1         -          -         -      591.1
Systern Software and Database                        unit       2     -    -    -      2     250      656.8         -          -         -       656.8
Power Supply and Condtioning                         unit       I     -    -    -      1      20       26.3         -         -          -        26.3
Subtotl Central System EquIpment                                                                       2,180.5        -          -         -     2,180.5
2. Central LAN for Software Developrment
Server                                               unit       I     -    -    -      1      70       91.9         -          -         -        91.9
Workstations Ik                                      unit      10         -      -    10       4       52.5         -          -         -        52.5
Sydem Software for Development                       unit       1     -    -    -      1     120      157.6         -          -         -       157.6
Subtotal Central LAN for Software Development                                                           302.1         -          -         -       302.1
3. Regional Systems Equipmnent                                                                                                                             oo
Server i                                             unit       -    14   14    -   28        70               1,318.2   1,349.8         -     2,668.0
Workstatons                                          unit       -  415  415    -   830        2.3         -    1,283.9   1,314.7         -     2,598.6
Printer                                              unit       -  208  207    -   415        1.5         -      419.7     427.7         -       847.4
Laptops for Auditors                                 unit     60      -    - 440   500         3      236.4         -          -    1,861.8    2,098.2
Subtotal Regional Systems Equipment                                                                     236.4   3,021.8   3,092.2    1,861.8     8,212.2
4. Customer Service Office Equipment
Fax machines                                         unit     30    28    -    -   58          1       39.4       37.7         -         -        77.1
Copiers                                              unit      30    28    -    -    58       2.5      98.5       94.2         -         -       192.7
Subtotal Customer Service Offce Equpnment                                                               137.9      131.8         -         -       269.7
5. Technical Training /m                               day    2,000 1,000  500    - 3,500    0.15       318.7      163.2      83.6         -       565.5
Subtotal Social Insurance System Autofation                                                              3,175.7   3,316.9   3,175.8   1,861.8    11,530.1
D. Corrmnunicaton - Voce and Data
1. Design                                            months      9      7    -    -    16       18      175.4      139.7         -         -       315.1
2. Equipment
Network Mgt. Equip. and Software                  lumpsum                                             157.6         -          -         -       157.6
Voice Equipment                                    phoneset   600   400    -    - 1,000       0.5     394.1      269.0         -         -       663.1
Data Equipment                                      rack       15    14    -    -   29        10      197.0      188.3         -         -       385.4
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                      748.7      457.3         -         -     1,208.1
3. Cabing In                                           unK    1,000 1,000    -    - 2,000       0.5     656.8      672.6         -         -     1,329.3
4. TmrVg                                              month       1     1    -    -      2      15       15.9       16.3         -         -        32.3
Subtotal Conununatlon - Voice and Data                                                                  1,596.9    1,285.9        -         -     2,882.8



ADDendix I
Page 3 of 10
Duanttles            UnK                 Totals Including ContingencIes
Unit   1997  1998  1999 2000 Total   Cost       1997       1998       1999      2000       Total
E. Security and Access Control
1. Securty Polcy Development /o                        months      3      -    -    -      3       18       58.5         -          -         -        58.5
2. Security Control UnKs
Central Security Unt /p                               unt         -          -    -      1       20          -      26.9          -         -        26.9
ReglonalSecurilyUnkls/q                               unH         -    28    -    -    28       3.5          -     131.8          -         -       131.8
Subtotal Security Control UnIs                                                                                 -      158.7         -         -       158.7
3. Access Ponts fr                                      unK         -    60    -    -    60       0.5          -      40.4          -          -       40.4
Subtotal Security and Access Control                                                                          58.5     199.1          -         -       257.5
F. NSSI Offices Upgradiig
1. CHi Works /s                                      lumpsum                                               328.3     336.3          -         -       664.6
2. Office EqulinpentlMaterlaIs, HQ
Computer Equjxnert /t                                 unit       9      -    -    -      9        3       35.5         -          -         -        35.5
Prsitera                                              unit       7      -    -    -      7        1        9.2                    -         -         9.2
Oter Office Equipment Ai                            lumpsum                                               14.4         -          -         -        14.4
Technical Lbrary                                    lumpsum                                                3.2       3.2        3.3        3.4       13.1
Subtotal Office Equipment/Materals, HQ                                                                      62.3       3.2        3.3        3.4       72.2
3. 4WDs                                                 unk       10      -    -    -    10        24      315.3         -          -          -      315.3
Subtotal NSSI Offies Upgrading                                                                               705.8     339.6        3.3        3.4    1,052.1
Total Invesenent Cods                                                                                        7.646.4    6,702.6    4,2872    5,866.8    24.503.1
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment O&M
1. System Computer Equpmrent                            sum                                                262.9     540.8      8121      982.3     2,598.2
2 CommuninatIons - Voice and Dat                        sum                                                134.8     244.8      250.6     256.7       886.9
3. Security Control O&M                               lumpsum                                                  -      12.8       13.1      13.5        39.5
4. Headqmterm Ollice Equinent                           sum                                                  5.3       5.7        6.2        6.7       23.9
Subtotal Equipmnt O&M                                                                                        403.0     804.2    1,082.1    1,259.0     3,548.3
B. Commnicaio  LUne Fee                                                                                      265.6     272.1      278.5     285.2      1,101.4
C. Vehicle O&M                                         lumpsum                                                28.7      29.4       30.0      30.8       118.8
rotal RecuremntCosts                                                                                          697.2    1,1057    1,390.7    1,575.0     4,768.6
rotai                                                                                                        8,343.6    7,808.3    5,677.9    7,441.9    29,271.7
a Informon Technology and QuaDty Assance.                                      \l Average price Inluding software.
"3 local consultants and 1 foreign consultnt.                                  \m Assume 60% of training to be deliered by local consultants.
; 3 local consultnts and I foreign consuftant                                  \n Power outlet and data/phone Jclk for each phone set or workSaldon.
J 3 lcal consuHants and I foreign consultant                                   b Develpment of securiY policy and administrative handbook.
4 3 boal consultants and 1 foreign consultnt.                                  \o Worktation and software.
f 3 boal onsults and 1 foreign cornulnt.                                        q for each of reglonal offces4.
g 3 local consultants and I foreign consultant                                 I Two for each reginal ofMice, and four for Headquartrs.
h 2 boal cons. and 1 foreign                                                    s US$15,0000egional office, plus US$80,000 for Headquarter.
Conbact bcal -of .                                                             It For Governor, Chief of Staff (+ 2 secs.), and 5 DeparOmwt Heads. Includes softwre.
ncludes softwe.                                                                u 3 copers and 3 fax maches.
cIncludks prI   (3).



ADppndLx1
S surec                                                                 Page 4 of 10
Soda lr unmneAdWsao
Tabb 2.1. Actuarial An aysiswd Dabese Delopmt
uD ed Cods
(US$ 000)
Quantite               Unit          Totals Incklding ContingercIes
Unit   1997  19    1999  2000  Total   Cost    1997    193    1999    2000    Total
e. .sbA  Cods
A. Achuail Ollbc Edablislort
TA - Office E    dbhine d Procedures /a             month      0.5            -     -   0.5       15      8.1        --               -      8.1
TA-Automelon Pin/b                                  months    0.25      -  0.25     -   0.5       15      4.1        -     4.3        -      8.3
Compu  Equiwet kc                                    unIt        7            -     -     7        3     27.6        -       -        -    27.6
PrItr                                                unI        2      -      -     -     2        1      2.6        -       -        -      2.6
Oher Offie Equxrit /d                             lumpsum                                                 4.6        -       -        -      4.6
Tecl*  Ibriny                                      kmpsaum                                                6.6        -       -        -      6.6
StaffTraf/a                                         week         1     -      I     -     2        5      5.3        -      5.6       -    10.9
Subtotal Actaria OlMe Establishment                                                                        58.9        -      9.8       -    68.7
B. Acuaa Model Deveopment
TA - Mod DevelopmenUTranlng /f                      months       3    0.5   0.5   0.5   4.5       15    48.7       8.3      8.5     8.7    74.3
Staff TraIning                                      week         8            -     -      8      0.2     1.7        -       -        -      1.7
Subtota Actuwi   ode Development                                                                           50.4      8.3      8.5     8.7    76.0
C. Database Development
TA- DtabeaeCoodndnatonlh                            months     0.5      -   0.5     -      1      15      8.1        -      8.5       -    16.6
D. Germwal Actuarhd Training
TA-Tanln gAmnpmensnA                               months    0.75  0.25  0.25  0.25    1.5        18     14.6      5.0     5.1      5.2    29.9               
Study Tour - Foreign Actuar  Offces                   l s                                                25.5                -        -    25.5
Prognrnming Coxn k                                    s                                                   0.4                         -      0.4
Atuarl CoLre A                                        I                                                  17.0        -        -       -    17.0
DwnmogSphc Course n                                   Is                                                  0.4                         -      0.4
ActarWI Econonic Course In                           is                                                  17.0        -                -    17.0
Coriming Educacn Progran lo                           b                                                 106.3   108.8   111.4   114.1   440i6
Continuing Actuari Trankn /p                         Is                                                     -        -    17.8    18.3    36.1
Sbtoal Genera Acwtuiar Training                                                                           181.2   113.8   134.4   137.6   567.0
Total IrnesbTfen Costa                                                                                      298.6   122.1   161.2   146.3   728.3
L Recurrent Costs
A. Incrmntal Staff Salaies
1.Re*seehwidAcIwhlOmkce/q                           month       48    48    48    48   192       0.25    12.1    12.4    12.7    13.0    50.4
B. Equdmnt O&M                                          Is                                                  22       2.3      2.3     2.4      9.3
Total Racurrent Cods                                                                                          14.4    14.7    15.1    15.4    59.6
Total                                                                                                       313.0   136.8   176.3   161.7   787.9
Ib To support develpmet of mssion, office functions, reporting, etc.                ' 10 day study tour for 3 people - foreign actuarial offices.
tb Develop ofie automatIon plan and ensure training and coordination with Comp. 1.  W Two week progamming coure for two people.
tc Computera/solware; purner, fax machine; copy machine                            \I Two week actuarial course for two people In Europe or U.S.
W 1 copler and I fax machine.                                                      V\ Two week demographic course for two people.
be Two weeks training - 7 people. Foremgrlocal cons. invoved.                      \h Two week actuarial economic course for two people In Europe or U.S.
VI 2 weeks In Sophia, 2 weeks home country (1996/67; 2 weeks In Sophia In last 3 project yrs.  \o one semester courses for 3 people annually - locally or abroad.
b One week for 7 people to trand  n new procedures.                                 \p Training funds for new hires In actuarial, demographic and atuarial eonormics areas.
th Ensure that required databases are in place and available from Comp. 1.          \, 2 additional staff with math. or actuarial training. 2 staff detailed for modelling on
1 Arrange training and study tous for staff.                                           periodic basis transferred to offices. Total = 7.



Buh                                                                 Appendix I
Socia Inuac Administratio                                                     PageS5 of 10
Table 2.2 Policy Evaluation and Arnlysis
Detailed Cods
(US WO0)
Quantites              Unit          Totals Including Contingencies
UnIt    1997  1998  1999  2000  Total   Cost    1997    1998    1999    2000    TOal
1. Investment Cos
A. Polky Evaluation and Analyis
1. Polcy Analysis Office Establislunent
TA - Offke Esdablishment and Procedures /a            moffts    1.25      -      -      -  1.25       15     20.3                -        -    20.3
AutomatIn Plan/b                                      months    0.25      -  0.25       -   0.5       15     4.1        -      4.3        -      8.3
Computer Equipment /c                                   unit       7      -      -      -     7       3      27.6       -        -        -    27.6
Printers                                                unit       2      -      -     -      2      2.5     6.6        -        -        -     6.6
Oter Office Equipment /d                             lumpsum                                                  4.6       -        -        -     4.6
StaffTraining/e                                        week        1      -      1     -      2       5      5.3        -      5.6        -    10.9
Subtotal Policy Analysis Office Establishment                                                                  68.4       -      9.8        -    78.3
2. Da #ta   Devekdped
TA- Dalabe CompatbilityM                              months    0.25      -  0.25      -   0.5        15     4.1        -      4.3        -     8.3
3. Polcy Analysis Training
TA - PolcyAnalyss Tralning /g                         months      0.5  0.25   0.25  0.25   1.25       15     8.1      4.2      4.3      4.4    20.9
Pokcy Trknng Study Tour /h                              no.        1      -      -     -      1      56     59.5        -        -        -    59.5
Programming Course A                                    no.        1      -      -     -      1      0.2     0.2        -        -        -     0.2
Poliy Ofice/Research Study Tour                         I I                                                 25.5        -        -       -    25.5
Subtotal Polcy Analysis Training                                                                               93.3     4.2      4.3      4.4   106.1
4. Polcy Lbray                                          lumpsum                                                 6.6       -        -        -     6.6
6. Annual Survey
SurveyExpqet-ExtenalTA                                monfts       1      -      -     -      1      15      16.2       -        -        -    16.2
Survey Eet - Local TA                                 months       2      2      2     2      8      0.7      1.5     1.6      1.6      1.6     6.3
Materals                                             lumpsum                                                  1.3     1.3      1.4      1.4     5.4
Subtotal Annual Survey                                                                                         19.1     2.9      3.0      3.0    28.0
Total Invesnernt Costs                                                                                            191.5     7.1    21.3       7.4   227.2
L. Recurent Costs
A. Incrmn  Staff Salries
1.PokyAnalysisOffloe /k                                  month      36    36    36    36   144        0.25     9.1      9.3      9.5      9.8    37.8
B. Equpment O&M                                             is                                                    2.2     2.3      2.3      2.4     9.3
Total Recurent Costs                                                                                               11.3    11.6    11.9_ 12.2    47.0
Total                                                                                                             202.8    18.7    33.2    19.6   274.2
b Develop mission, offce functions, staffing, and reporting procedures.
b Office automnion plan and raing pln.
b Compter q.
W Coper and fax machne.
b Two weeh for 7 people. foreign and local consultants.
V Ensv" database avallabity and competlky.
bg Arrange for traIning and study tous - abroad and ocafly.
I1 I0 day Studytour for 7 people to vst foren poicy offices.
1 2 weke programming course for I person.
N One month kll tkoums - 3 persons to govL policy offkce,olicy research institutes.
Wc 3m snaff for Policy Analysis office.



Appendix 1
Page 6 of 10
Bulgaria
Social Insurance Administration
Table 2.3. Public Affairs
Detail Costs
(US$ -000)
Quantities           Unit         Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
I. Investnent Costs
A. Office Establishment
1. Computer Equipment /a                             unit       7      -     -      -     7     3     27.6        -       -        -    27.6
2. Printers                                          unit       2      -      -     -     2   2.5      6.6        -       -        -     6.6
3. Otler Office Equipment /b                      lumpsum                                              6.6        -       -        -     6.6
4. Audio-vIsual equipment, archive                lumpsum                                             65.7        -                     65.7
5. Technical Library                                 unit                                              6.6        -       -       -      6.6
Subtotal Office Establishrent                                                                           113.0       -       -        -   113.0
B. Office Establishment and Procedures
Office Procedures - TA                              months       I     -      -           1    15    16.2         -       -        -    16.2
OfflceAutomatkon-TA/c                               months     0.5          0.5           1    15      8.1        -     8.5             16.6
Automation Training /d                               week        I     -     1      -     2      5      5.3       -     5.6        -     10.9
Subtotal Office Establishrment and Procedures                                                           29.7        -    14.1             43.8
C. Staff Training
Training Arrangements - TA                          months       1  0.25  0.25  0.25   1.75    15    16.2       4.2     4.3      4.4    29.0
Study Tour /e                                        Is                                               21.3        -       -        -    21.3
Public Affairs Seminar n                              Is                                              372         -                     37.2
MediTraining /g                                      Is                                               10.6        -       -        -    10.6
Nll Offioe Operations /h                             Is                                               10.8            -            -    10.8
Long-term Study Tour A                                Is                                                 -    97.9        -             97.9
Cortinuing Education ,                                Is                                                 -    27.2    27.9    28.5    83.6
Subtotl Staff Training                                                                                  96.1   129.3    32.1    32.9   290.4
D. PR Campaigns
1. New Agency/legislation
TV Time nc                                      lumpsum                                              35.5       -       -        -    35.5
VIdeo A                                          lumpsum                                             19.7       -       -        -    19.7
Graphics                                        lumpsum                                              0.7        -       -        -      0.7
Informatlon M'ls /m                             lumpsum                                             26.3                         -    26.3
Leaftts                                         lumpsum                                               4.6       -       -        -      4.6
Internet Page                                    lumpsum                                              0.5                               0.5
Radio Time /n                                   lumpsum                                              13.4       -       -        -     13.4
Subtotal New Agency/Legislation                                                                       100.6                        -   100.6



Appendix 1
Page 7 of 10
Quanttes              Unit          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
2. Contibutons Compliance
TV Time                                           klmpwum                                                35.5                         -    35.5
Radio Tine                                         lumpsum                                               13.1       -        -        -    13.1
Poerms, leafles, etc.                              Iumpsum                                               5.3                          -      5.3
Subtotal Contribi    Compnlance                                                                            53.9       -        -        -    53.9
3. AWACS Introducon
TV and Radio Time                                  lumpsum                                              26.3        -        -        -    26.3
Subtotal PR Cuipalgns                                                                                       180.7       -        -        -   180.7
Totil irvtm_ent Costs                                                                                         419.5   129.3    46.2    32.9   627.8
II. Recurrend Costs
A. Incrementl Sabris                                     mo.        24    24    24    24    96   0.25         6.1      6.2     6.4      6.5    25.2
B. Equipment O8M                                        swm                                                  10.3    10.5    10.8    11.0    42.6
Total  _ t Costs                                                                                               16.4    16.8    17.2    17.6    67.8
Tobl                                                                                                          435.8   146.0    63.4    50.4   695.6
la Includes software.
\b Copier, Fax machine, ups.
*c Develop office automaton plan and ensure that training and coordnation with Comp. I Is In place.
Id Automation training for staff. loal and foreign consultants.
le Provide understanding of public affairs fteory office functions and operations; and methodshechniques.
\f One-week seminar, Including reps from 28 regional offices. Practical methods/techniques; and public relations plan analysis.
b Training for 5 public affairsstaff and NSSI Govemor and Dep. Governor. Utilization of electronic media and media intervews.
\h To support development of office organizatlon and operations.
AJ Train the trainers. Study tour for 7 staff.
4 Advanced training for public affairs staff.
k 6 psa; 15-20 seconds each.
\i O minute duration.
\m for cilerts.
~n sbc



Apendix I
Page 8 of 10
Bugaria
Social Insurance Administion
Table 2.4. Resource Management
Detailed Costs
(USS ')
Quantities           Unit         Totals Inciuding Contingendes
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Human Resource Management
1. Office Equipmnt
Headquarters Worksbtions                         unit       13     -      -     -    13   2.3    39.3        -        -       -    39.3
Printers                                         unK         3     -      -     -    3   2.5       9.9       -        -       -      9.9
Oter Office Equipment /a                         unit                                              7.9       -        -       -      7.9
Audio Visual Equipment                        lumpsum                                             65.7       -        -       -    65.7
Technical Ubrary                                 unK                                               6.6       -        -       -      6.6
HRM Software Package                             unit        1     -      -     -     1    50    65.7        -        -       -    65.7
Softmare Customiztion                          lumpsum                                             7.9       -        -       -      7.9
Subtotal Office Equiprnent                                                                         202.8       -        -       -   202.8
2. Technical Assistance
Design of Career Development Program           months        -    2                   2    15        -    33.3        -       -    33.3
Job Descuipons - Ext. TA                        months       2     -                  2    15    32.5        -        -       -    32.5
Job Descaptions - Local TA                      months       4     -      -     -    4   0.7       3.0       -        -       -      3.0
Sidlls Needs and Stafting Study                 months       2     -                  2    15    32.5        -        -       -    32.5
Saiay Scale DefinKion - Ext. TA                months        2     -      -     -    2    15    32.5         -        -       -    32.5
Sahry Scaie Definition - LocalTA                months       2     -      -     -    2   0.7       1.5       -        -       -      1.5
Record Keeping                                 months        2     -      -     -    2    15    32.5         -        -       -    32.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                      134.5    33.3        -       -   167.8
3. Training
Senior Managers, Headquarters /b                 Is                                                6.2     6.3      6.5     6.6    25.6
Regionl Directors/c                             week         2     2     2      2     8  5.18     11.0    11.3    11.5    11.8    45.6
Supervisors.Headquarters/d                      3days        I     -     1      -    2  4.98       5.3       -      5.5       -    10.8
Supevlsor Training, Regions /e                  3 days       6     -      -           6  4.98    31.7        -        -       -    31.7
RegionalStaffMeetinglf                           Iday        1     -     1      -    2   8.4       8.9       -      9.4       -    18.3
NISI Management Study Tours /g                   Is                                               59.5       -        -       -    59.5
HRM Workshops h                                workshop      2     2     2      2     8   2.6      5.5      5.7     5.8     5.9    22.9
HRMStaffStudyTourA                              week         4     -    4       -    8      4     17.0       -    17.8        -    34.8
Staff Training Aj                                Is                                                1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1      4.4
Subtotal Training                                                                                  146.2    24.3    57.6    25.5   253.7
4. Support to NSSI Training Programs
Minibus                                          unit        1      -     -     -     1    30    39.4         -       -       -    39.4
Subtotal Hunan Resource Management                                                                   522.9    57.6    57.6    25.5   663.7



Appendix I
Page 9 of 10
Quantities            Unit          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  Cost   1997    1998          1999    200       Total
B. Asses Mamwnt
1. TA - New Bldins Inverory/Staegy                   months        2      -      -     -      2    15      32.5        -        -              32.5
Total h   _vesmnt Costs                                                                                       555.4    57.6    57.6    25.5   696.2
IL RecuInTw Cods
A. Vehicle O&M                                         kmnpsum                                                3.6      3.7      3.8      3.8    14.9
B. Equnut O&M                                            -um                                                 17.7    18.1      18.5    19.0    73.3
C. MIbreH and Spplies                                 kxq2um                                                  3.2      3.3      3.3      3.4    13.2
Totd Recurrad Coats                                                                                            24.5    25.1      25.6    26.3   101.4
Tota                                                                                                          579.9    82.7    83.3    51.8   797.6
* 2 copIes, 1 fx mach.
\b 20 peopW5 drs. acom. $2.000. TramF  $3750. Marer  $50.
\c 14 psopisdhieW  2 wedlyr. macam. $1382.t bter $3750. $50 materlbs.
d maocn. $1184. tWnr $2250. m.lm $50.
b smccm. $1184. bainor $S0. MiMatarls $50.
V $300 x 28.
Ig Stdy tow for 7 people -10 dry. UC=$8,000.
%h EqApin nw systern for HRM. 20 saffM.eva   Cost o I week-long workshop - BGL 150,000. Materials - US$500.
1 4 people for 1 week study toit. 1997 and repeat In 1999. UC = $4,OWwelpensor. Head of HRM Dept and key staff In training coord., career dev. and recruibnent /placement.
1 To irse the quity of pxMc sence to cents.



ADDSdix 1
Page 10 of 10
Bulgaria
Socil Insuance Administration
Table 2.5. Prefect Management
Detailed Cods
(US$ 000)
Quantiies             Unit         Totals Including Contingendes
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Ofce Establlshnent
1. Compulter equipment /a                    Is                                               36.8       -        -       -    36.8
2. Photocopier and Fax Machine               unK       I      -      -     -     1      7      9.2       -        -       -      9.2
3. Office FumKure /b                         Is                                                5.3     4.0      4.1      4.2    17.7
4. Vehicle                                   unI       I      -      -     -     1    20      26.3       -        -       -    26.3
Subotal Offe EstablIshment                                                                      77.5     4.0      4.1      4.2    89.9
B. Mangmnt Advlsce Support                      Is                                              54.1    55.4        -       -   109.8
C. Audt Servies /c                           months      1      1     1      1     4    18      I9.5    20.0    20.4    20.9    80.8
D. PCU Staff TrainIng /d,                       Is                                              53.1    54.4    22.3    22.8   152.6
Totdal Investm   Costs                                                                           204.3   133.8    46.9    48.0   432.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incr Ient Salaries                          rno.     12    12    12    12    48   0.5         6.1      6.2     6.4      6.5    252
B. Equipment O&M                                Is                                               7.0      7.2     7.4      7.5    29.1
C. Vehicle O&M                                  Is                                               2.1      2.2     2.2      2.3     8.8
D. Tmrnsaiton, Materials and Supples            Is                                               3.2      3.3     3.3      3.4    13.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                             18.4    18.9    19.3    19.8    76.3
Total                                                                                                  222.7   152.7    662       67.7   509.3
b 6 desktops, I lap top computer, 2 aser prInters, 2 backup power supplies.
t 6 desks and chairs, conference table, safe, filing cabinets, office materials,etc.
c Annual project audK, as required by the Bank.
id Study bous for PCU staff.



- 127 -                           ADendixc 2
Page 1 of 4
LLST OF EQUlPME  TO BE PROCURED
Central System
Central Processing Unit and Storage  2 central computer systems; 256 MB RAM; 2 Cards X.25 for
WAN connection 64 Kbps; 4 Units cartridge Dat 8 GB; power
SPEC-INT92 k 135; TPC-C k 400
Disk Sub-System                   RAID 100 GB (formatted) shared by two machines
2 Spare feeders for Disk Array; 1 Additional Module for each
Disk Array, including a second storage processor and 32 MB
cache
Management software for Disk Array capacity
Printing Sub-System               High capacity laser printing subsystem: 200 ppm; on-line and
off-line printing
Operating System                  UNIX XPG4 compatible
Transmission Protocol             TCP/IP
Development Environment           C language; Rapid development environment
RDBMS                             Oracle/Informix



APeg. 2 o 
R         Directore Soda ktrnue - Propodt             1 baloca_l s__t__
Current
number of    Number of
Number of                            Numbr of   Number of strff Pension  employee
Curnnt   Number of PCs thet   Number of  Proposed          PCs neded   PCs thet   production    proposed for each                            Costs In    CosIn    CostshI    LAN
Regional       number of PCs         can be re- servers      number of   for Initial     will be    services &     Regional          Current %   Proposed % USST for   USST for   USST for   Cabling
N.   DIrectoqute     PCs       required    used  )I note 5g       PCs            collection   purchased  payment         Dlrectorae        PCS I staff  PC I stsff  Servers (q) PCs       Printers
1Blgoeygrad             15         26                       2            24            2          26             48                48      0.3125         0.5          70        59.5        19.5         14
28urgas           _      26         39                       2            41             4         45             65                82                                  90       103.5       33.75        22.5
3 Vama                   29         41                       2            30             3         33             68                60                                  70        75.9       24.75         17
4 VeliKo Tumovo          19          27                      2            38             3         41             56                 76                                 90        94.3       30.75         21
S Vdin                   23          17                      2            15             1          16            35                 29                                 60        36.8          12         9.5
6 Vratza                 14          28                      2            27             2         29             56                53                                  70        66.7       21.75        15.5
7 Gabrnvo                12          17                      2            17             1          18            35                 33                                 60        41.4        13.5        10.5
8Dobuicfh                17 _     _21                        2            17 _      __1             18 _     __38  __ _ _34 ___                                         60        41.4        13.5        10.5,
9 KurdzaUl               16          16                      2            15             1          16            40                  30                                60        36.8          12         9.5
10 Kustendil               8          15                      2            15             1          16            35                30                                  60        36.           12         9.5
11 Lovetch                13         23                       2            19             1         20             40                38                                  70          46          15        11.5
12 Montana                 9          18                _                  17             1          18            48                34                                  60        41.4        13.5        10.5
13 Pazardzik             18          25                       2            26             2         26             49                52                                  70        644 .421                  15
14 Pemnik                 13         16                       2            15             1          16            37                29                                  60        36.8          12         9.5
15 Pleven                 19         32                       2            31             3         34             69                62                                  70        78.2        25.5        17.5
16 Lovdiv                  8         72                       2            69             6         75            131                138                                 90       1725        56.25        36.5 1
17 Razgrad         _ _23             15                       2            14 _      __1 _        _15  __       _33 __ _ _28                                     _ _60             34.5       11.25  __ _9
1E Ruse                  36          26                       2            30             3         33             57                60                          _ _70             759        24.75          17
19Si1istra                20         14                       2            14             1          15            31                28                                   60       34.5       11.25           9
20t iven                  17          18                      2            19             1          20            35                 37                                 70          46          15        11.5
21 Smdyan                  7          11                      2            11             1          121           25                 22                                 60        27.6          S9         7.5
22 Sofia-twn              59         131                      2           122            12         134           214                244                                130       308.2       100.5          63
23 Soia-Rigion             0          24                      2            29             2          31            54                 57                                 70        71.3       23.25        16.5
24 Star Zagova            24          37                      2            40             4          44            78                 80                                 90       101.2          33          22
25 Turgovizte             12          13                      2            13             1          14            32                 25                                 60        32.2        10.5         8.5
26 Hasko                  34          25                      2            24             2          26            52                 48 _                               70        59.8        19.5          14
27 Shumen                 16          15                      2            16             1          17            41                 32                                 60        39.1       12.75          10
28 Yambod                 14          16 _                    2            15             1          16            34                 30                                 60        36.8          12         9.5
TOTALS                     521         778                     56            763           63         826           1536              1519                                1970      1899.8       619.5       437.5
_________    =_____        =        ______  ________                                 TOTAL Costs for RDSt LAN *            =                       4926T.8 
NOTE:
- Nwnber of PCs propose is dunensoned for normal operdtion of System at regime.
We hw onoposed I PC evey 2 slaf and I printer every 2 PC
t-  the fwit time woud be thWt t needs an added number of to face the initial data collection.
 number of server deding on LAN ocaton and size. They are fomeseen UNIX Server.
1   onTmation not available  i          I          II                                                                  _                                                                             _I
- Ioforation not available K present cabling can to be used. Cabling Is Included in Communication voice and data equipment  _



Apoendix 2
Page 3 of 4
General Directorate Social Insurance             ____
Central System
UnKt price In Total cost In
Description                   Quantity      T/$         T/S
Central Processing Unit and Storage                  2          65         130
Disk Subsystem: 100 GB with 64 MB cache              1         200         200
Printing subsystem                                   2         375         750
System software and Data Base                        2         200         400
Workstations (include System sorWare and Printers)   40         3          120
Communication line rack                              1          20          20
Power supply and Conditioning                        1                      0
Pilot LAN:                                                                  0
Server                                               1          70          70
Workstation (include System sorfware and Printers)   10         4           40
System software for development)                     1          20          20
Subtotal Costs for Central System In TS_                                   1750
Regional Systems                                 _
Server                                               56         35         1960
Workstation (include System sorfvare and Printers)  826        2.3        1899.8
Printers                                            415        1.5        622.5
Laptops for Auditors (include System sorfware)      500         3          1500
Subtotal Costs for Regional System In T/S                                 5982.3
Customer Service Office
Fax Machines                                         58         1           58
Copiers                                              58        2.5         145
Subtotal Costs for CSO In T/S                                              203
Communication data and voice
Voice equipment: phoneset                           1000       0.5         500
Data equipment: rack                                 28         10         280
Cabling                                             2000       0.5         1000
Subtotal Costs for CSO In T/$                                              1780
TOTAL Costs for Equipment In TI_                                          9715.3



AoDeOK 2
Pagp 4 o4
Relona Directorate Social nsuramne - Proposed Strcture for Operational Staff   _                     _
Current
number of                            of which   of which
staff Penion Proposed                "back      back
productlon   number of staff of which   office"    office" for Delta    Number of  Number of   Number of
Regional        services a   for Operational "front  normal    data       number  pensiorer I employers /  mployees I
N.   Directorate     payment    Structure       office"    activity   collation  of staff  1000     1000         1000
1Bagoevgrad               48            48         21         5         22        0         84            9           88
2urgas                     65            82         29         8         45      -17         116          16          179
3 Vama                     68            60         30         4         26        8         119           8           102
4 VeliKo Tumovo            56            76         24         9         43      -20          97          17          171
5 Vidin                    35            29         14         4         11        6          55           7           45
6 Vratza                   56            53         22         6         25        3          87          11           99
7 Gabrovo                  35            33         13         4         16        2          51           7           63
8Dobrich                   38            34         15          5        14        4          59           9            57
gKurdzali                  40            30         12         3         15       10          46           6           60
1 aKustendil                35            30         15         2         13        5          59           4           51
11 Lovetch                  40            38         16         5         17        2          62          10           69
12 Montana                  48            34         18         3         13       14          72           5           50
13 Pazardzik                49            52         22         4         26       -3          86           8           102
14 Pemik                    37            29         14         3         12        8          54           6           48
15 Pleven                   69            62         28         5         29        7         110          10           116
16 Lovdiv                  131           138         53        15         70       -7         211          30          278                  0
17 Razgrad                  33            28         12         3         13        5          46           5             51
18 Ruse                     57            60         21         5         34       -3          82          10           137
19 Silistra                 31            28         11         3         14        3          42           6           57
20 Sliven                   35             37        16          3        18       -2          62           6            72
21 Smolyan                  25             22        10          2        10        3          38           4            38
22 Sofia-town              214           244         79        33        132      -30         316          66           526
23 Sofia-Rigion             54             57        22          4        31       -3          88           7           124
24 Stara Zagova             78             80        30          7        43       -2         120          13           173
25 Turgovizte               32             25        11          3        11        7          42           5            42
26 Haskovo                  52             48        21          4        23        4          84           8            90
27lShumen                   41             32        15          3        14        9          59           6            54
28 Yambol                   34            30         14         4         12        4          55           7            46
TOTALSC()                    1536          1519        608       159        752       17        2402         306         2989
NOTE:                            I                                                                   _ 
- Number staff proposed is for normal operation of System at regime.                  _                       _
- At the first time it needs a 'task force" staff to face the initial data collection
and the ow product  of emplye  in training.   I
This task force will be about 5% more than proposed staff
I o  l              i d                                                          __
Totals could not corres,oondinig due to rounded values + 



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                       Appendix
Page 1 of 8
.  1996     1        1997         1        1998        1        1999                  2000                 2001
TaskName                                   r2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Otr 1 Qtr2Otr 3 Qtrt4 Qtr  Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtrt4 1tr  Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1tr2 |Qtr3 Qtr4
i. SOCIAL INSURANCE INFO. SYSTEM
PRELIMINARY DATA COLLECTION
TA
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
PREPARE TECH. SPECS
OBTAIN NO OBJECTION               3
OBTAIN QUOTATIONS          
EVALUATE AND SELECTi 
TRAINING                                i
AUTOblATION MANAGEMENT._
'V 
TA Selection i
TA - Autornation Management             |_-j{yX,;>,n;i-JsI8 !LAj     t,t                                                            i  
ORGANIZJAPP.SOFTWARE                       I
TA Seledion/Contrad Award
TA - Changes in Procedures
TA - Organz/Workload Design             I
TA - System DesignrMaster Plan
TA - Register System
TA - Contribution/STB
TA - Pension System                                                                _ _
TA - Customer Serv./Audit System
TA - Financial Mgt. System                          _
Training                                                                           |___



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                Appendix 3
Page 2 of 8
1996                   1997                   1998          [         1999                   2000                   2001
Task Name                                   Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Otr1 Qtr2 Qtr3|Qtr4 Otr1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl IQtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr1 Qtr2 Otr3 Qtr4 Qtri IQtr2 Qtr3  Qtr4
SOC. INS. SYSTEM AUTOMATION                                                                               _
Prepare Tech. Specs
Obtain No Objection
Artvertise                                    t                      
Obtain bids                                                                 :                                                                     :
Estabish Evaluation Committee
Technical Evaluation
Obtain No Objection for Contract
Award Contract                             I
Delivery                                             .I
First Lot
Second Lot                                      t.)
Third Lot
VOICE/DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEM                         I
Prepare Tech. Specs
Obtain No Objedion
Advertise                                         i                         
Obtain Bids
Seled Evaluation Committee.                                                  
Technical Evaluation
No Objection for Contract
Award Contract
Delivery
First Lot                              i
Second Lot                             i



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                Appendix 3
Page 3 of 8
1996                   1997                   1998                   1999                    2000                   2001
Tk Name                                     Qtr2    tr3  tr4   t   Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4  tr 1  Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Otr 4 | Qtr 1Qtr 2 | Qtr3 Qtr 4 | Otr 1Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 |Qtr 4
SECURITY AND ACCESS CONTROL
TA Sekeion/Contract Award                  |
Prepare Tech. Specs
Obtain No Objecion
Advertise|                                           
Obtain Bids                                                      1
Selec Evaluation Cornmittee                  
Technical Evaluation                                                 1
No Objection for Contract
Award Contract
Delivery
First Lot                              j
NISI UPGRADING
Regional Office Upgrading                  I                       -
VEHICLE PROCUREMENT
Prepare Tech. Specs
Obtain No Objection
Advertise
Obtain Bids
Select Evaluation Coffimmttee
Technical Evaluation
No Objecdon for Conbact
Award Contract                                                 i
Delvay



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                             AgOpndix 3
Page 4 of 8
1996                  1997                   1998                  1999                   2000                   2001
TaskName                                    32   tr3 Qtr4  Qtr lQtrZ  Qtr3 Qtr4 Otri1Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr1 Qtr2 Qtr32 Qtr4
II. ACTUARIAL DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT
Staff Selection                                    .                           
TA - Procaedures and Autornation Plan.                                                                
TA - Procesdures, Cont.                                                  
Staff Training                                                                   
ACTUARIAL MODEL DEVELOPMENT               *                                                                                     _
TA - Model Developrnent/Training                   I
Staff Training                            *                                                     ;         
DATABASE DEVELOPMENT                         I
TA - Database Development                 .
TA - Database Dev. Follow-up                                                                     I
ACTUARIAL TRAINING                           |
Initial Courses                          I                    _       i
Continuing Education                                                      I
Ill. POLICY PLANNING/ANALYSIS                              I                      I                     I
OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT                     _                                    ;
Staff Slecion
TA - Procedures
TA - Automation Plan
TA - Automatbon Plan, ront.
Staff Training
Staff Training, cont.
Policy Library                                               -             _                                                                    _       _        _



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                Appgndix 3
Page 5 of 8
1996                   1997                   18                     19t1                    2000                   2001
TaIskNantC Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 COtri1 Qtr2 CQtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl |Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Otri IQtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Otri IQtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4
DATABASE DEVELOPMENT
TA - Database Compatibility
TA - Dtabase Compatibility,oont.
TRAINtNG PROGRAM
TA - Policy Analysis Training          __                       _         _____I
Policy Study Tour/Programming course 
Research Study Tour
ANNUAL SURVEY
External TA
Local TA, yr. 1
Local TA, yr. 2                                                                                                                                                            _
Local TA, yr. 3                                                                                                                                                            LA
Local TA, yr. 4
IV. PUBLIC AFFAIRS
OFFICE ESTABUSHMENT
Staff Selection
TA - ProcedursAutomabon Plan
InIal TraIning Course
Yr. 1                                I
Yr. 3                                                                   |
PUBUC AFFAIRS TRAINING
Study tourseminarmedia traini
Public Affairs Office Operations
Long-term Study Tour



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                ARndlix 3
Page 6 of 8
1996         1         197           1        1996          1         1999         1         2a00
Task NW                                      OQtr2C3 |Qtr IQtr2 Qtr3   tr4 |Qtr IQtr2 Qtr3 3Qtr4 Qtr Itr2 Otr3    4 Ci IQtr2tr3                                   2   tr3  tr
Continuing Education                                                                ,
PR CAMPAIGNS
Develop Concepts
Produce TV and Radio Spots
Broadcasting
Produce Public Education Mterials
Demisstion                                                                   -
V. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                         _      _                                                                                                    :
OFFICE ESTABUSHMENT
Staff Selection
Audio-Visual Equip. Procurement m0
Prepare Tech. Specs
Obtain No Objection
Obtain Quotations
Evaluate and Select
Delivery
Sofware Purchase/Customization
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                      _       _;
TA Selection and Contract
TA - Job Descriptions
TA - Skill Needs and Staff Study           j
TA - Salary Scale Definition
TA - Record keeping
TRAINING                                       i__



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                            A endix
Page 7 of 8
1996                  1997                   1998                  1999                   2000                   2001
TaskName                                   Qtr2 Qtr3 |tr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Otr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Otr4
Sr. Manager Training
Yr. 1
Yr.2                                 i 2
Yr. 3I
Yr. 4
Rog. Directors Training
Yr. 1
Yr. 2
Yr. 3
Yr. 4
Supevisors, Hdqrs.
Yr.1                                                   l
Yr. 3
Supervisor Training, Regions
Regional Staff Mel ng
Yr. 1
Yr. 2
NSSI Mgt. Study Tours                                                _
HRM Workshops
Yr. I 
Yr.2 2
Yr. 3
Yr. 4
HRM Shtdy Tour                                                     ___
Yr. 1



BULGARIA: SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                      Appendix 3
Page 8 of 8
1996                 1997                 1998                 1999        1         2000                 2001
TaskNawn                                 Qtr2 Qtr 3Qtr4 Qtr IQtr2OQtr3 Qtr4 |tr |Qtr2 Qtr3|Qtr4 Otr1 |Qtr2|Qtr3|Qtr4 Otr1  Qtr2|Qtr3|Otr4|Qtr1  Qtr2|Qtr3|Qtr4
Yr.3 3
ASSETS MANAGEMENT                                                ___
TA - Study
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
STAFF SELECTION
STUDY TOURS                                J                                                             -
Enily Andrews, Task Manager      Task                                 Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
ECU2HR                           Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                           Rolled Up Milestone



- 139 -
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Information Technology Expert for Development and Implementation of a
Pension Registration System
2.    Project Coordinator
3.    Project Manager
4.    Procurement Officer
5.    Sample Terms of Reference for the Audit of a Bank-Financed Project
6.    Telephone Technology Expert(s) for the Development of Specifications for
Wiring, PBX and Related Equipment






- 141 -                          ARRedix 4
Page 1 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EXPERT FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF A PENSION REGISTRATION SYSTEM
Background
1.           The Republic of Bulgaria has applied for a loan of approximately US$25 million from
the World Bank to help finance the costs of the Social Insurance Administration Project consisting of
the following two components: (a) Improving Operation and Administrative Efficiency; and
(b) Strengthening Institutional Capacity.
2.           A key objective of the project is to establish a comprehensive Social Insurance
Information System (SIIS) to support the operational activities of the Social Insurance Administration
(the Institute). A key step in the development of such a system would be the creation of a central
registry of information on employers, employees, self-employed individuals and pensioners. This key
step will be taken with the utmost urgency so that the SIIS can be fully utilized soon after the system
development is completed and automation equipment is made available to the Institute. In support of
this activity, the Institute plans to start collecting and storing on data bases registry data on employees
from all public and private sector enterprises in early 1997. It is anticipated that this will include key
biographical data, wages, and contributions for all employees. The Institute already has basic data on
enterprises and self-employed individuals.
Summary of Overall Requirements
3.           This terms-of-reference covers the services of an application systems development
expert to assist the Institute and provide technical leadership to and supervision of a small dedicated
internal application development team (estimated to consist of two analysts and two programmers) to
develop the initial registration system, specify and put in place the systems development and
production computer environment for the initial registration system, lead the application systems
development activities and the preparation of training materials for this preliminary data collection,
and train the Institute trainers in preparation for dissemination of the system to all regions and to the
enterprises.
Scope of the Required Technical Assistance
4.           Based upon the above general description, the Republic of Bulgaria seeks the service
of an information technology individual consultant with broad experience in the development of
microcomputer based application systems that are rooted on: user friendly graphical interfaces (GUI);
client-server architectures; SQL standard relational data bases; and modular development based on



- 142 -                             Appendix 4
Page 2 of 17
modern system development methodologies and languages. It is estimated that this assignment will
require about six staff months over a period of about one year, with a substantial part of the time in
Sofia, Bulgaria.
5.            The target technical environment for the SIIS is a UNIX based client-server
environment with Windows based workstations supported by a relational data base system, under
UNIX, to manage data storage. The initial registration system may be based on a different
technology but the Institute requires assurance that data migration to the target environment will be
accomplished with minimum effort. In addition, it would be desirable that as many modules as
possible of the initial registration system could be directly used or, at least, re-implemented in the
target environment with minimum effort.
Deliverables
6.            The key deliverable of this consultancy is a fully functional registration system to be
developed and be placed in operation in a collaborative venture between the Information Technology
Expert and the Institute's development team. The following major deliverables are anticipated to be
the responsibility of the Consultant:
(i)    a strategic plan for the project detailing all steps from initial systems analysis to
delivery of the system in operational mode to the central office and all regions. The
plan should include the technical specifications for all software and equipment that
must be purchased to support the system development activities.
(ii)    design of forms to be used to capture: initial registration information, past wage and
contribution information, current periodic wage and contribution information. It is
expected that most data will be delivered to the institute in electronic form. Therefore
both paper and electronic collection forms need to be designed.
(iii)   technical supervision over the installation of target equipment and software
environments and assistance to the Institute on acceptance of goods delivered.
(iv)   training of development team staff in operations and technical support providing
assistance to the Institute Informatics Management in identifying in-house technical
support requirements.
(v)    fully operational computer systems for: data entry and validation (both at the institute
and to be given to public and private firms), workflow control over returns received
and returns missing, load of received data into the registration data base, and basic
reporting from the data base.1Y
It is understood that the responsibility of the consultant is limited because most of the application developmuit
activities would be undertaken by staff of the Institute. Therefore the responsibility of the Consultant is limited to
that normally attributed to a team leader.



- 143 -                            ARpnRdix 4
Page 3 of 17
(vi)   development of a testing plan to ensure that all systems operate properly before they
are deployed to the public and to the regions.
(vii)  development of a training plan including the training activities necessary for successful
deployment of the system. Technical supervision and quality control over the
production of training materials, that will be developed in Bulgarian language,
including:
Operational Procedures Manuals. This document should contain pertinent information
which are required for use by technical staff who will be responsible for operate and
administer the system and its data bases both centrally and at the regions. At a
minimum, it should cover the following topics: hardware and software requirements;
rules for estimation of data volume; installation procedures; system back up and
recovery procedures; security management procedures; and special operating
procedures such as month-ending, year-ending, initialization, etc. It is anticipated that
there will be two separate manuals for the data-entry modules (to be distributed to the
regions and to interested enterprises) and for the central registry loading and data base
maintenance activities.
User's Manual. This document should be prepared for use by the end users inside
and outside the Institute. It should describe all available functions of the data-entry
system and how to use them. For each function, the required inputs, expected
outputs, editing rules, limitations, and error/system messages should be fully
described. The User's manual should also describe how and when the User should
interact with the Institute's technical staff, and procedures for problem resolution.
(viii) by mid-October 1996, completion of development and testing of the software and
hardware needed for the preliminary data collection required in the Pension Law and
by end of December 1996, fully operational preliminary data system in place.
(ix)   development of a user specification for the personal registration system to cover what
information is to be collected, when and to whom the information is to be supplied.
(x)   the transfer of knowledge to the Institute staff.
Reporting and Communications
7.            The information technology expert will work closely with, receive guidance from, and
give feedback to the Institute's Informatics Management. At the end of each business trip the expert
will prepare a concise report indicating progress against schedule, major issues and making
recommendations to address them. At completion, the expert will submit a project completion report
that will accompany the delivery of the software and final documentation.



- 144 -                          ARpendix 4
Page 4 of 17
Tlming and Level of Effort
8.           The technical assistance is expected to begin no later than April 1996 and to be
provided for about one year elapsed time.
Qualifications
9.           The information technology expert to be selected for providing the technical assistance
is expected to have the following minimum qualifications:
(i)    comprehensive systems development and technical knowledge and skills in all aspects
of planning, development, training, and operation of information technology systems,
with a minimum 5 years of international experience working and operating in both
public and private environment;
(ii)   sound technical knowledge of various types of application software systems and
computer systems with emphasis on in the development of microcomputer-based
administrative application systems that are based on: graphical interfaces (GUI);
client-server architectures; SQL standard relational data bases; and modular
development based on modern system development methodologies and languages; and
proven experience in the development of registration systems.



- 145 -                            Amnadix 4
Page 5 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT COORDINATOR
1.            The following Terms of Reference define the primary responsibilities of the
Coordinator of the Project Coordination Unit of the National Social Security Institute (NSSI) of the
Republic of Bulgaria.v The Unit will be responsible for coordination and implementation of activities
under the proposed Social Insurance Administration Project.
2.            The Coordinator will oversee the establishment, and ensure the sustainability of a
project management structure with adequate and sufficient material and human resources for effective
implementation of project activities. The Coordinator will ensure that the PCU's agreed roles,
functions and staffing are met and carried out. The Project Manager and staff of the PCU (including
long- and short-term consultants) will report to the Director, who in turn will report to the Governor
of the NSSI for all matters related to the project.
3.            Specific responsibilities of the Coordinator include, but are not limited to, those listed
below:
(i)    ensure first-line contact between the NSSI and the World Bank team for all matters
related to activities under the project.
(ii)   ensure first-line contact and communications with other entities (for example, project
working groups, beneficiary institutions, etc.) and agencies (other donors, non-
governmental organizations, etc.) involved in the social security sector to ensure
cooperation and coherency in planned and on-going programs, as well as regular
exchanges of up-to-date information regarding the project.
(iii)   acquire adequate facilities, equipment and other resources to ensure the efficient
operation of the PCU and fulfillment of its responsibilities.
(iv)   together with the Project Manager, arrange and approve short-term staff training, as
needed, for PCU staff in areas such as planning and organizational skills, English
language, procurement under World Bank Guidelines, and World Bank loan
disbursement procedures, and other areas as may be considered appropriate.
1 Given that a project's implementation environment is a dynamic one, the responsibilities outlined here will likely
evolve over time and thus may require reassessment and modification as implementation progresses.



- 146 -                             Appendix 4
Page 6 of 17
(v)    together with the Project Manager, oversee the selection and hiring of short- or long-
term technical assistance (for example, auditors, translators and interpreters, project
management support, labor economists, etc.) to the PCU, including approval of
Terms of Reference and short lists of candidates and supervise the work of such
contractual assistance.
(vi)   ensure regular monitoring of the status of project activities (through the preparation
and updating of implementation plans and schedules, disbursement projections, etc.),
including preparation and transmission of comprehensive progress reports as required
under the conditions of the Loan/Project Agreements, and any other reporting
requirements under the project (for example, annual audits).
(vii)  together with other individual(s) the NSSI may appoint, serve as authorized signatory
to documentation regarding procurement of goods and services (e.g., final approval of
bidding documents, signing of contracts, etc.), withdrawal applications, and other
documentation or correspondence concerning project activities.
(viii)  oversee monitoring of project status, ensuring that implementation activities are in
accordance with project objectives.



- 147 -                             Appendix 4
Page 7 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT MANAGER
1.            The following Terms of Reference define the primary responsibilities of the Manager
of the Project Coordination Unit of the National Social Security Institute (NSSI) of the Republic of
Bulgaria.2' The Unit will be responsible for coordination and implementation of activities under the
proposed Social Insurance Administration Project.
2.            The Manager will oversee the day-to-day implementation of the project. The staff of
the PCU (including long- and short-term consultants) will report to the Project Manager, who in turn
will report to the Project Director for all matters related to the project.
3.            The Manager will lead and manage the staff in the PCU in carrying out the day-to-day
activities in support of implementation of the project. Specific responsibilities include, but are not
limited to, those listed below:
(i)    acquire adequate facilities, equipment and other resources to ensure the efficient
operation of the PCU and fulfillment of its responsibilities.
(ii)   together with the Project Director, select and hire core staff (procurement officer,
accountant, administrative assistant) on the basis of profiles and responsibilities
acceptable to the NSSI and the World Bank.
(iii)   arrange and approve short-term staff training, as needed, for PCU staff in areas such
as planning and organizational skills, English language, procurement under World
Bank Guidelines, and World Bank loan disbursement procedures, and other areas as
may be considered appropriate.
(iv)    supervise daily activities of the PCU, evaluating performance and operating
effectiveness (including on-going staff performance evaluations and feedback), making
recommendations for change, as necessary.
(v)    together with the Project Director, oversee the selection and hiring of short- or long-
term technical assistance (for example, auditors, translators and interpreters, project
management support, labor economists, etc.) to the PCU, including approval of
3' Given that a project's implementation environment is a dynamic one, the responsibilities outlined here will likely
evolve over time and thus mnay require reassessment and modification as implementation progresses.



- 148 -                             Appendix 4
Page 8 of 17
Terms of Reference and short lists of candidates and supervise the work of such
contractual assistance.
(vi)   with the assistance of concerned PCU staff, develop and oversee the implementation
of standardized administrative and operating procedures for the PCU, including, but
not limited to, record-keeping and filing systems - with administrative assistant;
reporting formats for financial transactions under the project (credit and counterpart
fund accounts) - with the accountant; procurement and contract tracking system - with
the procurement officer, etc.
(vii)  ensure that goods and services under the Loan are procured in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines, providing assistance as needed and together with the procurement
officer, to project working groups in drafting terms of reference, defining technical
specifications, negotiating contracts, etc.
(viii)  together with the procurement officer, provide first-line contact with interested
suppliers of goods and services regarding that status of project-related activities, and
planned or on-going procurement.
(ix)   together with any other individual(s) the NSSI may appoint, serve as authorized
signatory to documentation regarding procurement of goods and services (e.g., final
approval of bidding documents, signing of contracts, etc.), withdrawal applications,
and other documentation or correspondence concerning project activities.
(x)    ensure regular monitoring of the status of project activities (through the preparation
and updating of implementation plans and schedules, disbursement projections, etc.),
including preparation and transmission of comprehensive progress reports as required
under the conditions of the Loan/Project Agreements, and any other reporting
requirements under the project (for example, annual audits).



- 149 -                           AppndixA
Page 9 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCLAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROCUREMENT OFFICER
1.           The following Terms of Reference outline the primary responsibilities of the
Procurement Officer of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU of the National Social Security Institute
(NSSI) of the Republic of Bulgaria.A This Unit will be responsible for coordination and
implementation of activities under the proposed Social Insurance Administration Project.
2.           The Procurement Officer will provide assistance to the PCU of the NSSI in the
execution of international and local procurement of goods, works and services under the above
project. The Procurement Officer will work as part of a core team of staff in the PCU, under the
supervision of, and reporting to, the PCU Manager.
3.           The Procurement Officer will:
(i)    ensure the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with World Bank
guidelines for all items financed through the Loan, using standard World Bank
documentation.
(ii)   establish and maintain in the PCU/NSSI a data base of letters of interest received from
suppliers of goods, works and services for purposes of their possible inclusion on
future short lists or for future consultation.
(iii)   work with concerned technical working groups in the preparation of technical
specifications for agreed lists of equipment (including information technology, office
equipment and supplies, vehicles, etc.) to be purchased under the project according to
various procurement methods.
(iv)   assist the PCU/NSSI and concerned technical working groups in formulating
appropriate evaluation criteria, preparation of draft bidding documents, and
transmission of those documents to the World Bank in a timely fashion for review and
no objection, in accordance with World Bank requirements outlined in the
Loan/Project Agreements and the Staff Appraisal Report.
(v)    monitor receipt of proposals and ensure their safekeeping until bid opening.
Y Given that a project's implementation environment is a dynamic one, the responsibilities outlined here will likely
cvolve over time and thus may require re-assessment and modification as implementation progresses.



- 150 -                           Appendix 4
Page 10 of 17
(vi)   carry out public bid openings and draft minutes of these openings.
(vii)  assist the concerned technical working groups, or other individuals comprising the
evaluation committee for a given tender, in the evaluation of proposals received, on
the basis of criteria stipulated in the bidding documentation.
(viii)  ensure preparation of comprehensive evaluation reports according to World Bank
standard formats and timely transmission of evaluation reports to the World Bank for
review and no objection.
(ix)   notify winning bidders in a timely fashion, and draw up contracts for approval and
signature by those individuals authorized to sign on behalf of the NSSI, ensuring
transmission to the World Bank of draft contracts requiring prior review and no
objection.
(x)    establish and maintain on the premises of the PCU efficient procurement and
contracting tracking system (noting important approval dates, awards, contract
amounts, etc.), as well as a proper filing system to ensure quick retrieval of
procurement information by PCU staff, visiting supervision missions, annual auditors,
etc.



- 151 -                          Aoendix 4
Page 11 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
SAMPLE TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE AUDIT OF A BANK-FINANCED PROJECT
Objective
1.           The objective of the audit is to enable the auditor to express his professional opinion
on the financial position of the (name of project) ............... (Cr\Ln no ..... ) at . 199.. and of
the resources and expenditures for the accounting period ended on that date, as presented by the
audited financial statements of the project.
2.           The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
and will include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.
The opinion of the auditor will include specific references as to whether:
(i)    all external funds provided have been used in accordance with conditions of the
relevant financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency and only
for the purposes for which the financing was provided;
(ii)   counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency and only for the
purposes for which they were provided;
(iii)   goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant
financing agreements;
(iv)   all necessary supporting documents, records and accounts have been kept in respect of
all expenditures, including Special Account payments and expenditures made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which separate audit reports have
previously been submitted (see below);
(v)    where Special Accounts have been used, that they have been maintained in accordance
with the provisions of the Credit\Loan Agreement;
(vi)  the financial statements audited, including the Special Accounts, have been prepared
in accordance with consistently applied International Accounting Standards and give a
true and fair view of the financial situation of the project at .......... 199.. and of
resources and expenditures for the year ended on that date.



- 152 -                            Arngendix 4
Page 12 of 17
Audits of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
3.           In addition to the audit of the financial statements, the auditor is required to audit all
Statenents of Expenditure (SOEs) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications.
4.            Audits of SOEs will be carried out within the framework of and under the same
guidelines as the audits of the annual financial statements and will include such tests and controls as
the auditor considers necessary in the circumstances. The auditor will be required to express his
opinion as to whether:
(i)   the SOEs audited have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
Credit\Loan Agreement;
(ii)   all expenditures have been made wholly and necessarily for the realisation of project
objectives and with due attention to economy and efficiency;
(iii)   all information and explanations necessary for the purpose of the audit have been
obtained;
(iv)   all supporting records and documents necessary for the purposes of the audit have
been retained; and
(v)   the SOEs audited can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal application\s.
Reports
S.            The annual audit report should be received no later than .... months-F after the end of
the accounting period to which the audit refers. The SOE reports should be attached to each
withdrawal application made on the basis of an SOE.
6.           In addition to the audit "opinion" report, the auditor will prepare a "management
letter". In this letter the auditor will:
(i)    present his comments and observations on the accounting records, systems and
controls that he has examined during the course of his audit;
(ii)   identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls that have
come to his attention and make recommendations for their improvement;
(iii)  report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants of the
Loan\Credit Agreement and give comments on internal and external matters affecting
such compliance;
1 The delay should not exceed six months. A delay of three months is perfectly reasonable and achievable under
efficient financial management.



- 153 -                           Alpondix
Page 13 of 17
(iv)   communicate matters that have come to his attention during the audit that might have
an impact on future audits; and
(v)    bring to the borrower's attention any other matters that the auditor considers
pertinent.



- 154 -                          Appendix 4
Page 14 of 17
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TELEPHONE TECHNOLOGY EXPERT(S) FOR TIE DEVELOPMENT
OF SPECIFICATIONS FOR WIRING, PBX AND RELATED EQUIPMENT
Background
1.           The project. The Republic of Bulgaria is receiving a loan of about US$25 million
from the World Bank to help finance improvements of the country's social insurance administration in
(a) operational and administrative efficiency; and (b) institutional capacity. The organization in
charge of the project is the National Social Security Institute (the "Institute"). Most of the loan
proceeds will be used to design and implement, practically from scratch, a comprehensive Social
Insurance Information System (SIIS) at the Institute that will gather and hold vital, wage and
contribution data on employees from all the country's public and private sector enterprises. Data on
enterprises and on self-employed individuals will also be collected and processed. Under separate
Terms of Reference, a consultant will take up an assignment comprising several longer visits to the
country, to assist the Institute with the design and piloting of the SIIS.
2.           Telephone component. As part of the loan, an amount of about $2.7 million has been
estimated for investments in improved electronic communications. Mostly this would constitute the
rewiring of the Institute's buildings, and the installation of Private Branch Exchanges (PBXs), and of
telephone sets, while a lesser fraction of the funds is earmarked for data communication equipment
and design/engineering work. The Institute comprises a headquarters (in Sofia) and 28 regional
offices, for a total of about 2,500 staff. As a rough approximation, about 500 staff work at
headquarters, and 50 to 100 in each regional office. The expectation is that the investment will
provide a PBX for each site and implement a total of 1,000 or more individual telephone
extensions/stations. Future expansion to the full complement of one station per employee (plus extra
needs) should be as straightforward as can prudently be prepared for now. The Institute's buildings
typically date from 1970, more or less.
3.           Commercial and regulatory environment. Since 1988/89, telecommunications in
Bulgaria has been largely deregulated, and private businesses are allowed to install telephone wires as
well as PBXs and telephone sets. Wires have to conform to certain specifications, and equipment has
to be approved for use in Bulgaria, under standards and procedures which have been set by a
governmental commission. A number of private businesses have sprouted serving the sector.
International firms are represented among them. The telecommunications branch of the former PT&T
monopoly operates as one of the commercial players (though it currently remains fully state-owned).
Legislation towards further liberalization of the telecommunications sector is under active
consideration.



- 155 -                            Appendix 4
Page 15 of 17
Summary of Overall Requirements and Delivarable
4.            These Terms of Reference cover the services of one or two experts in electronic
communications to assist the Institute in developing technical specifications for a procurement to be
conducted under World Bank International Competitive Bidding ([CB) rules. The procurement would
address, if feasible in one package, the cost-effective wiring of all offices of the Institute for voice
and data, the supply and installation of PBXs and telephone sets at headquarters and in each regional
office, and data communications interfaces and equipment to the extent indicated from progress in the
computerization part of the project. As deliverables, the consultant(s) would produce drafts of the
Technical Specifications and the Schedule of Requirements sections, provide comments on
implications, if any, on the other sections (such as Instructions to Bidders, General and Special
Conditions of Contract) of the standard bidding documents, and advise the Institute on management
and operation of the investment. The consultant(s) are expected to cover the areas detailed in the
following section ("Scope of Work") and take into account any other aspects that they deem to have a
bearing on the task.
Scope of Work
5.            Confirm user requirements. This would be achieved primarily through discussions
with project counterparts at the Institute. The list of requirements to be developed would need to be
mindful of the loan funds available for the procurement, while achieving a maximum of utility for the
typical conduct of Institute business (by, e.g., allowing extensions/stations to be shared within
workgroups). PBX functionality, interface types and capacities between PBXs and central telephone
offices (e.g., trunk lines), and any Institute-wide telephone interfaces, would all need to be discussed
and defined. The potential expediency of PBX alternatives such as electronic key systems for small
offices and/or Centrex-type arrangements should be judged. The data communications requirements
will also need to be ascertained, to the extent possible by progress in the computerization track of the
project. For this, the consultant(s) should interact with the SIIS consultant as feasible. It is expected
that office wiring and PBX will support the (future) implementation of data communications.
6.            Establish standards and market situation. The consultant(s) would gather the
required facts and details on Bulgarian standards and regulations - if necessary in translations - for the
telephone and data wiring of buildings, the approval status and availability of brands of PBX,
telephone set and data communications equipment, the functions and features offered by the public
telephone service, and prospective regulatory developments. They would obtain an adequate picture
of the market situation -- including an idea of the domestic and foreign firms/corporations already
active in the Bulgarian market and capable of meeting the project's requirements, public services
available or planned for wide-area communications with potential usefulness for the project such as
ISDN, X.25 and frame relay networks, and prices that can reasonably be expected. The consultant(s)
will share these findings with the Institute to improve the likelihood of eliciting a solid response to the
ICB.
7.            Ascertain the physical environment. From blueprints of the buildings as may be
available at the Institute or at the state organization with (previous) responsibility for the construction
of government property, and/or through site visits, if necessary of all 29 premises of the Institute, the
consultant(s) are expected to obtain all the required information for producing physical descriptions of
the Institute's buildings satisfactory for bidders' understanding of the wiring and installation effort.



- 156 -                           Appendix 4
Page 16 of 17
The consultant(s) would determine any need for the Institute to add photographs and/or outlines of
floor plans to the descriptions, and advise on any requirements for physical modifications in buildings
which the Institute would need to prepare for this procurement. This is a crucial aspect of the
assignment, since it would not be practical or economical to anticipate bidders to inspect more than a
few of the 29 premises of the Institute. The description of requirements for each building should take
into account plans, if any, that exist about renovations and/or replacements to ensure expedient wiring
and installation approaches. Further, although reuse of installed wires is not expected to be a
practical option, this aspect should also be probed.
8.            Draft Technical Specifications and provide related advice. Based on the
information obtained and own judgment, the consultant(s) will discuss with the Institute feasible
approaches that would meet requirements, and their funding and other implications. They would then
draft the Technical Specifications and the Schedule of Requirements (including the requirements for
installation, acceptance, manuals, and training) for inclusion in the bidding documents, and advise on
other parts of the latter such as feasible delivery schedules, warranty and spare part provisions, merit
evaluation aspects (if any), and any need for stipulating post-qualification of the lowest evaluated
bidder. To this end, the consultant(s) will perform a walkthrough with the Institute of the variable
parts of the World Bank's standard bidding documents and suggest appropriate markups. They will
also specifically advise on (a) whether and how to package the procurement into several lots (the
preference being one lot only); (b) which parts of the overall requirements, e.g., in data
communications, should rather be deferred to a future procurement; and (c) specify any extra and
separate design or planning work if a case can be identified for such work. Equally importantly, the
consultant(s) will advise the Institute on the management and organizational provisions that will need
to be in place for the implementation and operation of the new telephone system.
Timing and Level of Effort
9.            The consultant(s) should perform and complete the assignment between August and
October, 1996.9' Unless the consultants are resident, the bulk of the information gathering would take
place through a mission to Bulgaria of about three weeks duration. The stay would need to be
extended by about a week, if it were found that all 29 sites of the Institute require a personal visit.
Technical Specifications and Schedule of Requirements would need to be drafted during the visit in a
form that is comprehensive enough to be discussed with the Institute before departure. The drafts and
other inputs could be completed after the mission. The total effort, including travel times, is
estimated to take 9 staffweeks (or 45 workdays, by one, or distributed over two, experts).
Qualifications
10.          The consultant(s) should have a track record in the planning, design, and management
of private branch telephone systems, including building wiring, PBX technology, and the interface
requirements to trunk lines and central offices. They should be familiar with relevant industry
standards such as EIA/TIA 568, IEEE 802, X.25/frame relay, ISDN and T/E-series. Their expertise
must include practical up-to-date knowledge of data communications, specifically local area
V Tentative plans are for the bidding, evaluation, and contract award to complete by April 1997, and for
delivery and installation of all wiring and equipment to occur between May 1997 and March 1998.



Appendix 4
- 157 -                           Page 17 of 17
networking using twisted pair/central wiring closets and the wiring requirements of servers (multi-user
computers). If the assignment is performed by two consultants, it is expected that one of the two
would be a resident with in-depth knowledge of the Bulgarian telephony market, regulations, and
other practical considerations.






- 159 -                           Apendix5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
SYSTEM TECHNICAL DESCRIPHION11
A. Introduction
1.           During the World Bank mission to Bulgaria in December 1995, a report was prepared
describing the design of a new information system for the Social Insurance Institute (ref. "Social
Insurance Reform in Bulgaria: Improvement of Operations", December 1995).
2.           In February 1996, during a new visit to the Social Insurance National Institute in
Sofia, an alternative solution for the Social Insurance Information System has been outlined, based on
further discussions and new requirements for system flexibility and expandability.
B. UNIX System Architecture
3.           The new solution is UNIX based. In this scenario, the central system is a UNIX
system according to the standard XPG4 (X/OPEN Portability Guide v.4). The national data base is
located in the central office, where also the system administration and system security are defined and
managed.
4.           The regional offices are equipped with UNIX processing capacity and a subset of
replicated data for routine operations. Only the updated data are transferred on-line to the central
data base, while periodically (daily, weekly, etc.) all data transfer will is made in batch mode.
5.           This allows a great reduction in communication lines costs, as they are tremendously
high at present to allow a completely on-line system (and the public X.25 network does not work
efficiently). It also reduces NSSI operational dependency on the quality of the Bulgarian country-
wide communications network that has not yet achieved acceptable levels of reliability.
6.           The UNIX system allows future adjustments, in case the telecommunication costs will
go down, as the system design is flexible enough to consider such changes. Adjustments are to be
effected by central decision to augment or reduce the amount of operational information from the
central data-bases that will be replicated in the regional office data bases.
7.           The two layers will communicate either in real time or in batch mode, during an
1' Prepared by Angelo Colucci and Paola Zanichelli during the World Bank mission in Sofia, February 19-23,
1996.



- 160 -                           Appendix 5
Page 2 of 4
initial phase, using cheaper phone lines, due to the present expensiveness and low quality of public
and private X.25 network.
8.            Unlike the mainframe solution (detailed in the document referred to above), a period
of transition during which the old and the new systems will coexist does not seem cost effective
although feasible from a technical viewpoint. New systems will be developed in the new UNIX
environment using modem high-level programming languages. Existing IBMNVM based application
systems will be migrated to the new environment at a pace determined by the NSSI. Existing
application systems and data will transition through a parallel run phase that shall for as long as
necessary to ensure the correctness of the newly developed application system.
9.            The data-bases, currently based on VSAM file, will be restructured using relational
data base according to SQL standard as previously described and, obtaining the same results in
security and efficiency described in the mentioned document. Also the considerations about the
cooperative and distributed processing remain valid.
10.          It is necessary to underline that the mid-range systems of the identified class and the
printing tools, which can be usually connected to them, are not usually able to support the current
printing environment. Therefore, the NSSI shall take advantage of the change in computing
architecture to attempt to take advantage of recent developments in printing technology.
11.          Considering that, in this architecture, it will not be cost effective to use the old IBM
systems during the operational phase, for the central system it is advisable to foresee the acquisition
of two UNIX systems. One of the two computer systems shall be used, in the operational phase, for
maintenance of application systems and for future application systems developments. This computer
system shall also provide backup for the most critical applications.
C. Transition Period to the Second Solution
12.          In case of conversion to UNIX architecture, it is not economical to consider a period
of transition in which the current applications function both on the old and new systems. UNIX
systems, to be used, need new applications specifically developed for the new architecture. The
period of transition, therefore, exclusively consists in the implementation of the new system, the new
applications and the information data base. New versions of current applications shall be run in
parallel with the current applications until the NSSI is ensured they are correct.
1.13.        A pilot-LAN will be also implemented as described in Chapter 8.3.2.3. of the
referred document. In this context the recruitment, training and retention of technical personnel
continues to be critical for the success of the project, as the personnel in the Computer Center at
present has no experience on UNIX environment.
1.14.        The new design takes advantage of the fact that the Bulgarian universities are
preparing an increasing number of UNIX experts. Moreover, other public Administration
information system are moving towards UNIX (e.g., the EGN system and the Bulgarian



- 161 -                          Appendix 5
Page 3 of 4
Telecommunications Company). Therefore, "ad-hoc" training for system operators and system
administrators on UNIX operation system and networking (TPC/IP, X.25, SNMP for network
management) is required but may be readily available in the country. Application programmers shall
be trained to use the new programming tools in due time in order to build the new applications
needed to set up the new system. System administrators will need also training in physically setting-
up SQL data base and in production of procedures for backups and restores of logical data.
D. Technical Summary
15.          This chapter describes the UNIX solution in terms of hardware and software
architecture according to what outlined in Chapter 8.2 of the mentioned document. For costing
purposes that document made reference to HP and other proprietary products, but the loan would
procure similar products readily available from several manufacturers. It is expected that most of
these goods and services will be procured using International Competitive Bidding procedures.
16.          Central System
Central Processing Unit and Storage  2 central computer systems; 256 MB RAM; 2 Cards X.25 for
WAN connection 64 Kbps; 4 Units cartridge Dat 8 GB; power
SPEC-INT92 E 135; TPC-C e 400
Disk Sub-System                   RAID 100 GB (formatted) shared by two machines
2 Spare feeders for Disk Array; 1 Additional Module for each
Disk Array, including a second storage processor and 32 MB
cache
Management software for Disk Array capacity
Printing Sub-System               High capacity laser printing subsystem: 200 ppm; on-line and
off-line printing
Operating System                  UNIX XPG4 compatible
Transmission Protocol             TCP/IP
Development Environment           C language; Rapid development environment
RDBMS                             Oracle/Informix



- 162 -                               Appendix 5
Page 4 of 4
E. Development Plan: Activities
17.            The table below indicates the key activities considered during project implementation.
Development and implementation of systems include the training of inspectors at the central and
regional level to the level of proficiency required for effective use of the new systems. Parallel
testing activities will be executed at each site and new systems will be activated as the "official"
system only after NISI is ensured of their correctness.
ACTIVITIES                   Year 1          Year 2         Year 3          Year 4
Project Management                    x  x x    x  x  x  x  x  x             x  x  x  x
General Design & Master Planning      x  x  x
EDP Staff Training                    x  x  x  x
Central System HW and SW                  x  x
installation
SW development and implementation
- Register System                             x  x  x  x  x  x
- Contribution & ST Benefit                       x  x  x  x    x x
- Audit Support                    _                    x   x  x    X  X
- Pension Management                                              x  x  x  x  x  x
- Customer Service                         x  x  x                x   x  x  x
- Financial Management                        x  x  x  x
- Integrated MIS                                      x  x            x  x x    x  x
Regional system HW and SW                             x  x  x
installation                                        I
Telecommunications installation                   x  x  x  x
[Massive data base loading            I.....L.  I        L   L                             II T h  x  I _   I
Parallel testing of new applications  J    [ I  I  T I .I.II    T x Ix   I  x I x       T x
Activation of the new system         j       (     I   TTI1    T11 X1 I          x T x |        I xT
The detailed costs are found in Appendix I of the PIP.



- 163 -                   Appendix 6
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
MATRIX OF PROCUREMENT AND REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES
1.           The following matrix seeks to clarify responsibilities for key steps in procurement and
reporting during implementation among the various players involved in the project. The following
definitions are used in the matrix:
(a)    Project Coordination Unit (PCU) refers to the unit in the NISI responsible for the
general administration of the credit and coordination of project activities. The PCU is
comprised of a project manager, project coordinator, procurement officer, accountant,
and staff assistant. The PCU may be supported by short-term consultants in specific
areas in order that it be able to more efficiently fulfill its role.
(b)    Ad Hoc Committee (AHC) refers to the technical groups established during project
preparation for each subcomponent and maintained throughout implementation to
provide technical support to the PCU.
2.           The PCU is encouraged to organize regular meetings of representatives of the AHCs,
as well as any other individuals involved in project activities both within and outside of the NISI, in
order to keep all parties up-to-date on project status and identify obstacles early on in order to seek
mutually agreeable solutions. Meetings should ideally be organized around an established agenda,
with time allotted for questions or other open discussion. The PCU Coordinator will be responsible
for keeping the Governor of the NISI informed of the outcome of these meetings, and will seek his
guidance in resolving issues if necessary.



- 164 -                      Appendix 6
Page 2 of 9
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS THROUGH COMPETITIVE BIDDING
(Goods requiring prior review)
ITEM/ACTIVITY                 REVIEW             CLEARANCE/DECISION               COMMENTS
Equipment Lists. The      Lists are discussed and    PCU verifies conformity    WB reviews and provides
concerned AHC prepares   agreed with concemed        of lists with component    comments and/or no
list of requirements in   parties, seeking technical    objectives, agreements  objection.
consultation with technical  inputs as necessary. AHC    reached during project
colleagues, as necessary.    ensures conformity of   preparation, and estimated    (NOTE: ALL
("Schedule of             equipment lists with agreed  budgets. Lists are       correspondence will be
Requirements" in the      project inputs, budget     submitted to WB for        channeled through PCU,
Standard Bidding          estimates.                review. Major issues or     which will be responsible
Documents)                                           other relevant points are  for sharing information
highlighted in PCU         with concemed technical
transmittal correspondence    colleagues/AHCs.)
to WB.
Equipment                 The technical              PCU ensures accuracy and   Bid specifications must
Specifications. AHCs      specifications are discussed  completeness of         be 'vendor-neutral ' to
prepare draft technical   and reviewed as necessary   specifications. PCU       ensure faimess to all
specifications in         with NISI and/or other    forward specifications to   bidders.
consultation with technical  experts.               WrB for review. Major
specialists as needed, and                           issues or other relevant
with inputs from the PCU                            points are highlighted in
procurement officer.                                 PCU transmittal
correspondence to WB.
Bidding Documents.        PCU collaborates as        Before submitting bidding    Use of WB's Standard
PCU prepares complete     necessary with AHCs in     documents for WB review    Bidding Documents is
bidding documents with    drafting final bidding    and clearance, PCU ensures  mandatory.
technical assistance if   documents.                their accuracy, conformity
required, and technical                             with Bank standards and
inputs from the AHCs if                             completeness.
required, especially with
respect to final Schedule
of Requirements
(equipment lists);
Technical Specifications;
and Special Conditions of
Contract.



- 165 -                      Appendix 6
Page 3 of 9
ITEM/ACTIVITY                 REVIEW             CLEARANCE/DECISION              COMMENTS
Bid Invitation. The PCU                             Prior to invitation of bids    PCU keeps AHC and
invites bids through                                which will necessitate local  NISI officials concemed
advertisements in local                             currency budgets (e.g., for  informed about the
papers and, in the case of                          taxes or duties, for site  progress of bids.
ICB, through notification                           preparation, for
of all embassies/legations                         installation), the PCU will
of member states of the                             ensure the availability of
Bank (and Taiwan, China)                           those funds.
in Sofia. The PCU should
publish bid notices in
Development Business by
transmitting draft notices
to the Task Manager at
IBRD headquarters,
requesting publication.                            .
Bid Opening Procedures.                                                        These procedures should
Before bid invitation, the                                                     inter alia include the
PCU prepares a draft                                                           stipulation that the bid
protocol of its proposed                                                       opening takes place
bid opening procedures,                                                        immediately after the
including the composition                                                      closing time for bid
of the bid opening                                                             submission (no later that
committee and the                                                              1/2 hour).
procedures to be followed
during bid opening.
Bid Opening. The PCU    During bid opening, the     Incomplete submissions are   Completeness of bids,
arranges for the bid     PCU Director and/or        rejected at the time of bid    bid amounts and names
opening to take place with  procurement officer     opening and the incomplete  of the bidders are
representative(s) who    verifies the completeness    bids returned to the bidders  announced and recorded
would like to attend (e.g.,  of submissions (e.g., that  (see WB guidelines).  in written minutes of the
AHCs, any participating    all requested items, such                           bid opening.
bidders, etc.             as the bid security have
been submitted).



- 166 -                      Appendix 6
Page 4 of 9
ITEMIACTIVITY                REVIEW             CLEARANCE/DECISION              COMMENTS
Bid Evaluation/          Award recommendations    PCU verifies format and     A suggested standard
Reconunendation. PCU    are discussed and reviewed  quality of evaluation report  format for bid evaluation
assists AHCs in carrying    as necessary within the  and recommendations for    reports has been provided
out technical evaluation of  NISI and with concerned    award, and submits to WB    by WB.
bids received on the basis  technical experts (AHCs).  for review and no-
of criteria stipulated in the  All parties seek to ensure   objection.        WB reviews report,
bidding documents, and in  that the evaluation was                            providing comments or
preparing the bid        properly carried out on the                          observations and/or no
evaluation report.       basis of established                                 objection to
evaluation criteria.                                recommendation for
award.
Contract Award. After    PCU staff prepares draft    PCU forwards the draft   WB provides comments
receipt of WB no-        contract(s)(in line with  contract(s) to WB for no-    and/or no objection.
objection, PCU initiates    WB's standard          objection, confirming in
preparation of contract(s)   documents).           covering letter that as
with winning bidder(s).                            concerns the contracting
parties, the contract is in
order.
Contract Signature and    Signature of contracts and   Payments made through  PCU ensures that one
Payments. PCU arranges  payment authorization      special account. Any       original signed copy of
contract signature with  provided by PCU Manager  counterpart financing       contract(s) is forwarded
appropriate parties and  and/or his/her designated    obligations (such as the  to WE for project files.
initiates payment through   authority.             amounts for customs duties
appropriate procedures.                            and taxes) are also
processed in a timely
fashion.
Customs Clearance,                                                           Inclusion in the contract
Delivery and Lnstallation.                                                    of adequate provision for
PCU will coordinate with                                                      assistance in installation
appropriate officials to                                                      and training, if needed,
ensure that goods                                                            is verified by PCU in
imported under the project                                                    consultation with
are cleared through                                                           concerned technical
customs in a timely                                                           colleagues/AHC.
fashion. PCU coordinates
with receiving entities for
ensuring timely delivery
and installation.



- 167 -                       Appendix 6
Page 5 of 9
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS THROUGH SHOPPING AND DIRECT CONTRACTING
ITEM/ACTIVITY                  REVIEW              CLEARANCE/DECISION               COMMENTS
Equipment list (Schedule   Lists discussed and agreed   PCU verifies conformity of  WB reviews and provides
of Requirements). The    with concerned parties,     list with component          comments and/or no
concerned AHC prepares    seeking technical inputs as   objectives, agreements    objection.
list of requirements.     necessary. AHC ensures    reached during preparation,
conformity of list of      and estimated budgets.
requirements with agreed    PCU submits list to WB for
project inputs, and budget   review.
estimates.
Solicitation of Suppliers.   PCU reviews quotes and   PCU selects lowest cost     WB's standard format for
PCU contacts a minimum    ensures with AHC that       supplier who meets          shopping will be used by
of 3 eligible suppliers,   goods offered meet         requirements.               PCU.
shares with them the list    necessary requirements.
of requirements, and                                                              PCU informs WB of
obtains quotes.                                                                   outcome of shopping
process.
Contract with Supplier                                PCU and supplier sign       PCU maintains
and Payment. PCU                                      contract. PCU initiates     documentation on file for
draws up contract with                                payment through special     post-reviews during
selected supplier.                                    account.                    supervision mission.



- 168 -                       Appendix 6
Page 6 of 9
CONSULTING SERVICES
ITEM/ACTIVITY                 REVIEW              CLEARANCE/DECISION              COMMENTS
Terms of Reference.                                                             During the course of
TORs for major packages                                                         project implementation
are substantially agreed                                                        any revisions to agreed
upon at negotiations.                                                           TORs may be proposed,
discussed and agreed
between NISI and WB.
Short Lists. PCU assists                             PCU submits shortlist for    WB may assist in
AHCs in preparation of                               WB review and no           compiling a shortlist
representative shortlists                            objection.                 under certain
for consulting assignments                                                      circumstances.
(refer to WB's guidelines
concerning hiring of
consultants).
Letter of Invitation.                                PCU submits the LOI to     Standard LOI will be
Letter of Invitation (LOI)                           WB for review and no       provided to PCU.
prepared by PCU in                                   objection.                 Particular thought should
consultation with                                                               be given to statement of
AHCs/technical                                                                  evaluation criteria in
colleagues.                                                                     LOI.
Transmission of LOI                                  Authorized PCU             PCU forwards copy of
package. PCU ensures                                 representative signs LOI   fnal package to WB for
transmission of LOI                                  before transmission.       project files.
package (including LOI,
TORs, supplemental
information, and draft
contract form) to each
shortlisted firm/consultant/
Bid Evaluation/           The evaluation findings    PCU forwards evaluation    PCU will format the
Recommendation. PCU    and resulting award          report and recommendation   evaluation report along
assists AHCs in evaluation  recornmendations are    to award to WB for review   the lines of the standard
of proposals received in    discussed and reviewed as   and no objection.       provided by WB.
accordance with           necessary within the NISI
evaluation criteria outlined  and among technical
in LOI, and in preparation   colleagues/AHCs.
of evaluation report.



- 169 -                       Appendix 6
Page 7 of 9
ITEMIACTIVITY                 REVIEW             CLEARANCE/DECISION               COMMEINTS
Invitation to Negotiate.    PCU and concerned AHC                               Note: TA contracts are
Upon receipt of WB no     expert(s) negotiate contract                          the result of extensive
objection to the selected  details with selected                                negotiations between
consultant(s) or firm,    consultant(s) or firm,                                parties, which is
PCU invites selected     including payment terms                                distinctly different from
consultant(s) or firm to  and work plan for carrying                            equipment contracts,
negotiate a contract.     out planned activities.                               where negotiation with
suppliers is not allowed
under WB-financed
procurement.
Contract Award. Draft   PCU ensures agreements    PCU forwards draft
contract is prepared by   of all parties on draft   contract to WB for review
PCU, on the basis of      document.                 and no-objection,
WB's standard contract                              confirming in the covering
form for consultants,                               letter that the draft has been
reflecting agreements                               agreed by all parties
reaching among all parties                          concerned.
during negotiations.
Contract Signature and                              PCU ensures that payments  PCU forwards one
Payment. PCU ensures                                are made in a timely        original copy of the
signature of contract by                            fashion.                    signed contract to WB
authorized representatives                                                      for project files.
and processes payment(s).



- 170 -                      Appendix 6
Page 8 of 9
AUDITING
ITEM/ACTIVITY                 REVIEW             CLEARANCE/DECISION              COMMENTS
PCU will maintain         Project accounts will be  PCU forwards Audit         Note: Under its Articles
separate project accounts:   audited annually by    Reports to WB within six    of Agreements, the Bank
for expenditures through    extemal auditors, financed   months after the closing of   must assure itself that
the WB credit, as well as   by the project. For local   the Govemment's fiscal  project funds are
expenditures from         expenditures, normal      year.                      appropriately spent,
Government counterpart    Government financial                                 hence the importance of
financing. A Special      regulations will apply.                              timely, good quality
Account will be                                                                audits.
established to allow timely
payments of expenses                                                           Sample terms of
from loan funds.                                                               reference for hiring a
PCU is responsible for                                                         consultant auditor are
hiring auditor(s) in a                                                         provided in the PIP.
timely fashion so as to
ensure up-to-date
reporting.



Appendix (.
-171-                           Page9of9
PROGRESS MONITORING AND REPORTING
ITEM/ACTIVITY                    REVIEW              CLEARANCE/DECISION                 COMMEINNTS
PCU coordinates             Comprehensive progress      Semi-annual progress         The iippoi:ance of
preparation of a semi-     reports are finalized by the  reports are transmitted to  action-oriented progress
annual progress report on    PCU, and reviewed by the   WB for observation and       repoir': La  hardly be
project implementation, as  Minister before             comment, according to the    oversuited. Progi,.
well as on the status of    transmission to WB.         timetable for submission     reports are a u.sL,ul
sector reform activities.                               established in the credit    mechanism for shanng
Collaboration with                                      agreement. PCU notes in    information with
concemed AHCs and                                       covering correspondence      concemed parties
inclusion of their inputs                               that concerned technical     regarding overall status
will be essential.                                      colleagues/AHCs and the      of project and sector
Minister have endorsed the   reform  activities,
report.                      difficulties encountered,
PCU ensures circulation of   progress made, problems
progress reports to          solved or solutions
members of AHCs and          proposed for those still
other interested parties.    unresolved issu; . It
thus al,o becomes ;in
important tool II
ensuring that the
objectives of the project
are being achieved.
Reports should inulude
information about, inter
alia: (a) physical
progress (status of
sta,fing, contract
invitations, awitrds, TA
progress etc ': (h)
financial prtgress
(status of budgets,
commuitments, and loca!
and foieign currency
expenditures); (c) project
outcomes (fulfillment of
legal covenants, changes
in monitoring indicators
and other measurable
indicators of change; and|
(d) frank assessments of
progress on
implementation of the
agreed sectoi reform
agenda.






Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Chart 1: IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND ADDITIONAL RESOURCE REOUIREMENTS
ADDITIONAL RESOURCE
COMPONENT                            ACTIVITY                       IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                        REQUIREMENTS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT             Implementation of Project Activities   NSSI                                   1 Project Manager
1 Procurement Specialist
Office Equipment
Study tours/training for senior officers
Component 1:                   Procedural reforms,                    NSSI.  Department of Operations        Office Equipment
INTEGRATED SOCIAL              New information system: TA,                    Policy, Systems and IT         Staff Training
INSURANCE SYSTEM               Equipment and Training
Component 2.1:                 Design and Operation of Actuarial      NSSI.  Department of Policy, Planning   2 professional staff
ACTUARIAL DEVELOPMENT          Program: Technical Assistance,                 and Information Statistics and    Office Equipment
Training Equipment                            Actuarial Analysis Division     Staff Training
Component 2.2:                 Design and Operation of Policy and     NSSI.  Department of Policy, Planning   3 professional staff
POLICY PLANNING AND            Planning Function                              and Information, Policy        Office Equipment
ANALYSIS                                                                      Planning and Analysis Division   Staff Training
Component 2.3:                 Design and Operation of Public Affairs   NSSI.  Department of Policy, Planning   2 professional staff
PUBLIC AFFAIRS                 Program                                        and Information, Public Affairs   Office Equipment
Division                       Audio-Visual Equipment
Medio time
Staff Training
Component 2.4:                 Design and Operation of new Resource   NSSI.  Resource Management             Office Equipment
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           Department                                     Department, Human Resource    Audio-Visual Equipment
Division                       Staff Training
F.T. - Full time staff         P.S. - Permanent Staff






R 0 M A N I A
0
P,'i 0 14 T 4 N .4                                                                                     0 -               v 4  N .a
0
FED. REP.                            9
OF                                                                                                                   -a
YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA/
0,
MONTENEGRO)                                                                                             "ID, D,y-...                                                              0,y,th-
J           C.-
a'    OF 07
P. d,p
!v,- P
p'R,,d6                    17-
B.b.- 0     F I A
D.
H A S K 0 V 0
S 0
Lyt,b .. kh-,
Akh, P1
Aik.
12                                                                                                                                                                      ol
0
f
2'  TURKEY                  28                           29
D.b...
BULGARIA
e;,
5-1 10                                                                         OCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION
MACEDONIA                                                                                              o                                                   S
PROJECT
T-   I
P.dk-C,                                                     REGIONAL SOCIAL INSURANCE OFFICES
0     NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUE NSS I
REGIONAL OFFICES
2'                            23                                                                                                                                        0    3FLECTED CiTIES AND TOWNS
,   OBLAST CAP TALS
G   R  E  E  C   E
NAT ONAL CAPITAL
q(D-Nl                                                                                                                                                                 ROADS
L    FORT,,
'ED REP                                                                                                                                                                          OBLAST BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtES
80     1,0
Aegean   S e a
Ll-'ETFRI,
v u,,., Pi r W"'d 3-
T,. P   E                                                                                                                          7hl  IL -1             4., - -f
:JEE', E                                                                                                                                                                          ttl
25                           26
,NE









IMAGING
Report No:      15531 BUL
Type: SAR



