Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4081-0 BUL
Project Agreement
(Social Insurance Administration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE
Dated December 16, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4081-0 BUL
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE 
(NSSI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Bulgaria (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty\1efour million three 
hundred thousand Dollars ($24,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NSSI agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NSSI, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
relent to NSSI on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS NSSI, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NSSI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule  to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NSSI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NSSI shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the
Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. NSSI shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 28, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.05. NSSI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NSSI shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.06. (a) NSSI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
Page  3
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) 
NSSI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by NSSI of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. During the implementation of the Project, NSSI shall:
(a)
by December 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the Bank for comments 
and review annual workplans for the upcoming year for its newly-established offices of 
actuarial analysis, policy evaluation and development and public affairs and carry out 
the said plans taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon;
(b)
by December 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the Bank for comments 
and review its staff training and development plans for the upcoming 12-month period 
and carry out the said plans taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon;
(c)
by December 31 and June 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the Bank 
reports on progress achieved on each Project component, identifying results achieved 
so far and activities to be carried out in the upcoming six-month period;
(d)
maintain the PCU, with: (i) functions that shall include coordination, 
management and monitoring of Project activities and oversight of all disbursement, 
procurement and reporting activities under the Project; and (ii) staff that shall 
include Project coordinator, Project manager, procurement officer, an accountant and 
administrative officer, all with qualifications,  experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)
maintain the Project Advisory Group, which shall responsible for 
overseeing and coordinating Project implementation, and shall at all times be headed 
by the Governor of NSSI and include the Project coordinator and the heads of the five 
technical working groups that were established within NSSI to design individual 
Project sub-components during Project preparation; and
(f)
maintain the Informatics Team, which shall work on the design and 
implementation of the central register and the Social Insurance Information System 
under Part A.1 of the Project, with at least four professional staff, with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08.  NSSI shall:
(a)
by March 31, 1999, carry out a review of the penalty structure for 
non-compliance or arrears in payroll tax obligations and submit to the Bank for 
comments a report summarizing the findings of the said review; and
(b)
by December 31, 1999, submit to its Supervisory Board for approval, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments and suggestions thereon, recommendations for 
modifications of the penalty structure, based on findings of the said review, 
including draft amendment to the Social Security Fund Law that would introduce the 
necessary modifications to the administrative penalty structure governed by the said 
Law.
Section 2.09.  NSSI shall hold its accounts only in banks which shall agree, in 
writing, to: (i) identify individual deposits in the said accounts, including the name 
and TAX ID number of each depositor making such deposits; and (ii) provide this 
information in statements supplied to NSSI.
Section 2.10.  NSSI shall conduct annual actuarial forecasts of the revenues and 
expenditures of the SSF and provide reports containing the results of the said annual 
actuarial forecasts to the Supervisory Board of NSSI, the Borrower’s Parliament and 
the general public.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NSSI
Page  4
Section 3.01. NSSI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NSSI shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and 
financial practices.
Section 3.03. NSSI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NSSI shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) NSSI 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of NSSI 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify NSSI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  5
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For NSSI:
National Social Security Institute 
62-64 Stambolijsky Boulevard
1303 Sofia
Bulgaria
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NSSI, or by 
NSSI on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
the Governor of NSSI or such other person or persons as Governor shall designate in 
writing, and NSSI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kenneth Lay
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE
By /s/ Snezhana Botusharova
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  6
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Computer software applications which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from 
a limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for the upgrading of the facilities referred to under Part A.3 of the 
Project, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
Page  7
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more and each contract procured in accordance with procedures set forth in 
Parts B.1 and C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
