Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3132-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
ELEVENTH POWER PROJECT
October 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1           =    Rp 625
Rp 100         =    US$0.16
Rp 1 million        US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MIEASURES
1 metric ton           =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)            =  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)          0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)        =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere      =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere          1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (1W)        =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)      1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS  - National Planning Agency
BATUBARA  - National Coal Entity
DGEP      - Directorate-General Electric Power, Ministry of Mines and Energy
DKI       - Daerah Khusus Ibukota, the special district of the capital
city of Jakarta
GOI       - Government of Indonesia
LNG       - Liquified natural gas
MME       - Ministry of Mines and Energy
ODA       - Official Development Assistance
PCR       - Preece, Cardew and Rider, UK
PERTAMINA - National Oil Company
PLN       - National Power Authority
REPELITA  - Five-Year Development Plan
PLN'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - tarch 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
ELEVENTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the national
electricity authority
Amount:            $170 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Govern-
ment to PLN on the same terms as the Bank loan; the
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The main objectives of the project are to increase PLN's
transmission and distribution capacities, enable grid
extensions to be made to rural areas, and provide consul-
tancy services for schemes which will enhance the use
of coal, develop an effective grid system and continue
PLN's institutional growth. The project will consist of:
(a) a distribution system for Jakarta and the regencies of
Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek) in West Java
involving construction of about 450 km of 20 kV cables, 760
km of 20 kV overhead lines, 1,336 sub-stations and 800
pole-mounted transformers, about 5,300 km of new low voltage
lines and some 320,000 service connections;
(b) a high-voltage (HV) system, complimentary to (a) above,
involving five new sub-stations in Jakarta, 46 km of double-
circuit 150 kV cables and 980 MVA of transformers;
(c) engineering of the next base-load coal or multiple-fired
thermal power units in Java;
(d) engineering of the Extra High Voltage (EHV) Central-East
Java transmission line; and
(e) management consultancy for further improvements in PLN's
financial planning and control systems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
There are no unusual risks associated with this
transmission and distribution project.
Estimated Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) -----
Base Costs
Jabotabek distribution              61.5      99.4    161.0
Jabotabek high voltage system        24.2     64.8      89.0
Engineering of new thermal power
units in Java                      0.5       3.7       4.2
Engineering of Central-East
Java EHV Extension                 0.2       0.8       1.0
Management consultancy                0.2      0.6       0.8
Subtotal                       86.6    169.3    256.0
Contingencies
Physical                             4.3       8.2      12.5
Price                               22.5      28.5      50.9
Total Costs                   113.4    206.0    319.4
Financing Plan:                                            Local   Foreign   Total
…($ million) ----
Source
IBRD                                   -       170.0    170.0
PLN/Government                        113.4     36.0    149.4
Total                         113.4    206.0    319.4
Estimated           Bank FY                1982       1983      1984     1985
Disbursements:
Annual                  5.0      28.0      110.0      27.0
Cumulative             5.0       33.0      143.0    170.0
Rate of Return:    18%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3468-IND, dated September 30, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN ELEVENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $170 million to help
finance an Eleventh Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be onlent to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
(PLN), the national electricity authority, on the same terms as those of the
proposed loan. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /1 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $430./2
4.        The economy has grown at an annual rate of almost 8% for over a
decade - the highest sustained growth rate of any low-income country. Until
about the end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to
/1 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/2 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
1973/74), this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the
severe dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took
effective action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a
major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973/74 to over $10 billion in 1980/81 and as a result the balance of payments
moved into current account surplus - of $2 billion in 1979/80 and almost $3
billion in 1980/81 - for the first time in over two decades. Although
production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil enclave
has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion of
foreign exchange resources into the economy. Growth has been well diversi-
fied, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to
12% per annum in manufacturing and construction. However, despite the
favorable growth performance, the economy is still underdeveloped, with a
share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on
the nonoil current account. Present projections of supply and demand for oil
suggest a decline in net export revenues of the oil sector in relation to the
growing needs of the economy, in the second half of the decade. For viable
long-run growth the economy will have to undergo significant structural
changes during the 1980s, to effect a broad-based expansion of industrial
production and of both industrial and agricultural exports.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population.  Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
around 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas.  There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby



- 3 -
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains underdeveloped, and only 12% of the population has access to
safe water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84), are equity, growth and the maintenance of
national stability. The fact that Indonesia's resource position is likely to
be favorable for the first half of the 1980s presents the country with an
unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to bring about the
adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.        Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run development, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation and an erosion of international competitiveness.
This emphasizes the importance of a distribution of incremental expenditure in
favor of improving sectoral supply responses. In particular, it is important
that a reasonable expansion of credit to the private sector be maintained - in
the past this has been excessively squeezed to maintain monetary stability.
This could entail a slower rate of expansion of GOI expenditure.



- 4 -
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical impor-
tance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of largescale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The
1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved
the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries and was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax
rebates) to provide additional incentives. The trade regime is still
characterized by a wide variation in rates of effective protection, but GOI
is taking measures to rationalize the system. However, the private sector
also suffers from a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and limitations on the availability of credit. These
will require further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia faces a
potentially serious long-run energy problem. Oil and gas now account for 98%
of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage,
in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower and geothermal
potential. This will require both a major investment program in this decade
and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more efficient energy
use. The most important policy measure required is the gradual elimination of
the subsidy on some petroleum products that is now a major distortion in the
system.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food pro-
duction and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record
level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agri-
cultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting.
This will require substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing.
13.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of unemployment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major



- 5 -
mismatch between supply and demand at this level. In the short run there is
scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training
schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance
fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is
also a strong justification for the use of incremental resources in the health
sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure and urban and
rural water supply will have to be complemented by the development of
innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems, involving
the participation of local communities. The successful family planning
program provides a good model.
14.       The public sector has been of growing importance, with central
government expenditures now accounting for around 30% of GDP. A significant
fraction of incremental resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to
public and private consumption in the form of higher civil service and
military salaries from initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities.
Subsidies on petroleum products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly
to a budgeted level of over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded
the economy from sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to
be limited and consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not
been the very poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the
extent that it now appears that the financial constraint is often less
important than nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled
manpower, the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-auditing practices. However, restrictions
in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small firms controlled by
economically weak groups is likely to delay local project implementation.
Wider issues of administration, including the question of decentralization,
are also under review. Finally, there is a continuing need to increase
allocations to maintenance of public investments, notably in irrigation and
roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to maintain
the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since expendi-
ture from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expenditure from
oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP actually
declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and 1980/81.
It is important that the capacity of the tax system be increased through
expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration.
There is also great scope for mobilization of resources through reduction of
the subsidies on petroleum and other products. A steady rise in domestic
petroleum prices to the international level during the 1980s would have a
major impact on budget savings.



- 6 -
16.       External financing of GOI expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion in
1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in 1978/79.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15 billion at
the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public debt totalled
almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. New commitments in 1980 were almost equal
to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980 economic memorandum on
Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated to have reached
$1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of foreign exchange, in
the near term capital inflows are not required on resource grounds. However,
during the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered, a
resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an
urgent need for support of policy and institutional changes embodied in
foreign loans. It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real
level, and on harder terms, in the first half of the 1980s. It is of
particular importance that external finance be used to support policies
designed to prevent the re-emergence of a serious resource deficit toward the
end of the decade. It is anticipated that the public debt service ratio, with
oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 9-10% for the first
half of the 1980s.
17.       In the past, selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended on the grounds that finance of only the foreign exchange cost of
projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's capital requirements. In view
of the present favorable resource position, in the future local cost financing
will be limited to projects of key importance and where such financing is
required to ensure a significant Bank contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of July 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmi-
gration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank
Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and
credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.



- 7 -
19.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
20.       The resource surplus discussed in Part I of this report provides
GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development effort. This
will require both effective policy reform, notably in improving the policy
environment for private investment, and major investments in industry, infra-
structure, treecrop development and human resources development. The Bank's
program of lending and economic work is being geared to support the required
measures. Since the resource constraint has been alleviated, at least
temporarily, the primary emphasis of Bank involvement will be on policy and
institutional development and technical assistance in the key sectors. This
will involve a close integration between sector work. and lending and the
gradual broadening of lending to the subsector and sector level in order to
assist with policy issues at this level.
21.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves
a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive export-
oriented growth, and it is planned to follow this with a series of industrial
projects. In energy, new sector work and continued lending will concentrate
on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and
improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and treecrops will continue to absorb
a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance of these sectors,
and continued support for transport is anticipated. Increased lending is
planned in the areas of provision of social services, in population, health
and nutrition, urban development and water supply. In these areas there
will be increased emphasis on institutional support and the develpoment of
innovative low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will
focus on improving the working of the whole health care system at the level
of a specific province.



- 8 -
22.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken
several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial
procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial
project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented
for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications
are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This
was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to
$277.8 million in FY80, and to $373.5 in FY81. While it is important that the
Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
23.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
-.utoff of $625.  Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
24.       The proposed project constitutes the second lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
highway has been previously approved this fiscal year and projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Bukit Asam mining and
transport, second seeds, tenth education and second fertilizer distribution
projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Energy Resources
25.       Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Petroleum reserves
have been exploited for some time, and petroleum now accounts for 90% of
total commercial energy consumption. Reserves are estimated at about 50 bil-
lion barrels, but proven resources are between 10-15 billion barrels. With



- 9 -
production at around 1.6 million barrels per day, projected increases in
domestic demand could rapidly reduce the surplus available for export and
have serious consequences for the growth of the economy. GOI has therefore
adopted a policy of promoting alternative indigenous energy sources for
domestic consumption such as coal, natural gas, hydroelectricity, and geo-
thermal.
26.        Indonesia-s coal reserves are conservatively estimated at 1.2 bil-
lion tons, 86% of which are in Sumatra and the balance in Kalimantan. Some
estimates place the total reserves at as high as 15.0 billion tons: explora-
tion to prove the extent of reserves is proceeding only slowly. Production
is currently running at about 300,000 tons per year. Consistent with GOI
policy of increasing the utilization of nonoil energy resources, coal
production is now to be expanded. To this end, a major project is being
developed at the Bukit Asam field in South Sumatra. This project, which is
being considered for Bank financing, would involve production of 3 million
tons per year by 1987; most of its output will be used for power generation
at the Suralaya thermal station in West Java. In addition, foreign private
sector participation is being actively solicited for the exploitation of
Kalimantan fields.
27.       The estimated natural gas reserve is about 70 trillion cu ft, of
which 5 trillion cu ft represents gas associated with oil production. The
present production level is about 800 billion cu ft per year, nearly half of
which is exported to Japan in liquified form. Pipelines have recently
been laid to steel and fertilizer factories and domestic consumption is
expected to increase at the rate of 15% per year during the next ten years.
28.        The theoretical hydropower potential of the country has been
roughly estimated at 31,000 MW. Although the distribution is not ideal (the
greatest potential lying in Irian Jaya where electricity demand is smallest,
while Java has the greatest demand and least potential), exploitation of
this potential to the extent possible is also a central element of GOI
energy policy.  In FY81 the Bank loaned $250 million to support a major
hydroelectric project at Saguling in Central Java (Loan 1950); other hydro-
electric projects are under construction in Sumatra and at the planning stage
in West and Central Java.
29.       While geothermal resources are known to exist in a number of
observed fields, stretching from Sumatra to Irian Jaya, the exact extent is
not yet known. Development is so far confined to a 30 MW first stage project
at Kamojang, Java, but contracts have recently been initialed for the
formation of a joint venture with the Union Oil Company to exploit another
Java field to 300 MW by 1986.
30.        Besides promoting the exploitation of alternative commercial energy
sources, GOI is also exploring the possibility of substituting charcoal for
kerosene, which is widely used for cooking, and in rural areas also for



- 10 -
lighting. Indonesia's forestry resources are abundant, and since they
represent renewable sources of energy, the country could derive considerable
savings if appropriate technologies were developed to facilitate the use of
firewood for energy. A USAID-funded study is shortly to be launched to shed
more light on these and related renewable energy options.
Energy Policy
31.        The principal agency responsible for the implementation of GOI
policies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
MME was established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy
sector and control the state enterprises responsible for the execution of
GOI policies in the energy subsectors - oil and gas (PERTAMINA), coal
(BATUBARA) and electricity (PLN). Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector; for example, Public Works supervises hydropower
sources, Agriculture oversees forestry products, and the National Atomic
Energy Commission is responsible for nuclear development. In order to
ensure appropriate coordination of energy policy the President recently
established an inter-ministerial National Energy Board to oversee sectoral
development.
32.       The general sector objectives expressed in Repelita III may be
summarized as follows:
(a) diversification of primary energy sources, with particular
emphasis on renewable sources;
(b) improving the efficiency of energy conversion and utilization; and
(c) expanding rescrch programs.
As the available statistics on both energy resources and consumption are
limited the Bank Group has funded a number of studies on energy supply and
demand: work on electricity demand in Java was financed under Credit 399;
hydropower potential is being investigated under Loan 1365; and a sector
management information system will be financed under Loan 1513. More
recently, the Minister of MME asked the Bank to undertake a more comprehen-
sive survey of the energy sector with a view to systematizing the data
currently available, identifying the major deficiencies and assisting GOI to
determine the best method of proceeding with sector development and policy
formulation. A mission visited Jakarta in November 1980 and again in March
1981 and its draft report has been forwarded to GOI. It is expected that
extensive discussions will follow.
33.       Among the issues facing the sector is the system of energy pricing.
Subsidized petroleum product prices have caused serious distortions in the
economy by failing to reflect the opportunity cost of these products to the



- 11 -
economy. The effects of this have been to favor the use of oil over other
competing fuels, the promotion of domestic consumption over exports, and,
because the degree of subsidy between oil products is uneven, to distort
demand between individual petroleum products (para. 11). The Bank has had a
continuous dialogue with GOI on the question and has highlighted the
consequences of this policy in its economic and sector work. The energy
sector survey (para. 32) is also expected to assist GOI in formulating a
global energy strategy encompassing the pricing issue. In recent discussions
with the Bank, GOI has expressed its intention eventually to eliminate the
subsidies subject to maintaining poor consumers ability to satisfy their
energy needs. In fact, a major step was taken in this direction in May 1980
when the price of gasoline was increased to the international level. However,
while kerosene, diesel fuel and fuel oil prices were also increased, they
remain substantially below world market prices.
The Electricity Subsector
34.       The electricity subsector is regulated by the MME through its
Directorate General of Electric Power (DGEP). The subsector comprises
(i) PLN (discussed below in detail), (ii) captive plants installed by private
parties for their own use, (iii) small municipal franchises, and (iv) a small
number of cooperatives which were set up to provide electricity in remote
rural areas.
35.       PLN Background.  PLN is a public corporation (Perum) constituted
under Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the gene-
ration, transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning,
construction and operation of electricity supply facilities. Until 1979
these responsibilities were exclusive to PLN, but in that year, with the
objective of facilitating the exploitation of electric power, GOI enacted
legislation allowing the intervention of private entities and cooperatives
in the sector under license from MME; thus far, no such entities have been
so licensed.
36.       PLN is managed by a board of directors headed by a president
director, who is appointed by the President and is accountable to the
Minister of MME. The president director has authority for all day-to-day
operations of PLN. The board currently comprises five other directors with
functional responsibility for planning, construction, operations, finance and
administration. Operational responsibility devolves to 16 regions, and
capital project responsibility to a number of project managers.
37.       Thus far the preponderance of decision making and control has been
retained at headquarters, but the growth in size and geographical dispersion
of PLN's operations has made this form of management increasingly inappro-
priate. The Minister has required PLN to review its management structure
with the two principal objectives of decentralizing more responsibility to



- 12 -
the regions and rationalizing headquarters functions. The project will
support this initiative by providing management consulting services to elabo-
rate the new machinery of management control and to engineer the necessary
changes in the systems of accounting and financial control.
38.       PLN's Market.  Past records on PLN's market are limited to PLN's
sales which, because of the very low levels of consumption and the severe
restrictions and interruptions affecting service, reflect PLN's ability to
supply rather than potential demand. A study to assess potential demand in
Java was undertaken in 1974-76 by consultants financed under an early power
project (Credit 399); with adjustment this is currently used by PLN as the
basis for investment planning in Java. It suggests that PLN's sales growth
will be limited only by its own ability to supply until about 1986, when full
market penetration will be achieved; thereafter, sales growth in Java will be
delimited by growth of the market itself.  Similar studies are currently in
progress in Bali and Sulawesi, and one is planned for Sumatra. Thus, while
market size is unlikely to be a constraint on growth within the lead times of
the facilities PLN is currently beginning to construct, PLN must take steps
to ensure that its future investment decisions are based on sound market
knowledge.  PLN is building its market survey capability and taking steps to
ensure that regions play their proper role in demand forecasting; the power
sector management information system study funded under Loan 1513 will
clarify planning relationships between PLN, the MME, and other concerned
agencies.
39.       Existing PLN Facilities.  Until the early seventies, the expansion
of PLN-s facilities was constrained by the foreign exchange shortages Indone-
sia faced. Accordingly, a crash program of development was instituted based
largely on gas turbines; these still comprise about 30% of the total capacity
of 2,610 MW. However, this imbalance in plant is being corrected; as part
of its present program, 1,000 MW of new steam capacity will be commissioned by
PLN by 1982 and a number of hydroelectric projects are under implementation.
40.       PLN also operates over 6,000 km of transmission lines at 70 and 150
kV and about 47,000 km of distribution lines, the bulk of which are in Java.
About 2,000 km of 150 kV transmission lines under construction are scheduled
for completion by 1982; Java will have a fully interconnected grid at 150 kV
by 1982. A 500 kV system covering West and Central Java will be commissioned
by 1984 and extended throughout Java thereafter.
41.       PLN's Development Plan.  PLN follows the practice of preparing
annually a ten-year development plan to cover the projected requirements of
generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities. The latest
plan covers the development period FY81 to FY90. It has been formulated on
the basis of the following objectives:
(a) optimize domestic resource utilization by substituting use of oil
by coal, hydro and geothermal resources for power generation and
by reducing the use of fuel-inefficient installations;



- 13 -
(b) realize economies of scale through larger-sized installations;
(c) achieve operational economy by coordinating the utilization of
plants through interconnected operations; and
(d) achieve and maintain acceptable standards of reliability of supply.
42.       PLN has recently developed in-house capability for carrying out
least-cost generation planning studies with computer modelling and this has
been employed to arrive at the development plan for Java, which is expected
to continue to account for about 80% of PLN's electricity sales through the
1980s. Planning for the Other Islands has hitherto been carried out by less
sophisticated methods, but with increased involvement of the regions in the
planning process and the strengthening of the computer data base which is
now in progress, a significant improvement in the quality of Other Island
planning is expected over the next two years. Through PLN, GOI reviews the
development program each year with the Bank. PLN now urgently needs to
establish a financial plan to match its development plan: the necessary
steps are described in para. 46.
43.       On the basis of the present knowledge of the market, the overall
rate of growth of sales envisaged in PLN's plan is an average of 22% per
year through 1983, falling to 16% by 1989. One condition for achieving
these targets will be PLN-s ability to implement an adequate connection
program. To address this PLN had agreed under Loan 1513 to prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its review its annual consumer connection program and
thereafter implement it in a satisfactory manner. This is being done.
44.       PLN's development plan shows generating capacity increasing from
2,610 MW to over 9,500 MW by the end of the decade. The greatest part of the
increase (4,300 MW) will be in the form of thermal plants; by 1989 they
will contribute over half the generating capacity and all of those to be
planned from now on will be coal-fired. New hydroelectric plants will add
1,500 MW, over 20% of the additional capacity. Together with associated
transmission and distribution facilities, projects to be completed through
FY89 are estimated (at constant 1980 prices) to cost a total of $7.4 billion,
of which $4.5 billion would be in foreign exchange.
45.       PLN's Financial Results.  PLN operated at or near breakeven in net
income terms for five years through FY80 (ended March 31,1980). Its invest-
ment program accelerated rapidly during this period and by FY80 capital
expenditure was running at over Rp 300 billion annually - more than twice
sales revenue. With negligible net earnings, PLN's only sources of internal
funds have been depreciation retentions and customers- connection fees, which
funded 21% of capital expenditures over the last five years. GOI provided
the rest of the funds required, mainly in the form of equity capital, though
recently the onlending of funds from international lenders has formed an
increasing proportion of GOI funding to PLN. PLN has agreed under past power
projects that it would attain by FY86 a level of contribution to its
investment program from internally generated funds of not less than 30%



- 14 -
(implying a rate of return on revalued assets of approximately 8%); this
contribution target has been reconfirmed by PLN. Indicative target levels of
contribution for the intervening years have also been adopted: 12% for
FY80-FY82; 20% for FY83-FY84; and 25% for FY85. PLN achieved its indicative
target comfortably in FY80 and FY81 and is expected to do so in FY82, mainly
because of the introduction in May 1980 of a new tariff schedule to which the
Bank contributed extensively. Attainment of the indicative targets for FY83
through FY85, and the covenanted level for FY86 and beyond, will call for a
further tariff increase of about 20% in real terms in FY83. Since loan
financing is a relatively recent innovation for PLN, its debt:equity ratio
stands at the conservative level of 17:83.  The current ratio is 4.7, and with
assets including Rp 100 billion in cash, the authority's liquid position is
satisfactory. It has been agreed that PLN will maintain a debt:equity ratio
of 60:40 or below and a debt service coverage of 1.3.
46.        PLN's investment program is now of such a size that its financial
implications must be reviewed with equal care with technical and economic
considerations, and a judgment made of the feasibility of the proposed
investment in terms of the requirement for capital funds, and the level of
revenues necessary to meet associated operating costs. Then, PLN needs to
develop a financing strategy which will give it the greatest assurance of the
availability of funds for its capital program.  Although legally entitled to
issue obligations and borrow in its own right, in practice PLN obtains all its
external funding from GOI.  But GOI's commitment of funds is limited to the
fiscal year's budget, whereas the lead time for many of PLN-s projects is 4-6
years and its overall investment planning period is 10 years.  In consultation
with the Bank, PLN is alqo engaged in an explorat±on of the extent to wh.ich it
could prudently increase its debt:equity ratio over the next few years. At
negotiations, it was agreed that PLN would, as part of its annual planning
procedures, (i) institute a ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed
development plan; (ii) test each development plan for financial feasibility;
(iii) develop a financing plan covering the first five years of the forecast
period; and (iv) ensure that its recommended development plan and associated
financial forecast and financing plan are reviewed by the GOI and the Bank
(Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition GOI agreed to take
appropriate measures to facilitate access by PLN to the sources of finance it
requires (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       PLN-s Performance Under Previous Bank Group Lending.  The Bank Group
has provided $1,135 million through ten different loans and credits for power
generation/distribution facilities in and around Jakarta and in West and
Central Java. Specifically, three distribution projects (Credits 165 and 334,
and Loan 1259) have been approved for the rehabilitation and expansion



- 15 -
of the distribution facilities in the greater Jakarta area and seven power
generation projects (Credit 399, and Loans 1127, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and
1950) in West and Central Java have been undertaken to help PLN expand the
Java network. Past loans and credits also provided funds for various
consulting services for management studies, demand studies and feasibility
studies.
48.        Out of the ten projects four have been completed, two are nearing
completion, and four are in the early stages of construction. PLN's perfor-
mance in implementing these projects has been uneven at first but has signi-
ficantly improved later. The earlier distribution projects (Credits 165 and
334) were completed more than three years behind schedule. A Project
Performance Audit Report on these two projects, which was issued in November
1979, concluded that despite the delay in project completion (which in large
measure was attributed to the unfamiliarity of the Bank and the borrower/
beneficiary with each other's procedures), the projects made possible a
greater reliability of supply and many institutional and operational improve-
ments. In generation projects, the earliest project (Credit 399) covering
the first and second units at Muara Karang was completed about two years late;
the next (Loan 1127) for the third unit, less than one year late. Subsequent
generation projects at Muara Karang (Loan 1365) and Semarang (Loan 1513) are
about 4-6 months behind appraisal schedule; two projects at Suralaya (Loans
1708 and 1872), although still at an early stage, are also a few months in
arrears. The record of implementation of agreements reached in connection
with these operations has been satisfactory. PLN can be considered today as
a mature and reliable undertaking.
49.       The improvement in PLN's performance in project management is
however in danger of being negated by delays which are beginning to arise in
procurement as a result of new procedures introduced by the GOI in 1980.
These procedures affect all except the smallest contracts and experience is
similar in most other sectors in which the Bank is involved. A remedy is
being sought in the context of the ongoing Bank/GOI dialogue on project
execution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The Jabotabek Transmission and Distribution project is part of the
Java System Development Plan, formulated through earlier Bank loans to PLN and
recently updated. The plan calls for a total investment in transmission and
distribution of about $1,500 million by 1985 (1980 prices). The distribution
component is based on a feasibility report prepared in 1980 by SOFRELEC of
France. Planning for the transmission component has been carried out during
1980-1981 by PLN-s newly organized system planning organization. A Bank
mission appraised the project in March 1981, and negotiations were held in



- 16 -
Washington in September 1981; the Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Ir.
Abdul Kadir (DGEP). Supplementary data are in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 3468-IND) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives
51.       The main objectives of the project are to increase PLN's trans-
mission and distribution capacities, enable grid extensions to be made to
rural areas, and provide consultancy services for schemes which will enhance
the use of coal, develop an effective grid system and continue PLN's
institutional growth.
Project Description
52.       The project comprises:
(i) a distribution system for Jakarta and the regencies of Bogor,
Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek) in West Java involving
about 450 km of 20 kV cables, 760 km of 20 kV overhead lines,
1,336 substations and 800 pole-mounted transformers, about
5,300 km of new low voltage lines and some 320,000 service
connections;
(ii) a high-voltage (HV) system, complementary to (i) above,
involving five new sub-stations in Jakarta, 46 km of double-
circuit 150 kV cables and 980 MVA of transformers;
(iii)  engineering of the next base-load coal or multiple-fired thermal
power units in Java;
(iv)  engineering of the Extra High Voltage (EHV) Central-East
Java transmission line; and
(v)  management consultancy for further improvements in PLN's
financial planning and control systems.
Evolution of the Project
53.       Reinforcement and expansion of the distribution system of the
City of Jakarta - a densely populated (5 million) urban center covering
200 sq km - was carried out under the Bank's first two lending operations.
Its completion was followed by the fifth operation (Loan 1259 of 1976) for
extension of the distribution system to about 2,800 sq km of Jabotabek. This
project will be completed by 1981. Part (i) of the proposed project is
intended to extend electricity supply to both urban and rural areas of
Jabotebek-s 5,700 sq km (with a population of 10 million) and represents a



- 17 -
continuation of the Bank's development efforts in an important area of PLN-s
operations which accounts for about 40% of its electricity sales. SOFRELEC
carried out the feasibility study of requirements of the region during
1982-1990. The distribution component, for the period 1982-1985, is based on
the report on this study. SOFRELEC also pointed out the need for
complimentary reinforcements of the high voltage (150 kV/70 kV) system in the
Jabotabek region to meet the growth of demand. PLN has in the past been
primarily responsible for planning and implementation of schemes of high
voltage system expansion and it has done this successfully using consultants
only in some areas of specialization. The project component described in part
(ii) of para. 52 above, is based on detailed system studies carried out by PLN
and covered in its March 1981 "Report on reinforcement of the Jabotabek H.V.
system during 1982-85".
54.       The project component described in part (iii) of para. 52 above is
a further step in implementing the country's energy policy of utilizing coal
instead of oil for electricity which began with the Suralaya Thermal Power
Station project (ultimately 3,100 MW) under implementation in West Java with
Bank assistance through Loans 1708 and 1872. Two units each rated at 400 MW
are currently under construction at Suralaya. PLN is studying the feasi-
bility of installing a third unit of 400 MW at this site by 1987. A feasi-
bility study to establish a similar (ultimate 4,000 MW capacity) site in East
Java was initiated as part of the Bank's seventh operation in the electricity
sector (Loan 1513) and is now nearing completion; a site near Tuban has been
chosen. The first generating set at Tuban (400 MW) is required to be
commissioned in 1987. To achieve this, detailed engineering has to commence
early in 1982. GOI has requested Bank financing for the purpose. At
negotiations assurances were given by GOI that the sources of coal for the
mext base-load coal or multiple-fired thermal power units will be identified
by June 30, 1982, and that arrangements for mining and transport of coal
required will be implemented in time for their commissioning (Section 3.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       The first steps toward development in Java of an effective grid
system at 500 kV were taken during the Bank's eighth and ninth operations.
An 800 km line extending from West to Central Java is under construction,
scheduled for completion during 1983-84. The 300 km extension to East Java
is required by 1985. GOI has decided to use bilateral financing sources
for construction but has requested that the Bank finance the engineering
primarily to ensure uniformity in approach on the features of the EHV grid.
The project component described in part (iv) of para. 52 above provides for
this. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI and PLN will take all
necessary steps to construct the Central-East Java EHV line by December 31,
1985 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Implementation
56.       The project will be implemented by PLN during 1981-85.  The detailed
engineering of the project component described in part (i) of para. 52 above



- 18 -
(the distribution component), covering preparation of bid documents, evalua-
tion of bids and supervision of construction has started and will be carried
out entirely by PLN which has now acquired the necessary experience. The
construction organization built up during the past few years will be adequate
for this project. Detailed implementation and milestone schedules have been
prepared. Bid documents for the first lot of equipment were issued in July
1981 after review by the Bank. No major problems are foreseen in the
construction of this part of the project but progress will have to be
monitored by the Bank, particularly on procurement, as PLN will be
undertaking work entirely on its own for the first time (Section 2.07 of the
draft Project Agreement).
57.       The project component described in part (ii) of para. 52 above (the
150 kV high-voltage component) will be implemented by PLN with the assistance
of consultants in some specialized areas as in the past. The West Java
Transmission Project unit was set up for PLN's ongoing construction program
of 150 kV transmission lines, cables, and sub-stations (including the first
two gas-insulated substations). It will be responsible for construction of
the project component described in part (ii) of para. 52 above. The unit has
a dynamic experienced manager, and a nucleus of supporting staff; Preece,
Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the UK acts as the consultant to this unit. The
same organization pattern will be used to execute the new project. The Bank
has no objection to this arrangement. PLN has started to mobilize the
required consulting services immediately to meet the construction program.
PCR's engineering services covers 360 man-months at an average man-month
cost, including basic salary, overheads and fees, international travel and
overseas allowance for resident field engineers, of $10,000. It is based on
rates anA costs prevailing it present. No difficulties are expected in the
implementation of this project component. The land required for the five
new substation sites has been acquired and a guarantee from the DKI Jakarta
has been obtained that PLN will be given right of way for the proposed cable
routes.
58.       The detailed engineering, as described in part (iii) of para. 52
above, of the next base-load coal or multiple-fired thermal power units in
Java up to the stage of preparation of bid documents will be carried out.
It is estimated to require about 400 man-months of expatriate effort at a
man-month cost of about $8,000. The estimate also provides for about
128 man-months of local consultants at an average cost of about $1,500 per
man-month.
59.       Concerning part (iv) of para. 52 above, PLN proposes to use
consultants primarily for construction supervision of the EHV line extension.
About 70 man-months of expatriate effort will be required at a cost of about
$7,000 per man-month. Local consultants will also be used at an average cost
of $1,500 per man-month. The management consultancy work under part (v) of
the project is estimated to require 45 man-months of expatriate effort at an
average man-month cost of $13,000.



- 19 -
Costs and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at $319.4 million, of which $206.0
(64%) is in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of $170.0 million will
finance 53% of total project cost. The remaining part of the foreign exchange
cost will be met by GOI. Detailed bills of quantities of equipment required
have been prepared. Basic prices have been determined from material and
construction costs for ongoing transmission and distribution projects at
levels prevailing in November 1980. Physical contingencies of 5% have been
allowed for. Price contingencies were estimated as follows: on foreign costs
at 9% for FY82, 8.5% for FY83, and 7.5% for FY84 and 85; and on local cost at
18% for FY82, 14% for FY83 and 10% for FY84 and 85.
61.       This project is a subcomponent of PLN's 1982-85 Transmission and
Distribution Program of $1.4 billion. The foreign exchange requirements of
this program amount to $778 million of which the proposed Bank loan would
provide $170 million, $40 million would be forthcoming from ADB and $58
million from commercial credits. It is expected that the GOI would seek other
commercial credits or bilateral/multilateral sources for the remainder.
62.       As in previous operations, the proposed Bank loan would be to the
GOI which will onlend the proceeds to PLN on terms equivalent to those of the
Bank loan; the foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI. Signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       All equipment and materials to be financed through the proposed
loan (other than poles for the distribution expansion project) will be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. As some participation by Indonesian manufacturers is likely, a
15% preference on the c.i.f. price, or prevailing duties, if lower, will be
applicable. For economy it has been proposed that the procurement of con-
crete poles be arranged through local competitive bidding in accordance
with GOI procedures. Adequate competition is expected from recently estab-
lished and growing local industries to obtain prices which are expected to
be significantly lower than the alternative of importing either steel or
concrete poles under ICB.
64.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against the following items:
(a) equipment (except poles) - 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost (excluding any identifiable
tax) for locally manufactured goods and 65% of the total expenditures for
imported goods procured locally; (b) concrete poles - 80% of the
expenditures, representing the estimated indirect foreign cost, and (c)
consultants services - 100% of expenditures. No disbursements will be made
for expenditures prior to loan signing.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
65.       The project will increase the capacity of PLN's supply facilities
substantially in a crucially important area of its operations. The project
itself will have an internal economic rate of return of at least 18%. There
are no unusual risks.
Ecology
66.       No environmental problems arise in connection with the project.
In congested areas the 150 kV system and the medium-voltage system will be
underground. The 150 substations will be of the compact gas-insulated type
appropriate in such locations and medium-voltage transformers will be located
in kiosks.  In less congested areas both the medium-voltage and low-voltage
systems will be overground.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PLN, and the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project
Agreements whUch are re_erred to in Section III of Annex III, an additional
condition of effectiveness of the Loan (para. 62 above) includes that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and PLN.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
October 22, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AKEA (THOUSAND 50. )  INDONESlA   REFERENCE   GROU PS   (WEIGH TED   AVgRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSBAND S.1                                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)' a_
TOTAL            1919.3                                             MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      2t6.4                    1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA    PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PbR CAPITA (ULS)                         80.0         140.0            370.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENEKGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1        128.4            237.1              499.4                  1150.6
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        14.6         17.1              19.8              17.3                    40.8
POPULAT1ON PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                    219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              49.3         60.5             74.4              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           355.9        417.9            487.3              360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
5-14 YRS.                                40.7         44.0             40.8               37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                                56.2         53.5             56.3               59.2                    56.7
65 YKS. AND ABOVE                          3.1          2.5               2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                     2.1          2.0              2.3                2.1                     2.3
UKBAN                                     3.7          3.6              4.0                3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            46.7         40.8              36.2              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            24.8         17.7              13.3              10.2                     7.5
GROSS KEPKODUCTION RATE                     3.0          2.8               2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)              ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          0.2             27.1               20.4                    44.1
FOOU AND NUTRITION
INLtX OF FUOD) PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-100)                 93.0        102.0            103.0              107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                          89.0         92.0            105.0               98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 41.0         41.0             47.0               56.9                    62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               6.0          6.0              6.0               14.2                    19.7
CHlLb (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            31.2         20.4              13.7              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LiFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           39.0         46.7             53.0               57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEP
THOUSAND)                                 159.0        126.0             120.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAVE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                      ..          3.0             12.0               30.1                    45.9
URBAN                                      *'         10.0             35.0               65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                      ..          1.0              6.0               20.1                    34.4
ALCCSS TO FXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TUIAL                                      ..         12.0              15.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                                      ..         50.0             60.0               71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                      ..          4.0              5.0                4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSIClAN                46778.7      26498.5          13644.4             3857.7                  4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                ..       7672.8           8851.9             6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  1364.1       1644.6           1606.0             1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                                   251.8           ..            697.3              322.3                   579.6
RURAL                                      ..           ..           3159.0             5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..           ..              22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
rjlAL                                     4.4          4.8
URBAN                                     4.9          5.3
RURAL                                     4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..          1.5
URBAN                                      ..          1.6
RURAL                                      ..          1.3
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UW_LLINGS )
TUlAL                                      ..           ..
URbAN                                      ..           ..
ACRAL                                      ..           ..



- 2 2 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)r
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASLA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0             22.0              38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                      10.0         21.0            27.0              34.6/as                58.4
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0            18.0              18.0/as                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (C OF SECONDARY)       20.0         22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                39.0         29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                               14.0        13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0        56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0         2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..          ..             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..          ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8        66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7        35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                      5'4.1       49.5             5C.i              51.5                   49.8
FLMALE                                    20.0        21.6             21.1              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        33.7/c           23.5
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..        52.07W           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         6.87             6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        17.37W           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0                ..                  249.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..             98.0                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



-2 3 -NEX 
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL ISOICATORS
Notes:  Alt!,ough the  aaer drw   rnsnrm    eealyjde  tens   uhoiaiead rlale   isoudaa  h                                               a  tha, they onou  Ininer
nainll   opaal  hams   ftelc   isanadtddfntosedcoctt   adb   itrn   onneai   oletn   the data.  Tn _oh   _c I_
thte,ostlcdac  h  odn   f  aoide   nIat   rns,edcerneie  etI  ajrdftt_a
Th   eeec    rusar   l  h   oecaty  ea             dtesbetconr   n                         rotr    ru    ihsmeot  ihroeaeIcm   toIh   onr   ru
of thIy1_I   le-sb  otcoor    nac fo 'Capitldtartldia -10 Enoters", trou  dhleftf--tnoaboit                    .r c  anbOdLe..   -at-a-       osnloin  fsro
Tna      oa   uft ace erwa ooptao Lore a        an.u.n etr.                                irha...,lg end rural)t dIotde  by thier roaceod h,-sIlrliyh      ytohd
tie crp,pnoe.nrhtedkthngren   rt  I   alw .1979. dot.                                               el  Ioti  ceters   fomitl  aeI   esthiaasut   eronoly.of.
coeindted., hy  ecieoononebo  sheio  ast yoed twkiie(97-1hae;lI,adndcl  etr.opytaetyeafa    yapyoca   hrh 
1970,RE end 1909 :data.                                                                             ed tol ewisnat, irs  nint,ec)othofe   npnln   con
fro   hosptwi  diide  by thei..    Enobliher  f  eA.  -d. Z          y_-
POPOLOTIOS iota liTal. Sdl-ATiiOIittdd.                                                                       -I  -pl:%,h.....                   heIl
-11difrn b ..                  hdLdefntoso   reaenm y Afetoaaakl      fdn                         ndternbmal.Ahadro  lodgnr nap obmay not heInlode   i
19700  coud neie9  196.  97, ad  97ddaa.th   ho .et.  for                                                                  . ttnaicaifpurpoam.)hihf-M
Potulenio in fee  dill -  oroent ppulatio    rjoio    aee hae.n10                      e   f  esn   e   oni  alubndn ua  ocupedcounttow
tIotati ppntn byaeadsaedtetmraiynd fenlyrae.deeLig.-                                                         repe iboehy anlignnidet,                estntnotcen
esters for tenth  m MdYra_te    . I. a   -mohon   the    .lyeneis 960tusing   denid ft7     Hof  oa,mOn   r  orideilgos                          iey
Stationery         960   170 -eoaie-nan   meaty pd usio.  hrei  o  rnb -c             .           ri.r shh.w. -.l     tonal mae n  fisGos    otl,sleso   n
the httb fet  .a..        ln  h    ~Sae  adea   h   g   tutr  r-srisn   fater  an th  pinn   mont e:1                                                    pecetae   of. rercIn--
sent lifse.pl.                                                                                    eucninyqurnntlestfor ahr  o  aprve  piacyinriton
Test setnnr  coouleiif   is:~ rea.e   - 1bl..  .    75Y- The.etat   ttneypplnu        p            r...Ide   gdrarlI.,vumionael, orteat Isr tominig  lo..ttuct innsfor  upi
fotnistion tesaito                                                                             secluded.i,  ,    d  .l1  ..Iil.  ee 'ily
only  1960,y 197  and 1978 .dnra.  IfP..i.-il                        f - iy               MCTONi-eae  ei     rmr.sdstnwoTtlsner   toidi
PorLatio ..has...l.  Inuar   I   .e.oa it   Ch ldrn(y 1  peers),.lt.L   sorhir-age 1t -            prier  ed  ecndr  -ole .diied y1 uner  of                 dahr  inth
th4  iyear     . I)q, end retred  (6   persan  uer  a  pInd oneofmi-ya  p.p. coresponIng   le els.                            l,pltel  
lanton; 1960, 1970, ead 1979.  dane.L.  d-l.. .                                         iitltrcLaebatn)-tnrn    dltsdebt  noh red~  ad ariSe
Lbralepnoirneth, tanI.-I  feil -ltta Lpd-tannualgreth, care  of                                    y. totltid  dspaer Ledo tota adoff tIppltion  age ,iT yeasad e
yaso popoisoinos fur itlO-Od,ith 19..6I6-70,-  -andte1970-79.-
lenonafor195-6h  iCOl-Ot1.en   i90-9                     'Peasme CreSer hosed o1tstw)    Pssngr  ar  capis  et
populnh,o yNh, 1970,  end  1979.lfdI.    ffriit    ..L dat.                                    al ier   eh-hotlne.            i                  .p.Id.    y; I'l
trd_enL    aeSe  hned   -Ana   etsprtosnso  aid-yar                                           P ditteoiveraq bee  thousan   roueIon) -.L   il  typesd of  nciner  fr   d
populaion; 196.p197. and 197 L-date.            y- h.                  p. .i.                        . bn idtast  to.. gsoers p--io pe. hosn 1  -h pt-i eiot; e-nclad.s on-p.i
Oil6Sit   19e0es .usually  fineteen  anera-e ending in-190,i197.,.add.979..meatyo-anTtts aboIte:dIlinensiIg
64eyiinfianoidoa-isat   (65erceor      d-l                      I ofidrideys)Ps..toe t pripad     ircouaopeeadin leel rnargitainfT    ess
mameLe. of9ohil-hea7io  age (1-79 6 tea..     h   s   it-cnoidorsn                              ewatas Cio Le-io   (oarth              ...o pulaton  -t Shone the l.ad      or
FOl tLLhetOTM.ITtle                                                                             toh..bed f'dai..ly   i  i  appears n7.po las_ Sotnse.asek
te  es -ecadd)-tAggregte. peiuf     oo  echcunr  isL...   F-   basd o                  LAbO l P    IIIL;OCt,                       Y..   y-b.-PL.l  
netorlavrat podoertros  eihts fi_-5,197,Ind1979 dsia.                                   Totl tabo  PoeceI: (toubne  -'.  ILEmcll   cie  esn,  uid
tiiyet   . day. .Anieble         --pios   conpeta g O Imes9i poutn,  ipo bs                    w   oprbe   9g   91ed17   aa
enpoonPI    sod-   -t-          _ changS.instink .tIe   Aupp ..e Inld  seib- Ifeed, - sees,    e -is  we-et p- them...p pshor tonne        T as  er..eg  of--    tota b.leor foc.
IfubithitIsses1d-in food-p-esing, and   ases ..In d-ilyripuni.. L.aqoire-.                   gar...i-1 ponooli n pe     Labor. force p.-in_emtg.  fr.    y  butig  n
hoisehold  level  lShi-bT, tITO  end 1977 data                                    1970t and -Li  L ON  date.Y.,  If
Per1 c fole i=eapo ltn   ro9toi  (gram  rety d)   -  roei  content- of pert. cita               ,:, Paricnaiwo  ansirj.ers - thota.u al,and       tamaei  )   S-  h.e-etnipa lowo
ne   upl   ffodpr a_t_nsppyo  fo   sdeieLa   hvs   s                                           anv_yeearcseeda   otl    al,ed  eee  ao  frea
v   dtmis  o   l   outiseeaia            y  SApoid w.iimmpren                                         I       Ydfnis,el   tAfml   oplto    fnil. agsrepcinei_Ly;
sibnace  f  0 gas  o  taniproei  pe  dy  nd  0  ram  e  aisa  ad  160  190.an.199       .ame  .Tes  arMbse  on  t'  pati ipto   rates
pole  proein,of nioh  0 grme sowidhe atmeiprotin.   heseesn-           reisot iog age-sen strctuee  of tbn. pouaionP,Iadln   ieted
Cild leas -1-6nd t aiy   Pate beer Cltiheumand)  p:- nLy deth  par g tooseod in                Pecedce fbl  P-ivt..coa(ohi   ehadhid                         erndb   ihs
iwie  dat  deie   fics laetbles  1960  Li97   an  17           dt.  ff..uaebldd
et bIrth; 1960. 1970 and 1979 daoa.                                           and should he intnrprened with nenaidarsbieoaoninn.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  ..~ i
ofnterel.irnlSetsI Owenthosn)-ana  deahsofinfntlods  one  ear                             OstiaLe AIl    olre P err  lema Lefnii05 -pe  reIna    -oranland rtL   -
of age             l pee: d.   thouandlOo  biths.ib lat  poare  inom    leve  is7 that icm   eelhm                                                            nfh      oi
Aiest taelae fI_eo   f  nulton-mel  thn..                    aa      e-                    irtosleeot  dierF 1   (.l.t   1.0 plus   esenilno-food  trsv Ite baot  is-no
her of     ..       h peoleI Ioal   urban   an  Nuret   mothi. rF-ebesrs  S                      fodbe
asteritipp1  fitideLe fteatpd surfangneteI.... orun .treaedbuni e.Rcoseiwna                  tAti-sted. (aisn .v Pnsn Ib-rfem    Leve f(il,pe  c  ofalt,y h-oting madrua -
sanr   -uc  a .thee fro  pyFOtb.roed    otiolsy,spings, sod  eseitr     1 w lls) asihieesniv p neetygb incom  lee  isb one-hir  of60  1onr7 g  per 197     pits
percetage  cflthe roastr  populations.                 L  Ieo banrey  uli                        eroa-irmao  vsconr. fos l.em   l s deined   .. fr-nt-inura
fondt  or stadpenbote   nrbet tan20  meters from a be11useg mayetII           be                nnde dleigh tadjustmen for hgher coto          Inin  in or lbs soef.,c;
reasonable acess1 woldipl6 in1        hehoswieit5sbr  of70the dh1usadold                       and7 reral     dsoa.    fpouain(nbnadrua)eoar a.l
lubadf api   tpa.Lubn  aNet  rural) Ifefd by secrete dispnsalasl,.Z                                     L,r.,d                                 -          I1
rh   nlsoinma   isoa, obeb orwihnat byrUeeAsp,, olf hesanetreeIengtoandenIaf  Omfa bivisi                                                                              y
lee insosiletters.                                                                                                                    Stat 1961~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.ed  t. 
pnelatio  weei        I Phsiiahn-  Puplai-   divde by tom-e  of.t    heoian   physP.Pi-t.     d    . 
n svuLotdenase dia   oe Ifa  nveeo  lensi..d2   l-I                                           -f-.t.                                Il
prolttn eetseina P            Ire     Peusthe  dLIndd,LP.. Op neby ar L nf .racThindEis.~'l    .i. Mi    l...i.Il-1                                        d6    dI
Nsald an ldfemale       6165 grdut 70eas  peonds  sot7 sag, end                                     theteesot  ures_



-24 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population          147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                    Annual growth rate (Z)
(million US$ at                               (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                      Actual                  _                 Projected
Indicator                              1979            1975    1976   1977   1978  1979         1980    1981        1982    1983   1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          49,211             5.0    6.9    8.8       6.8    4.9       7.1     7.2     7.3     7.3     7.4    7.4
Agriculture                      14,678             0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2      2.2     3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5    3.5      3.5
Industry                         16,003             5.6   11.1    14.2      5.9    5.5      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0    9.0      9.0
Services                         18.531            10.1     5.9   12.0      8.9    6.9    8.5       8.5      8.5    8.5      8.5    8.5
Consumption                         34,686            6.9    6.4      7.9    8.5    5.8   12.4         8.7     7.8    8.1      7.6    6.8
Gross investment                    11,103           14.6     6.0   16.0    15.0       5.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Exports of GNFS                     14,788           -9.7   12.5   22.4       0.1     8.9   -2.8       5.6    8.7      9.1    0.0      2.1
Imports of GNFS                     11,366            7.9    8.1   22.2    15.6   10.6  10.1          13.1    14.6   15.4    2.6    5.6
Gross national savings              12,400          -19.7    12.0   33.3   -2.1    43.3   19.3         7.2     9.6    9.0      7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                             166     190    214      232     309      368    423      473     519     569    621
Exchange rate                                         415    415    415       442      623     625     625     625     625     625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                             Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /b                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975    1980   1985    1990          1960-70     1970-75      1975-80      1980-85      1985-90
Gross domestic product         100     100     100     100     100      100         3.9           8.4          6.9          7.3         8.2
Agriculture                   54      47      32      29      24      19          2.7           4.1          3.4         3.5          3.5
Industry                      14      18      34      33      36      41          5.2          12.0         9.1          9.0         11.2
Services                      32      35      35      38      40      40          4.8           9.7         8.4          8.5          8.0
Consumption                   91      89      79      74      76      77          4.1           8.4         8.3          7.7          8.7
Gross investment               8      14      20      24      29      3i          4.8          18.3        10.8         12.0         10.0
Exports of GNFS               13      13      23      33      29      23          3.6           9.2          8.7         5.3          3.3
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -30    -34    -32                3.2          22.1        14.0         10.0          6.8
Gross national savings         8       9      17      24      25      22          6.1          23.1         19.3         9.5          5.9
As % of GDP
1960            1970            1975            1979
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                               11.7            10.1            10.5            20.6
Current expenditures                                                          14.0              8.4             9.3            12.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                    -2.3            +1.6             +7.1            +8.1
Capital expenditure                                                            n.a.             5.0            10.7            12.4
Foreign financing                                                               0.2             3.5             3.7             4.3
1960-70          1970-75              1975-80          1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                  4.5              7.6                  6.3               7.7              8.1
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                       2.4              5.1                  3.9               5.3              5.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                   2.9             16.0                 15.0              11.0             10.7
ICOR                                                        2.2              2.2                  3.4              3.5               3.7
Marginal savings rate                                       0.30             0.48                 0.68              0.36             0.24
Import elasticity                                           1.2              2.8                  0.7              1.4               0.8
/a At market prices.
7r; Projected years at constant prices. Owing to favorable terms of trade developments the resource gap's share of GDP at
current prices is significantly less than at constant prices.
/c Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



ANNEX I
-25-                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  USS365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
Exports of goods and services              7,425   9,384  11,056  11,650  17,797  23,320  27,624  33,600  40,645  49,391  79,726
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            7,283   9,213  10,861  11,353  17,488  22,414  26,375  31,967  38,555  46,430  75,623
Imports of goods and services             -8,279 -10,186 -11,746 -12,785 -15,813 -20,407 -24,862 -30,398 -37,365 -46,967 -88,148
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.          -7,362  -8,807 -10,150 -10,907 -13,579 -17,569 -21,769 -27,028 -33,573 -42,230 -79,790
Net transfers                                 75       61       66       46       52       76     100       50       50       50       50
Cuirrent account balance                    -779    -741    -624  -1,109   2,046   2,989   2,862   3,252   3,329   2,473  -8,372
Private direct investment                    454      287      285      271     217      170      170      200      250      300      500
MLT Loans (net) /b                         1,800   1,895   1,131        660      604   1,768   1,788   1,857   1,579   1,273   3_316
Official - source (net)                    514      836      752     771      515   1,128   1,644   1,949   1,912   1,646          947
Private  - source (net)                  1,287   1,059       379    -110       89      640      144      -92    -333    -373   2,391
Other capital                             -1,839    -442    -140        888  -1,075  -2,417  -2,204  -1,511  -1,267    -738   1,368
Change in reserves                           364  -1,001    -651    -708  -1,690  -2,510  -2,616  -3,798  -3,892  -3,308   3,188
Net official reserves                        556   1,557   2,208   2,916   4,606   7,116   9,732  13,530  17,422  23,981  25,991
Reserves as months imports                   0.8      1.8      2.3      2.7      3.5     4.2      4.7      5.3      5.6      6.1      3.5
Memorandum Items
Net exports of goods and
services of the oil sector            3,138   3,710   4,445   4,010   6,974  10,577  12,295  12,466  16,523  20,481  27,029
Net foreign assets of the
banking system                           556   1,557   2,623   3,372   6,906  11,078  15,900  21,297  26,489  35,209  35,885
Total reserves /c as months imports    0.8          1.8      2.7      3.2     5.2      6.5      7.7      8.4      8.5      9.0     4.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                      2,152   2,332   1,956   1,641   1,945   2,758
Concessional Loans                         503      488     442      494      445      968
DAC                                      378     365      354      429      405      830
OPEC                                       -        -       27      29        5       22
IDA                                      107      99       49       29       30       56
Other                                     18       23      12        6        6       59
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,649   1,844  _1,514   1148   1,501   1,790
Official export credits                   15     267      221      305       88      111
IBRD                                      57      157     191      168      199      355
Other multilateral                         3       11      16       12       46      100
Private - source                      1,574   1,409   1,086        663   1,168   1,223
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d    8,014  10,018  11,671  13,128  13,326  15,04n
Official - source                   5,006   5,913   7,077   8,434   8,512   9,657
Private  - source                   3,008   4,105   4,594   4,694   4,814   5,383
Undisbursed debt                      3,703   4,533   4,481   5,832   7,514   8,029
Debt Service
Total service payments                   517      775   1,266   1,463   2,107   1,804
Interest                               165     318      441      485      772      815
Payments as % exports of goods
& services /e                         7.0      8.0    11.5    12.6    11.8         7.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(7)                                     8.3      7.5      6.3      7.3      6.6      8.8
Official - source                        6.5      7.0     5.5      4.7      4.9      5.5
Private  - source                        9.3     8.1      8.6    10.8       8.9    13.5
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 12.7    14.9    20.5    21.2    19.9    18.1
Official - source                       21.3    20.2    23.9    30.1    25.7    23.5
Private  - source                        8.1      8.3    10.4      9.3    11.4    10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                         30.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                        64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest duie within first year                                                                        4.0
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.
7-e Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Eight Loans and twenty-nine Credits fully disbursed   426.51  458.43             -
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        0.63
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.78
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        3.51
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        8.74
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        3.99
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        0.66
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       10.67
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       10.45
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       20.37
869     19I9   Polytechnic                                         49.00       46.56
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.01
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       51.51
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       11.34
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                     45.00       42.82
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                45.00       42.03
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                   42.00       41.64
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                       30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 1.59
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                21.02
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                 6.81
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 5.49
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                42.58
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                11.98
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                16.35
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                 5.96
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                 5.63
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                11.22
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                     9.64
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                 9.09
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                12.20
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00                 1.48



_ 27 7
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                                116.00             38.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00              8.96
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00             12.66
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.00             44.17
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.00             15.08
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                   1.49
1472    1977   Second Population                           24.50             15.42
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.00              8.34
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.00             38.76
1513    1978   Seventh Power                               94.00             58.03
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.00            125.47
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.00             24.59
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                  62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00             62.39
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00             42.97
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.00             44.33
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00             39.38
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              123.20            109.69
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.00             30.35
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00            154.07
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.00             34.31
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III           99.00             84.43
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00            113.91
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV            42.00             40.81
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                   35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                    35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                        253.00            245.16
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project               46.00             46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project              45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                        250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                   22.00              22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project            43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V           161.00             161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                  106.00



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,729.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.62
Total                                        3,705.87  930.18
of which has been repaid                     -82.63   -2.65
Total now outstanding                        3,623.24  927.53
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,622.21  927.53
Total undisbursed                            2,134.59  346.03   2,480.62
ja Prior to excnxange adjustment.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles              2.5      0.8         3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                 2.0      0.5         2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0          -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.4      0.7         6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3         2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9          -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.         -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6         3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5         6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                  -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2         1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9          -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2         5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material            48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                             114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  73.7       3.4       77.1
Total held by IFC                                    41.1      14.3       55.4
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   63.1            0.9       64.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 1, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                            6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                        9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)             13-14
Rural Development (946)             -                                     14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                      16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                             18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                  21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                       21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                           22
Nutrition (1373)                                                          23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                    24
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                 24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                   25
Ports (1337)                                                              26
Tourism (479)                                                               26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                    26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.  The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 32-                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have beor completed.  Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed.  Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



_ 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI s skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to:  (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage; budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



37
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980:  Effective Date:  August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised.  Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation.  It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



- 38                          ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Not yet Effective;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
This loan has not yet been made effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putib
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed.  Extension materials ;e being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



- 39 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1L4 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule. The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily.  On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been pubLponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date; August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



- 42 -                         ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are'
commissioned and a national skill standards s-stem is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



4 3                       ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule.  Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



_ 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage.  The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $iu9 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project:  (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



_ 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI's budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCi:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



- 47 -                      ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 48 -                     ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed.  This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule.  The causes for delay are:  (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGIi should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate
the full effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies
which are underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
- 52 -                         Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about 1.4
million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in Surabaya
have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs. The project is
expected to be completed by December 1982.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
-Zained in the auove two uities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



_ 53                           ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
ELEVENTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project   : One year
(b)  Project prepared by                   : SOFRELEC of France
and PLN
(c)  First presented to the Bank            : March 1980
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission  : March 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations             : September 1981
(f)  Planned Effectiveness                  : March 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI will:
(a) annually review with the Bank PLN's recommended development
plan and associated financial forecast and financing plan, and
facilitate access by PLN to appropriate sources of finance
(para. 46); and
(b) ensure that sources of coal for the next base-load coal or
multiple-fired thermal units in Java will be identified by
June 30, 1982 and that arrangements for mining and transport of
coal required will be implemented in time for commissioning of
these units (para. 54).



- 55 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2
PLN will:
(a) as part of its annual planning procedures, institute a ten-year
financial forecast based on its proposed development plan, test
each proposed development plan for financial feasibility, develop
a financing plan covering the last five years of the forecast
period and ensure that its recommended development plan and
associated financial forecast and financing plan are reviewed by
the GOI and the Bank (para. 46).
GOI and PLN:
(a) to take all necessary steps to construct the Central-East Java
EHV line by December 31, 1985 (para. 55).






IBRD 12453 R
HAILAND                                                                                                                                                                         li5-
8.1d. A..h                                                                                                                                                                                                     INOON ESIA
O_                                                                                                                                              H L PI                               PUBLIC GENERATING  FACILITES :BY AREAS
South        Cheno        5eo           RUI OR
NGAPORE
A H
J                                      Wm pi-q                                                                                                                                  ERA                0 'r        c             c 6, a  n
K  A   L  I  Al/ A  N   T  A  N
v
VI
RM4*N &&A
U I A T R A
R/4/V 14YA
Z
mv
a    v  0                    a        uio  P-4-w
JAKARTA                                                                                                 a n               5e o
A V A
ADMA
W, VA
xiii
OAII        somo*4
xii
A
nd, a n           C e 0 n                                                                                                                                                   300     400     5w
100  3go  410  "'D  6    'q"
100-                        iu                         110-                                                                                                                                          135-                       140.






r- - - - -19rs. gP - ,;- t g . , . icr8RD 15652
, S P    w AIA   R   A  !               =       X                                                                                                                              INDONESIA
ELEVENTH POWER PROJECT
JAVA
JABOTABEK  TRANSMISSiON  AND DISTRIBUTION
f,~         -      $999919.    FKF5594                       JAV            54
I   Rl~~~~~kvblur>s  >  1  j  <;g  ...  _.___ 1rF1^V2 (// PLTSWLF1blLAVAI/nUM8EE9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F/ P19WIL,F19F'19F9f59
r X  _    _.   \ t   \   I   - t   *   0  N   u86X                      _  .   _  _                                           i   V IL A Y H  O X  215T94g W 1  V > A 9 T 5 99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WIL V A   O   S 95   BA I  K 9 F 5 95 55
\ L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iv _S10qr
)AF.19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'F-~~~~~~~~~~~~tA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
.,FF_. B~ ~-~                                            o         ClvalA KILN  < Fp                         F~9 A V A
WEST  JAVA                          \F       ,    CF/VTIAL    JAVA                                                                    F
4     XIV                   \,,                                                                           , t5           naa  Paqm>T5R8t                    Pm
hr                                                                                                                 /~~~~~~~~/
FAS'T  JAVA
F r  -9FF            F1  A             A   /I



