OFFICIAL            LOAN NUMBER 2056 IND
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Eleventh Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2056 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         /), 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO   RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter
called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
PLN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PLN, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to PLN on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligazions hereinafter set torth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in the engineering,
design and supervision of construction of Parts B, C, D and E of
the Project, as well as in the carrying out of the organizational
changes referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, PLN shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
PLN, such employment to made in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular


﻿-3-
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
PLN, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
PLN and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.
(e) Upon the award by PLN of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
Section 2.06. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01 (a) PLN shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry out its operations, all in accordance with sound engi-
neering, administrative, financial and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) In order to improve its operational efficiency, PLN
shall implement plans to attain specific performance targets,
including a target on the reduction in system losses, to be agreed
between PLN and the Bank from time to time.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other
properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or
in the conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as required
make a.A net._asat i repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions for, including self-
insurance, satisfactory to the Bank, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. PLN shall: (i) take steps to improve the
capability of its power market survey units at Pusat and Wilayah
levels to update the various existing consultant studies and to
compile necessary data for the islands other than Java; and (ii)
improve its central system planning unit at Pusat level to
identify potential system bottlenecks in advance and to ensure


﻿-5-
that its power systems continue to be adequate to meet the
increasing demand.
Section 3.05. In order to ensure a steady increase in its
share of electricity supply from fiscal year 1980/81 to fiscal
year 1985/86, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank annually,
for its review, PLN's customer connection program for each fiscal
year and shall implement such program thereafter.
Section 3.06. PLN shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that the contruction of the transmission line referred to in Part
D of the Project is completed not later than December 31, 1985.
ARTICLE TV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PLN and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. For the purposes of Sections 4.04, 4.05, and
4.06 of this Agreement:
(a)  the term "capital expenditures" means any expenditure
incurred on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest
charged to construction;
(b) the term "funds from internal sources" means the differ-
ence between:


﻿-6
(i) the sum of gross revenues, cash consumer contribu-
tions in aid of construction, net non-operating
income, and any other cash inflows other than
funds for financing capital expenditures; and
(ii)  the sum of all expenses of operation, including
maintenance and administration (excluding deprecia-
tion and other non-cash operating charges),
interest and other charges on debt (excluding
interest financed under a loan contract), repayment
of loans (including sinking fund payments, if any),
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash
distributions of surplus, and any other cash
outflows other than capital expenditures;
(c) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by PLN, includ-
ing debt assumed or guaranteed by PLN;
(d) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
agreement or cont,act, on the date and to the extent that it is
drawn down pursuan. to such loan agreement or contract, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(e) the term "equity" means PLN's capital, retained earn-
ings, surplus and reserves (including any revaluation reserve but
excluding any reserve allocated to cover specific liabilities);
(f) the term "'net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, adjusted to take account of PLN's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating and administrative expenses
and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision covering
adequate depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
and
(g)  the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall from time to time take all such measures as shall be
required to produce, during consecutive three-year periods from


﻿-7-
its fiscal years 1980/81 through 1984/85, funds from its internal
sources as contribution to the capital expenditures at such levels
as shall be agreed with the Bank, and for periods from fiscal year
1985/86 and thereafter, the level of such funds shall be equiva-
lent to not less than 30% of its capital expenditures.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
shall at all times maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than
60:40.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed for
financing the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall
be not less than 1.3 times the maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debts, including the debt to
be incurred.
(b) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 4.07. PLN shall, as part of its annual planning
procedures for fiscal year 1982/83 and subsequent fiscal years,
(i) institute a 10-year financial forecast based on its proposed
development plan; (ii) test each proposed development plan for
financial feasibility; (iii) develop a financing plan covering the
first 5 years of the forecast period which will specify the
quantum of external funding and the appropriate mix of equity and
debt, and, to the extent possible, identify potential financial
sources; and (iv) ensure that its recommended development plan and
associated financial forecast and financing plan are jointly
reviewed and adopted by its Board and that such plans and fore-
casts will be furnished to and discussed with the Borrower and the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify PLN thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Jl. Trunojoyo
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta Selatan
Indonesia


﻿-9 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
PLNPST                            47156 PLNPST IA
Jakarta                           47248 PLNPST IA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PLN may be taken or executed by the
President Director or such other person or persons as the
President Director shall designate in writing, and PLN shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/9CT- ,-  Regional Vic  resident
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By
A t orized Re esentative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA    Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, PLN shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. PLN shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 11 -
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group lt bid in such further comparison .is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 12 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the   first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in


﻿- 13 -
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, PLN shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    -t    day ofJ  DA/ , 198 J.
FOR SECRETARY


