Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11454
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter              0.39 inches
1 m - meter             =      3.28 feet
1 mn3 -cubic meter      =      264 US gallons
1 1 - liter             =      0.26 US gallons
1 bbl - barrel          =      42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram         =      2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer        =      0.62 miles
1 km2 _ square kilometer-      0.39 square miles
1 t - ton               =      2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt         =      1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt         =      1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour           1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour    =      1 million KWh
ABBREVIATIONS
EIGS        Ethiopian Inst. of Geological Surveys
GOE         Government of Ethiopia
IDA         International Development Association
MME         Ministry of Mines and Energy
OGEPCO      Oil & Gas Exploration Project
Coordinating Office
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PSA         Production Sharing Agreement
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SPEE        Soviet Petroleum Exploration Expedition
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ethiopia
Petroleum Exploration Promotion and Geothermal Reconnaissance Project
(Credit 1386-ET)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Ethiopia - Petroleum Exploration Promotion and Geothermal Reconnaissance Project
(Credit 1386-ET)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.
While delayed by organizational changes and global market factors, this
technical assistance project achieved its major objectives, in terms of new
exploration contracts signed with foreign oil companies and the production of
studies to evaluate the country's natural gas and geothermal potential.
Accordingly, the project is rated satisfactory.
The Calub gas field potential for c omercial exploration was confirmed by
the project and a substantial training program was completed. However, the oil
price drop in 1986 dried up international interest in exploration and civil
unrest led to suspension of ongoing exploration. Project sustainability remains
uncertain as continued exploration by oil companies will depend on security and
other country factors.
The Project Completion Report is satisfactory. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
PREFACE .j...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . .1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background   .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . .                    2
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .                      4
Implementation of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .                      4
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    5
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
Bank Performance   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Borrower Performance   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Consulting and Contracting Services . . . . . . . . .                     8
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   8
Contracting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . .                      11
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     11
Project Activities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     12
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      12
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     13
Project Results  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     15
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     15
Lessons to be Learned ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  16
COMMENTS ON THE ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART I  . . . . . . .                       17
COMMENTS ON BORROWER'S PART II   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      18
COMMENTS ON INFORMATION CONTAINED IN PART III . . . . . . .                       19
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . .                     20
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . . . . .                     20
Project Timetable ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
Credit Disbursements   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      22
Status of Covenants  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
Allocation of Credit Proceeds  . . . . . . . . . . . .                     23
Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      24
Use of Bank Resources  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    24
Missions  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for a Petroleum
Exploration Promotion and Geothermal Reconnaissance Project in Ethiopia,
for which Credit 1386-ET in the amount of SDR 6,500,000 was approved on
June 14, 1983. The loan was closed on March 31, 1991, although
disbursement on all categories, except the Resident Advisor, was stopped
on September 30, 1990. three years behind schedule. The credit was 99
percent disbursed and the last disbursement was on May 31, 1991. A
total of US$1,300,000 was made available through a UNDP Petroleum
Promotion project which was executed by IDA at the same time as the IDA
Credit.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy
Division of the Africa Region Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision missions in late 1990 and early 1991 and is based, inter
alia, on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement. supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          International oil companies have been exploring for
petroleum in Ethiopia since the 1930s and have found two interesting gas
occurrences, one in the Red Sea and the other in the Ogaden Basin. In
addition, encouraging shows of liquid hydrocarbons have been encountered
in the southeastern part of the Ogaden. In the early 1980s, only one
company had an acreage position in Ethiopia and this was in the Gambela
area to protect their holdings in the Sudan. In order to attract more
international oil companies to other parts of Ethiopia, it was
recognized that the known geology, results of past drilling activities
and modern interpretation of seismic data would have to be integrated
into a composite picture. In addition a new model contract would have
to be devised along the principles of the Production Sharing Agreement.
Finally, the legislation governing the exploration and exploitation of
hydrocarbons would have to be updated and agreed to by the Government.
This package of geological and legal information would then be presented
to the petroleum industry for their consideration in evaluating the
hydrocarbon potential of Ethiopia.
2.          A credit for SDR6,500,000 (US$7,000,000 equivalent) was
approved in June 1983 to attract oil companies to Ethiopia to supply the
capital and the technical expertise for exploration and development of
the country's petroleum resources. This was to be accomplished by
providing assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) by (i)
strengthening the technical capability of the MME in developing and
supervising a petroleum exploration program, (ii) providing assistance
in promoting and offering prospective acreage to interested companies;
and (iii) providing assistance to continue work in evaluating the
country's geothermal prospects. In addition, the project aimed to
strengthen MKEs financing of exploration, legal, accounting, and seismic
consultants; training materials and equipment purchases; and
reprocessing of seismic data. Scheduled closing of the project was
September 30, 1987 however, this was postponed three times until
September 30, 1990 and a fourth time only for the Resident Advisor until
March 31, 1991.
3.          Under World Bank and UNDP funding, and according to World
Bank Guidelines, the MKE hired consultants and contractors as outlined
below. The first promotion meeting, originally scheduled for November,
1985 and postponed until April 1986, was held in Addis Ababa and was
attended by some nine companies and resulted in US$440,000 worth of
reports being sold. Followup response by oil companies was very poor,
probably due to the sudden drop in the price of oil preceding the
promotion meeting. Although no companies signed up for blocks as a



- iii -
result of the promotion meetings, the meetings no doubt set the stage
for further contacts with oil companies on a one-on-one basis.
4.          During the last half of 1988, representatives of the MME and
its exploration consultants visited a number of international oil
companies in Europe and the USA. During these visits the latest results
of the exploration work in Ethiopia were presented and companies were
able to ask questions of the team in confidence. These meetings
probably did more to enhance the industry's perception of Ethiopia than
the meetings in Addis. A general meeting with a number of companies is
no doubt necessary, however, a great deal of pertinent data can be
transferred in small one-on-one meetings.
5.          The greatest impetus to the promotion campaign was achieved
during the tenure of the second Resident Advisor, who was a noted and
respected international petroleum explorationist. Through his efforts.
a number of petroleum companies were made aware of the exploration
opportunities in Ethiopia with the effect that two companies, Maxus
Energy and Hunt Exploration each took up exploration blocks in the
Ogaden. No doubt the cessation of hostilities in the area as well as
encouraging news from drilling in Somalia had much to do with the
renewed interest.
6.          Of great importance to the future exploration effort which
will outlive the project is that data generated by the project as well
as data which were collected, interpreted and archived are now available
and accessible to any and all who wish to view the data. Data which are
presently being acquired will be added to the overall data base and may
be accessed at any time in the future, provided, of course, that care is
exercised in its safe keeping.
7.          The geothermal component of the project accomplished its
objectives in defining the most promising areas for geothermal
exploration. In addition, this component purchased through the project,
vehicles, equipment and geophysical instruments which can be of use, not
just to the geothermal section of the EIGS (Ethiopian Institute of
Geological Surveys), but to the EIGS in general.
8.          In retrospect, it is felt that a great deal of time, money
and effort was spent in sending, financing and keeping track of MME
technical people who were sent to universities to obtain Master's
degrees in geology and geophysics. Much of the Project Manager's time
was spent in picking and choosing candidates as well as keeping track of
their progress or lack of same. Some of the technical personnel who
were trained under this program, failed to return to Ethiopia. Those
who chose to return in Ethiopia and remain with the Petroleum Unit face
a shortage of office space and an apathetic management who seemingly has
little interest in maintaining the level of expertise nor utilizing it
to the Petroleum Unit's advantage. Nevertheless, the people trained
under the project will form a nucleus around which future institutions
can be built, provided some of the shortcomings are addressed and
rectified.



- iv -
9.          Although it is a bit early in the program to be specific,
the companies which are presently in Ethiopia, especially in the onshore
portion of the Ogaden Basin will be engaged in a great deal of
exploration activity which requires a fair amount of local input which
will be paid for by the oil companies. These goods and services, which
will be purchased locally, will generate foreign exchange, as well as
provide employment for a few people, such as geologists, geophysicists,
drivers, domestic help, and local laborers. This is in addition to
monies (estimated at over US$1 million) which have already been
generated by sales of reports and data. Finally, there is a continuing
amount of money being generated by the payment of rentals on the blocks.
Even without the discovery of petroleum, the presence of international
oil companies ensures a continuing flow of money into the economy. This
is estimated to be approximately 30 percent of a company's onshore
budget and 10 percent of a company's offshore budget.
10.         Lessons which can be learned from this project are:
(a) The enormous value during implementation of good
project preparation with PPF assistance,
(b) Implementation agency and project team should consider
both public and private promotional meetings and having a
proper balance of the two,
(c) Candidates chosen for staff training should be chosen
with great care and not exclusively on the basis of academic
excellence but rather on motivation and dedication. Where
staff fail to return, training should perhaps consist only
of short-term studies.
(d) Postponement of closing date was obviously helpful in
the project's attainment of most of its objectives. Bank
management should always approach the subject of extension
with an open mind addressing the needs of the project and
the host country.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                           Petroleum Exploration Promotion
and Geothermal Reconnaissance Project
Credit Number                  Cr 1386-ET
RVP Unit                       Africa Region
Country                        Ethiopia
Sector                               Energy
Subsector                      Petroleum and Geothermal
B.    Backgro
1.          Although Ethiopia has great hydro-power potential, its actual use
of fuelwood, crop residues and animal dung is excessive in relation to the
limited supply of these energy sources. Hydro-power potential has been
estimated at about 53,000 gigawatthours, but less than four percent has been
tapped. Although the presence of potential geothermal energy has been
recognized for some time, none has been developed because of economic
considerations relative to hydro.   Consideration has been given to developing
geothermal resources for direct use such as crop drying, paper manufacturing
or for power generation in isolated localities away from the national
electrical grid.
2.          Ethiopia's other dominant proved energy resource is fuelwood.
Demand for fuelwood in the past has been so great that the country's forest
reserves, which covered 40 percent of the country at the turn of the century,
have been reduced to only 3.5 percent at appraisal time and at the present
time (1991) covers only 3.0 percent. The Government of Ethiopia. GOE, thus
assigns high priority to the reduction of firewood consumption and the arrest
of deforestation in the country.
3.          Petroleum accounts for only 6 percent of primary energy use and at
the time of appraisal, amounted to a net cost of about US$140 million which in
1981 amounted to 26 percent of the total exports from Ethiopia.
4.          Ethiopia's total land area is 1.2 million km2 of which sedimentary
areas cover about 30 percent, or 350,000 km2. The Red Sea offshore has an
area of about 78,000 km2 of which 48,000 km2 form the shelf. Other
sedimentary areas of potential interest are the Ogaden Basin, Gambela and the
Dinder area.



- 2 -
5.          Exploration activity in Ethiopia has been going on since the
1930s, however the greatest activity was between 1963 and 1977 when a number a
international oil companies were active in the country. During this period
substantial gas indications were encountered in the Red Sea and the Ogaden
Basin and several wells had encouraging shows of liquid petroleum.
Exploration abruptly ceased in 1977 shortly after the revolution, but resumed
in the early eighties when a company took a block in the Gambela area.
6.          The Ministry of Mines and Energy, MME, is responsible for the
exploration and exploitation of all energy projects in the country including
natural gas, petroleum and geothermal. Through the MME's Oil & Gas
Exploration Project Coordinating Office, OGEPCO, the Soviet Petroleum
Exploration Expedition, SPEE, in the Ogaden Basin is supervised. Technical
personnel for the exploration activity are supplied through the Ethiopian
Institute of Geological Surveys, EIGS, which is under the MME.
7.          In 1981, it was recognized that to attract oil companies to
Ethiopia, it would be necessary to gather together all of the known geologic
data and the results of previous drilling and seismic efforts and prepare a
comprehensive report which would discuss the geology within the framework of
modern concepts. Moreover, there was also a need to update the legislation
and to design a modern model contract which would be acceptable to the oil
industry and favorable to the Government. The results of the data
interpretation and legal changes could then be brought to the attention of the
international oil companies by means of a promotion effort.
C.    Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtion
8.          Proiect Obiectives:  The project was to support the efforts of the
MME to attract renewed exploration efforts by international oil companies and
to establish the feasibility of geothermal energy development. Specifically,
the project was to:
(a)   strengthen the technical capability of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy in developing and supervising a petroleum exploration
program;
(b)   provide assistance in promoting and offering prospective acreage
to interested companies; and
(c)   provide assistance to continue work in evaluating the country's
geothermal prospects.
9.          Project Description:  The project consisted of two basic
components--petroleum exploration promotion and geothermal reconnaissance.
The exploration promotion component consisted of:
(a)   Consulting Services by an exploration consulting firm to compile
and reinterpret all information gathered by previously active oil
companies; to supervise field geophysical work, seismic
reprocessing, and analyses (geochemical, sedimentologic and



-3-
paleontologic) necessary for data reinterpretation; to define and
prepare an exploration strategy; to prepare promotion reports for
sale to interested companies and associated tender documents; to
promote offered blocks and negotiate with oil companies; to
interpret and integrate with existing information data acquired
from new exploration activities; and to monitor contractors' work
obligations. In addition, the exploration consultants would
assist in the training of the MME staff.
(i)      Legal Advisory Services to recommend amendments to
existing legislation which would incorporate current
worldwide practices; to prepare a model
exploration/production agreement and to provide, in
cooperation with the exploration consultants,
assistance to the Government during future
negotiations with interested oil companies.
(ii)      Services of a petroleum accounting/auditing firm to
review the existing petroleum accounting system of the
MME; to design an improved system to monitor the
performance of work and financial commitments of oil
companies with activities in the country; to implement
the designed system and train the MME's staff in its
operation; and to supervise the system's operation on
a periodic basis.
(iii)      GeoRhvsical Work.  About 3.000 km of old seismic data
from the Red Sea and the Ogaden to be reprocessed and
about 800 km of new seismic data to be acquired in the
Red Sea.
(b)   Training.  On-the-job training to be provided to MME staff by the
consultants. Also short training courses overseas and in house in
exploration and laboratory techniques. Six 2-year scholarships to
cover studies leading to MSc degrees in petroleum-related fields
in academic programs acceptable to IDA.
(c)   Special Studies.  These include a market and feasibility survey
for the use of natural gas resources in the domestic economy.
(d)   Eguipment.  Purchase of special copying machines for logs and
seismic profiles, a digitizer, desk-top computer, vehicles,
technical books, magnetic tapes and storage files for geological
and geophysical data.
10.         The geothermal reconnaissance component in the Afar area to
include:
(a)   Consulting services to supervise the work financed under the
project, to review the results of past and current reconnaissance
work undertaken elsewhere, and to develop an overall strategy for
geothermal development;



- 4 -
(b)   Survey wok, geological mapping, selected resistivity surveys and
chemical analyses of fumarolic gases;
(c)   Training of MME staff in the geothermal unit; and
(d)   EguiRment for the above.
D.    Project Design and Organization
11.         The project was appraised in November, 1982 and the Project Brief
was distributed on July 23. 1982. Since this was a technical assistance
project, no Staff Appraisal Report was issued. Two PPFs were issued, the
first for US$400,000 to finance project preparation and the second for
US$600,000 to complete the preparation and to initiate project implementation.
Exploration, Legal and Accounting consulting firms were chosen in the last
quarter of 1982. The exploration consultants prepared a report on the Phase
One activities which was issued in January 1983. The results of the Phase One
study clearly identified the work necessary to complete Phase Two and it was
on the basis of Phase One that the project was appraised.
12.         The total IDA project was approved for SDR6,500,000 (US$7,000,000
equivalent). The UNDP parallel project would finance up to US$1,300,000 with
the local currency expenditures amounting to US$1,150,000 for a total project
cost of US$9,450,000. The UNDP project was very similar in design to the IDA
project except that the UNDP project financed a number of fellowships abroad
and did not concern itself with geothermal studies. The Bank worked closely
with the UNDP in the project design and was the executing agent for those UNDP
financed components.
13.         The Credit was negotiated in May 1983 and was approved in June
1983. The Credit was signed on September 16, 1983 and subsequently became
effective on February 14, 1984.
E.    Implementation of the Project
14.         During the early stages of the project, it was necessary to hire
exploration, legal and accounting consultants under a PPF. The work
undertaken by these consultants allowed the project to be well underway once
the Credit Agreement became effective.
15.         One of the major components of the project was to obtain copies of
all of the basic geological and geophysical data from oil companies which had
been operating in Ethiopia previously. The companies included Mobil, Gulf,
Shell, Elwerath, Arco. Tenneco and Aminoil. Letters were written to each of
these companies by the MME requesting that magnetic tapes of seismic data be
lent to the Project for eventual copying, reprocessing and interpretation.
For the most part, companies were quite responsive and willingly gave the MME
access to the magnetic tapes, drilling information and other geological and
geophysical maps of interest. One or two companies, who had a difficult time
when they departed Ethiopia during the mid 70s, resisted making the data



available; however once the objectives of the project were explained to them,
they provided the needed data. Copies of all of these basic data are in
storage with a commercial firm in Houston, Texas and may be readily accessed
by any company or individual authorized by the MME.
16.         Acquisition of offshore seismic data in the Red Sea was done by an
acquisition contractor. Quality of the data was considered to be better than
anything acquired before. Vehicles and technical equipment were purchased
under the project which will continue to be used by the EIGS for many years to
come.
17.         Implementation of the geothermal component of the Project
progressed in an orderly fashion without any extraordinary delays. On the
petroleum side, the Project was delayed for more than three years due to the
following factors:
(a)   the promotion meeting scheduled for Addis in November 1985 was
p6stponed until April, 1986. At that time, the price of oil
dropped significantly drying up potential interest in oil
exploration worldwide;
(b)   the Petroleum Unit never had permanent or satisfactory quarters
resulting in cramped office space for geologists and
geophysicists;
(c)   supplies of basic equipment and office supplies were always
inadequate and contributed to low staff morale;
(d)   the original resident explorationist who was present for two years
failed to instill in the Unit the necessary enthusiasm required to
conduct the studies and promotion;
18.         In this project, oil companies were exposed to the basic data in
two ways; large promotional meeting where a number of companies attend, and
one-on-one meetings where personnel of the MME meet with representatives of
one company at a time. Each method has its advantages. In the case of
Ethiopia. large promotion meetings gave companies a general overview or
country profile. One-on-one meetings however, allowed companies the
opportunity to express more freely their concerns and opinions.
F.    Project Results
19.         The Project was successful in attracting oil companies to Ethiopia
to sign an agreement with the Government to undertake exploration activities
for hydrocarbons. The first agreement for a block in the Red Sea was signed
on May 28, 1988 with IPG. International Petroleum Group. IPG later signed the
operations over to Amoco. A second block in the Red Sea was signed in the
last half of 1988 by Britoil who assigned the block to British Petroleum when
Britoil was purchased by B.P. The International Finance Corporation is
participating in the venture with B.P. for 25 percent. At the time of the
writing of this PCR. both companies have been active in their exploration



- 6 -
efforts although Amoco postponed some of their operations due to political
instability in the area.
20.         In the Ogaden area, one large block was signed by Hunt Oil Co. on
July 27, 1990 and another on July 31, 1990 by Maxus Energy Corporation. No
doubt the delay in signing blocks in the Ogaden was due in part to a lack of
security in the area. Once understandings were reached between the GOE and
Somalia, oil companies seemed keen to look at the Ogaden seriously. Initial
work commitments for both companies entail doing some geological field work
and gravity surveys which may be followed by seismic acquisition and eventual
drilling if results are favorable.
21.         Because of the political unrest in the country during the last few
years, all of the companies operating in the offshore areas have declared
Force Majeure and suspended operations. In the onshore areas, Maxus suspended
operations for a short time, but have resumed their exploration efforts. IFC,
in the Gambela area have suspended their operations. Hunt's operations in the
Ogaden have not been effected as they were late getting started.
22.         Total combined work commitments for the initial exploration period
amount to approximately US$32 million including training stipends, rentals and
exploration expenditures. Should all companies be sufficiently encouraged and
go into the first extension, the additional work commitments would amount to
approximately US$42 million. Additional expenditures will, of course, depend
upon the results and encouragement of the exploration efforts in the initial
terms.
23.         Studies of the gas development of the Calub gas field were made
under the project and have resulted in a renewed interest in developing the
natural resource. Results of the studies suggest that the field can be
exploited commercially, which development will be an objective of a follow-up
energy and mining project.
24.         The success of the project can be attributed to a large extent to
the fact that the closing date was extended sufficiently to allow for an
orderly completion of the work. Without these extensions, no doubt the
project would have failed.
25.         In addition to the obvious benefits of the Project above, the
Project has been instrumental in training a number of technical people within
the MME. Some eighteen fellows were sent to university training leading to
Master's programs in geology or geophysics. Of the eighteen students studying
abroad, three decided not to return to Ethiopia either for political or
economic reasons. Short training courses were held which were made available
to everyone including representatives from other countries. These short
courses were considered to be very successful in that local reaction was very
positive and plans are to continue the courses in the future. As was
mentioned, training which was acquired abroad at universities and other
institutions had rather mixed results in that some students elected not to
return to Ethiopia, especially those who studied in North American
universities.



-7-
C.    Proiect Sustainability
26.         From the experience of the project, in-house training in the form
of formal seminars conducted by recognized experts seemed to be the best
value. The training was directed and tailored to the needs of the personnel
in the MME and was made available to everyone simultaneously for the same
cost. Overseas training, especially in the USA and Canada, was not considered
cost effective. As was noted, some students, after having attended the
university, decided not to return to Ethiopia. Rather late in the program it
was recognized that students who attended university in India or Europe,
tended to return to Ethiopia to rejoin the MME. This was due to the fact that
students in North America, for example, had more of an incentive to remain due
to the rather pleasant life style and relative ease of finding employment.
27.         A documentalist was financed under the project to organize the
EIGS library and to computerize the various items for easy access. The result
has been that the library has become more useful both to EIGS staff and
visitors.
28.         The project has laid a firm foundation of a model contract and
suitable legal framework, without which, no negotiations with oil companies
would be possible. Moreover, the project has funded geological studies and
data acquisition which has been, and will continue to be instrumental in
attracting oil companies to Ethiopia to explore for hydrocarbons. These
studies, and the positive response by oil companies, has resulted in an
improvement of the perception of MME staff of the hydrocarbon possibilities of
Ethiopia resulting in increased enthusiasm for acreage promotion. Finally,
the fact that the project has ensured that exploration data are now accessible
to all interested parties has a long-lasting effect on current and future
exploration interest.
29.         It is obvious that the success of projects of this type is
dependent somewhat on the price of petroleum which influences the degree of
interest exploration companies may have in international exploration,
especially in countries where there is no current petroleum production.
Whether the interest in the country will continue beyond the term of the
project depends not only on the price of petroleum, but on the degree of
encouragement experienced by those companies involved in the exploration
effort. In addition, the success or failure experienced in neighboring
countries will have an effect on the overall interest shown in Ethiopia.
There is, of course, the financial "windfall" created by companies operating
in the country and purchasing local goods and services within the county.
This benefit to the country is estimated to be about 30 percent of the total
exploration budget.
H.    Bank Performance
30.         Project preparation and appraisal was well done in that it was
apparent early on where the initial thrust of the effort should be directed.
That is to say that early efforts had to be directed to acquisition of modern
offshore seismic data, acquisition of older seismic data from previous



- 8 -
operators in the country and to reprocess these data using modern techniques
to illustrate how improvement could be obtained at relatively little cost.
31.         The Bank was continually supportive of the MMEs efforts to attract
exploration companies to Ethiopia and encouraged the MME to initiate studies
in other prospective areas in the country. The Bank project team could have
been more forceful in following up recommendations and suggestions agreed to
during supervision missions. This perhaps could have been rectified by
increasing the frequency of supervision missions rather than adhering to
standard time schedule.
32.         Frequent changes in the composition of the Bank staff assigned to
follow up on the project caused some consternation in the MME as well as a
loss of continuity in the Bank which led to inconsistencies in project
supervision. Amongst the lessons to be learned would be retaining of the
composition of the project team (particularly in projects such as this one
with a high technical content) as much a possible so that continuity could be
maintained and to avoid giving the impression that the Bank was indecisive in
forming the project team.
I.    Borrower Performance
33.         Except for frequent delays in preparation and submittal of the
annual audit report, all covenants in the Credit Agreement were met, as
outlined in Table 7. The Petroleum Unit was set up in good time with
competent technical people. Office space, for the most part, was inadequate
and presented a rather poor impression to international oil companies.
34.         The MME was slow to react to requests by IDA to upgrade the
Petroleum Unit with adequate office space, supplies, computer equipment and
personnel. In the final days of the project, the Project Manager appeared
uninterested in the project. This was manifested by lack of cooperation with
the Resident Advisor, lack of responsiveness in dealing with oil company
queries and apparent apathy in the overall conduct and progress of the
project. The ultimate success of the project was more in spite of the Project
Manager than due to any of his direct input.
35.         A series of reorganizations of the MME resulted in the end in a
rather impotent Petroleum Unit whose Manager appeared to be answerable only to
the Minister of Mines himself rather than through the normal chain of
authority. This resulted in a virtual breakdown in project authority and
responsibility which manifested itself as a paralysis of the project and
obvious deterioration of overall morale.
J.    Consulting and Contracting Services
36.         Consulting Services:  During the course of the project, a number
of consultants were hired either by IDA (in the case of UNDP financing) or by
the MME (in the case of IDA financing). In all cases, the MMEs approval was
sought before a contract was signed so that a good working relationship would



-9-
be assured. Moreover, relevant procurement guidelines were followed for the
hiring of all consultants. The following consulting services were used during
the project:
(a)   Exploration Consultants:  The consultants were responsible for the
acquisition, interpretation and integration of all of the
geological and geophysical data and preparation of the geological
report which was sold to companies. They were also responsible
for the preparation and presentation of the promotion program.
Their work was considered to be satisfactory.
(b)   Resident Explorationist or Advisor:  The Resident Explorationists
were responsible for assisting the MME in the conduct of the
project, to advise on the promotion and to implement on-the-job
training for Ethiopian technicians. Two resident advisors were
present during the project. The first was present during the
initial phase for two years and his work was considered to be
unsatisfactory. The second advisor was present at the end of the
project for one year. His efforts were probably responsible for
the enhanced interest in the Ogaden exploration. His work was
considered to be of great help in the final promotion efforts.
(c)   Legal Consultants:  A law firm was hired to draw up the model
contract and adjust the legal framework. The firm was not
considered satisfactory and was subsequently replaced by legal
experts associated with the Exploration consultants.
(d)   Accounting Consultants:  An accounting firm was hired to draw up
the accounting procedures for oil companies. Their work was
considered to be satisfactory.
(e)   Geophysical Consultant:  A geophysical consulting firm was hired
to supply quality control supervision for seismic acquisition and
processing. In addition the firm assisted the exploration
consultants in securing old data from oil companies who worked
previously in Ethiopia. Their work was considered to be
satisfactory.
(f)   Documentalist:  An individual was hired by the MME to assist them
in setting up the library and entering library items on the
computer. The work was considered to be satisfactory.
(g)   Natural Gas Consultants:  Their job was to undertake studies of
the gas indications in Ethiopia and to study the feasibility of
their development and utilization. Their work was considered to
be satisfactory.
(h)   Training Consultants:  The firm undertook a series of training
courses in Ethiopia which were very well received.
(i)   Geothermal Consultants:  The firm undertook the geothermal
reconnaissance study in the eastern part of Ethiopia. The work



- 10 -
included geologic, geophysical and topographic surveys including
sampling and studies of geothermal manifestations. Specialized
equipment purchases and training of technical personnel were also
a part of their job.
37.         Contracting Services:  Since most of the work was done by means of
consultants, only a few contractors were hired as follows:
(a)   Seismic Acquisition and Processing Contractor:  This contractor
was responsible for the acquisition and processing of marine
seismic data. In addition the contractor reprocessed old marine
data in the Red Sea. Their work was considered to be
satisfactory.
(b)   Land Seismic Data Reprocessing:  This contractor was responsible
for the reprocessing of old seismic data which were acquired from
oil companies who previously worked in the Ogaden Basin. Their
work was considered to be satisfactory.
K.    Proiect Documentation and Data
38.         The Credit Agreement could have been more explicit in requiring
periodic reports from the MME. Resident technical advisors were generally
prompt in submitting periodic reports and these have been used extensively for
the PCR. For the periods when no advisor was in place the record is silent
except for copies of communications. This is not surprising considering that
the Project Manager appeared apathetic to most components of the project and
assumed no responsibility for project implementation.
39.         A useful lesson to be learned is to require in the Credit
Agreement that the borrower submit a report on the progress of the project to
IDA on at least a quarterly basis. This would have helped ensure that project
progress was monitored between supervision missions.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Background
1.           As the result of a series of Petroleum Exploration efforts in Ethiopia
encouraging oil and gas shows have been encountered both in the Ogaden Basin and in the
Red Sea off-shore. Tenneco's Calub-l gas discovery, the Hilala-l oil show encounter in the
Ogaden Basin, the Mobil C-1 gas blow-out in the Red Sea and a number of onshore and
offshore oil seeps have all been considered positive signs for the existence of petroleum
accumulations in the respective vicinities.
2.           Although international oil companies have been exploring for petroleum in
Ethiopia since the end of the First World War, no organized office responsible for supervising
or coordinating activities of the oil companies existed until the Mines Control Office was
established within the Ministry of Mines in the 1960s. The office, headed and staffed by,
lawyers, had certain difficulties in monitoring companies' activities outside its sphere of
expertise. Therefore, the need to establish a petroleum unit staffed with qualified
professionals in order to work with and coordinate future petroleum operators' activities has
been high on the Ministry's agenda for some time.
3.           The Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys is the mineral and geothermal
exploration arm of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Its main responsibility is preparation
of geological maps and exploration for hard minerals. Mineral development falls under the
jurisdiction of another organization.
4.           In 1981, when the Soviet Petroleum Exploration Expedition started exploring
for petroleum in the Ogaden Basin, the Ministry of Mines and Energy established a
coordinating office called Oil and Gas Exploration Project Coordinating Office (OGEPCO).
The personnel of OGEPCO were mainly drawn from the Ethiopian Institute of Geological
Survey's technical staff.
5.           In order to reduce the burden of oil imports upon the Ethiopian economy, it
has been felt necessary to attract as many oil companies as possible into the country to help
hasten the efforts of locating commercial accumulation of oil and gas. To do so, the need for
undertaking a project that will analyze past and present efforts and prepare the necessary
grounds for inviting investments by oil companies was established. The petroleum unit was
established within the Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys to coordinate the various
project activities.



- 12 -
B.    Proiect Activitie
6.           In addition to the project objectives outlined in Part I of the PCR, two other
important objectives of the project were:
(a)    Training of MME staff in the pertinent fields of petroleum operations; and
(b)    Setting up a petroleum unit within the MME that may form a nucleus for
future national petroleum corporation.
C.    Prolect Description
7.           The petroleum exploration promotion component consisted of:
(A)   Consulting Services
(i)    Technical Services by an exploration consulting firm to collect, review
and interpret all available exploration data and compile a
comprehensive technical promotion report for sale to international oil
companies.
(ii)    Legal Consultants to review existing legislation concerning Petroleum
Operations and advise on the form of contract under which the
operations should be carried out, and also draft a model agreement to
serve as the basis for negotiating contracts between the Government
and oil companies.
(iii)   Accounting and Auditing Consultancy Services to assist in devising the
most appropriate fiscal provisions, and to design a financial
monitoring system that would enable the Ministry of Mines and
Energy to monitor the activities of oil companies.
(iv)   Geophysical Services to perform the following:
(a)   to acquire and process about 800 line kilometers of new
marine seismic data; and
(b)   to reprocess about 3000 line km of old marine and land
seismic data.
(v)    Quality Control Services to establish terms of reference for new
marine seismic survey and carry out onsite supervision of the survey
operations, as well as to verify that the acquisition parameters are
maintained as specified and assist MME in the location and retrieval
of missing data. The consultant was also to prepare terms of
reference for the processing of the new seismic and the reprocessing
of old seismic data, and quality control the data processing and
reprocessing.



- 13 -
(B)   SPECIAL STUDIES: Two different studies were to be undertaken under this
category:
(i)    To carry out a pre-feasibility study to evaluate the possibilitieS of
developing both the Ogaden Calub gas field and the Red Sea C-1 gas
reserves for domestic use and investigate export options.
(ii)   To carry out a feasibility study of small scale gas utilization in
Ethiopia.
(C)   To perform a detailed morphostructural interpretation of Gambela - Omo area
from landsat Thematic mapper using color images at 1:250,000 scale. The
objective of this study being to assist in promoting and offering acreage to
interested oil companies in the Gambela and Omo river area in the southern
tip of the Ethiopian Rift Valley.
8.           The South Afar geothermal reconnaissance component consisted of:
(a)    Consulting services to supervise the work financed under the project, to
review the results of past reconnaissance work in the area and current work
being undertaken elsewhere, and to develop an overall strategy for geothermal
development.
(b)    Suryg work including geological mapping utilizing aerial photographs and
satellite imagery, selected resistivity surveys as well as chemical analysis of
fumarolic gases.
(c)    Training of MME staff in the geothermal unit.
(d)    Eqi2ment acquisition for the above.
D.    Project Implementation
9.           At the commencement of the project, it was necessary to hire legal,
accounting and technical consultants in order to invesdgate existing legal, accounting and
technical documents and prepare the necessary promotional bidding package.
10.          The Government, with the assistance of these international consulting firms:
(a)    made available a comprehensive technical report on the petroleum potential of
Ethiopia containing new concepts for exploration;
(b)    prepared a new petroleum legislation with a view to stimulating petroleum
activities in the country;
(c)    prepared, for the first time, a new model production sharing agreement to
serve as a basis for negotiation between the Government and international oil
companies; and
(d)    opened 25 blocks covering nearly 350,000 sq. km and located both offshore in
the Red Sea and onshore in the Ogaden Basin as well as in the Gambela
Basin.



- 14 -
11.          After selling 13 technical reports to 11 companies, a promotional meeting was
held in Addis Ababa from April 7-10, 1986 with representatives of 9 of the largest
international oil companies. Technical presentation of the report and a review of the
petroleum legislation and income tax proclamation were made. Participants were taken on a
two day field trip to the Blue Nile of George and northern Ogaden. Subsequent drop of oil
price slowed down exploration pace. In the summer of 1988, MME officials conducted a
promotional tour in the USA and gave an overview of the petroleum potential to 11
international companies on one-to-one basis.
12.          Implementation of the petroleum exploration promotion component of the
project was not delayed due to the reasons stated in Part I of the PCR, that is,
(a)    The petroleum unit not having permanent or satisfactory quarters;
(b)   Inadequacy of office supplies; and
(c)   Incompetency of original resident explorationist.
These were minor things that did not have significant influence on the project implementation.
The major reasons for the project's falling behind schedule were:
(a)    Tenneco company was reluctant to release requested seismic tapes for
reprocessing which in turn, delayed the interpretation phase;
(b)    The quality control consultant's effort to follow up and retrieve the required
data from the oil companies was not intensive enough; and
(c)    Preparation of terms of reference for acquisition of new seismic data was not
on schedule, etc...
E.    Project Results
13.          No less than 5 oil companies have signed production sharing agreements with
the Government and have began exploration activities both onshore and offshore. These
activities are temporarily halted due to the political changes that the country is undergoing and
are expected to resume shortly.
A number of other applications were received which did not result in contract
conclusion.
14.          Another benefit achieved is the development of national capability in the field
of petroleum operations through in-house training, on-the-job training as well as overseas
training opportunities through scholarships using funds allocated by the oil companies.
Project staff members that have benefitted from these opportunities have already formed an
exploration team and embarked on preliminary data gathering activities in frontier areas in
order to identify new areas for promotion.
15.          Through this project, the Government has assigned a consulting firm to
evaluate natural gas resource potential, mainly the potential availability and deliverability of
gas tested in the Ogaden and Red Sea Basins. The special study evaluated the Calub gas in
the Ogaden and the results were encouraging enough to warrant a small scale gas utilization
feasibility study. The result of the feasibility study are being awaited.



- 15 -
F.    Bank's Performance
16.          The Borrower expresses its highest appreciation for the Bank's support given
to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The Bank's supervisors were highly cooperative and
closely monitored the project's progress, particularly during its first year of the
implementation.
17.          Changes in the composition of the Bank team during the first 3 years has
given rise to some minor problems of communications and procurement of equipment. As the
Bank's supervisor assigned to the project handled several similar projects elsewhere in the
world, it sometimes took several weeks before receiving a reply to a telex or fax message.
18.          Quality control and reprocessing contracts were signed between the Bank and
respective consultants and it took several correspondences before the Ministry obtained copies
of the contracts for follow-up. The quality control consultants started on the job before the
contract was signed and this may be one reason why they were slow in fulfilling their duty.
One reason why there was delay in project implementation was because Bell and Murphy, the
quality control consultants, were slow in getting after Tenneco to acquire requested seismic
data for the reprocessing and they kept changing project contact persons.
G.    Borrower's Performance
19.          The Ministry of Mines and Energy has set up a well staffed petroleum unit
within the Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys to coordinate the activities of the project.
20.          The petroleum unit's staff were quick to learn the ways of the petroleum
industry and together with the Ministry officials were able to embark on promotional efforts
almost on their own. Correspondences and contacts were maintained with a number of oil
companies like Britoil, Occidental, Hunt, Shell, Mobil, etc., that showed interest in the
petroleum potential in Ethiopia.
21.          As the result of MME's continued promotional efforts, two companies,
Occidental in January 1987, and Britoil in January 1988, submitted applications for offshore
blocks. Occidental withdrew its application before the start of negotiations for reasons of
their own, but Britoil started and continued negotiations until it was bought up by British
Petroleum, who later on resumed and successfully concluded the negotiations. International
Petroleum Limited (IPL) signed for Red Sea acreage in 1988, and British Petroleum
concluded an agreement in 1989.
22.          The Ministry organized a big promotional meeting in Addis Ababa in April
1986, and in 1988 conducted a small promotional tour in the United States where several
companies were visited and briefed by Ministry officials. As a result of these door to door
visits and briefings, many companies developed interest in the Ethiopian petroleum prospects
and purchased the technical report and supportive data on a larger scale than before.
23.          The Ministry sent young professionals overseas for training in Petroleum
Geology, Petroleum Geophysics and Geochemistry. These professionals returned to form
important members of an exploration team. It was this team that mapped the western part of



- 16 -
the present Maxus concession area. It was this team's field map and data that helped Maxus
decide to choose their present acreage when they visited Ethiopia in 1990.
H.    Lessons to be Learned
24.          Although the Bank-Borrower relationship has been very good, there are
always lessons to be learned in projects of such magnitude and importance.
25.          When the petroleum unit was set up by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
within the Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys, its reporting channel was supposed to
have been established to be through the General Manager of the Institute. However, from the
very beginning right to the end of the project period, most decisions were made by high
Ministry officials (namely the Vice Minister and Minister) leaving little significant role to be
played by the Institute in implementation of the project. The petroleum unit co-ordinated
project activities and advised Ministry officials, and especially in the latter stages, was
increasingly left out of most decisions made with regards to project activities. Although this
could be taken as a reflection of the importance given to the project by the high government
officials, it inevitably resulted in partial breakdown of reporting channels and reduction in
overall morale. As the petroleum unit had the required trained professionals, early attention
and resolution of the above noted problems could have gone a long way in inspiring better
self-confidence and allowing for an accelerated build-up of skills and experiences in petroleum
operations.
26.          The Bank kept changing project supervisors in the early days of the project
and the result was confusion and breakdown in communications. In the last days of the
project, the Bank supervisor was corresponding mainly with the project resident advisor.
There is no harm in this as long as the national project manager is kept in the picture by the
Bank supervisor and not through the technical advisor. After all, the project office has been
going on its own for five years.



-17 -
COMMENTS ON THE ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART I OF THE PCR
1.           Under the Evaluation Summary, in paragraph 3, it is stated that nine
companies attended the promotion meeting held in Addis Ababa in 1986 which resulted in
US$440,000 worth of reports being sold. Actually eleven companies had already purchased
US$426,000 worth of reports before the promotion meeting date.
2.           RE: Para. 4: MME and its exploration consultant visited international oil
companies only in the USA and did not visit Europe.
3.           RE: Para. 5: With respect to the role of the Technical Advisory, it should be
noted that the Project Office had communications with Hunt Oil Co. since 1986. Hunt's
representative visited Addis Ababa in September of 1989 for data examination and again in
December 1989 to conduct a short field study. Application was submitted mid-February
1990. The Technical Advisor's contract started on January 9, 1990.
4.           RE: Para. 8: It is stated that much of the Project Manager's time was spent
on picking and choosing candidates as well as keeping track of their progress. This is felt to
be a misrepresentation of the facts as there is an independent Scholarship Committee within
the Institute of Geological Surveys that handles the selection process. The Project Manager
did play an important role in recommending suitable candidates and did follow up on the
progress of the training, but this hardly occupied "much of his time" as stated in the report.
5.           RE: Para. 17: The main reason for the project delay is omitted, i.e. the
reprocessing of old seismic data fell much behind schedule because of Tenneco's reluctance to
give the requested tapes.
6.           RE: Para. 19: It should be noted that Britoil never signed an agreement.
They submitted an application for Red Sea blocks but were immediately bought by BP. The
contract was signed by British Petroleum in March 1989.
7.           RE: Para. 34: The problems faced by the Petroleum Unit, especially in the
latter days of the project, has been outlined in paragraph 26 of this report. These problems
also seem to have been recognized and outlined by the writer in para. 35 of the PCR. Hence,
the reference to the Project Manager's "lack of responsiveness in dealing with oil company
queries and apparent apathy in the overall conduct and progress of the project, etc." is
considered to be grossly unfair and contradicts the apparent recognition of the problem as
stated in paragraph 35- of the PCR. Past performances and the enviromnent of non-delegation
of responsibilities and authority in the latter days of the project should have been objectively
evaluated before the statements in paragraph 34 of the PCR were incorporated.



- 18 -
COMMENTS ON BORROWER'S PART II OF THE PCR
Initial delays attributed to Tenneco's reluctance to provide
seismic data, and to delays in preparation of terms of
reference for the seismic survey are considered minor as
compared to later problems in the Petroleum Unit as explained
in the PCR. It should be added that Tenneco's refusal to
submit the seismic data was, for the most part, caused by a
poorly written letter on the part of the consultant which
demanded that Tenneco surrender the data. Tenneco's original
contract with the Government did not provide for the data to
be submitted to the Government; however, the consultant's
letter implied an obligation on the part of Tenneco.
The Petroleum Unit should always be responsive to oil
companies' queries. The fact that Hunt was in contact with
the Unit since 1986 attests to Hunt's tenacity rather than the
unit's responsiveness. Other companies with substantially
less patience merely directed their attentions elsewhere.
The problems mentioned in paragraph 35 were probably due to
the problems identified in paragraph 34. Perhaps some of the
problems of the Petroleum Unit could have been avoided if some
authority had been delegated by the Project Manager.



- 19 -
COMMENTS ON INFORMATION CONTAINED IN PART I OF THE PCR
1.           RE: Item 4:          Signing of First Contract is 05/28/88 and not
05/28/89.
2.           RE: Item 5:          Under Category 1, consultant's services, the final SDR
Disbursement is 4,297,559.79 and not 4,219,570.09.
3.                                The final canceled SDR is 94,644.99 and not
172,634.69.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1386-ET)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Banks Loans and/or Credits
2.    Proiect Timetable
Date           Date           Date
Item                       Planned        Revised         Actual
Identification IEPS                                        8/81
Preparation                 02/82                          2/82
Appraisal Mission           09/82                          11/82
Issues Paper                                               2/83
Credit Negotiations         05/83                         5/07/83
Board Approval              05/83                         6/14/83
Credit Signature                                          9/16/83
Credit Effectiveness        10/83         12/16/83        2/14/84
Credit Closing             9/30/87                       9/30/90*
* Credit was extended until 3/31/91 only for Resident Advisor.



- 21 -
3.    Credit Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                    Disbursements (in SDR million)
and Quarter                   Est. Cum.         Act. Cum   Act X of Est.
1984               2                     0.75             0.0          0.00
3                    1.5              0.41        27.33
4                    3.0              0.42        14.00
1985               1                     3.4              0.89        26.18
2                    4.2              1.43        34.05
3                    4.8              1.93        40.21
4                    5.3              2.13        40.19
1986               1                     5.6              3.01        53.75
2                    6.0              3.11        51.83
3                    6.4              3.64        56.88
4                    6.5              3.92        60.31
1987               1                     6.5              4.13        63.54
2                    6.5              4.45        68.46
3                    6.5              4.60        70.77
4                    6.5              4.67        71.85
1988               1                     6.5              4.91        75.54
2                    6.5              4.95        76.15
3                    6.5              5.24        80.62
4                    6.5              5.40        83.08
1989               1                     6.5              5.51        84.77
2                    6.5              5.72        88.00
3                    6.5              5.83        89.69
4                    6.5              5.88        90.46
1990               1                     6.5              5.98        92.00
2                    6.5              6.02        92.62
3                    6.5              6.06        93.23
4                    6.5              6.14        94.46
1991               1                     6.5              6.25        96.15
2                    6.5              6.32        97.23
3                    6.5              6.33        97.38



- 22 -
4.    Prolect Iinlementation
Indicators                                   Appraisal        Actual or
Estimate       PCR Estimate&
Employment of consultants                      10/82            11/82
Employment of a resident                       06/83            06/83
explorationist
Start of seismic reprocessing                  06/83            04/84
Completion of draft model agreement            06/83            02/85
and laws
Completion of seismic reprocessing             07/83            12/84
Start of Red Sea seismic survey                08/83            03/84
Completion of seismic survey                   10/83            05/84
Enactment of revised petroleum and tax         10/83            02/86
legislation
Completion of initial promotion report         12/83            10/85
First round of acreage bidding                 03/84            04/86
Signature of first agreements with oil         06/84            05/88
companies
Second round of acreage bidding                08/84             N/A
Signature of second round agreements           12/84             N/A
with oil companies
Final exploration report                       06/86            02/91
Completion date                                12/86            03/89
5.    Status of Covenants
Covenant                         Agreement      compl-    Remarks
& Section      iance
Employ consultants               DCA 3.02(a)   yes         none
satisfactory to Association
Establish a Petroleum and        DCA 3.01(b)   yes         none
Geothermal Unit
Set up Separate Accounts         DCA 4.01(a)   yes         none
Audit of accounts by auditors   DCA 4.01(b)   yes          Generally
acceptable to IDA                                          late



- 23 -
6.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
6.a    Project costs
|  Appraisal Estimate X US$1000                            Actual US$
Local     Foreign       Total          Local        Forsip           Total
Consulting Svcs            675         3000       3675                     4,716,583      4,716.583
Geophy Work                 50         1700       1750                     1,360,733      1,360.733
Special studies             50          600        650                       310.969        310,969
Training                    75          550        625                     1,000.193      1.000.193
Vehicles & Equip           100          850        950         86.473        755,385        841,858
Contingencies              200         1600       1800                      j/54,212         54,212    Hisc
Running Cost                                                1,448,760                     1,448,760
Canceled                                                                     101,925        101,925
TOTAL                     1150         8300       9450   1,535.233.0   8,300,000.0   9,835,233.0
0             0               0
A -   Ex^4ect vRinanciJ=ns
Source of Funds         Appraisal Estimate                          Actual
Killion US$                 Million US$
IDA                                7.00                        7.00
Goverrment                              1.15                       1.54
UNDP                                1.30                        1.30
TOTAL                               9.45                        9.84
.L/SDRs converted at rate of 1.076923 SDR/US$
2./Sum remaining for ongoing fellowship



- 24 -
7.    Studies
Purpose as
Study            Defined at             Status
Appraisal                                      Impact of Study.
Market and             Complete                Led to Better
Large-Scale            Feasibility                                    Understanding of
Natural Gas            Survey of use of                               Gas Resources
Utilization            Natural Gas in
Study                  Domestic Economy
Small-Scale            As above but            Complete               Generated
Natural Gas            with emphasis on                               interest in
Utilization            Domestic use                                   Industry for
Study                                                                 Development
Omo River              Not Defined             Complete               May lead to
Landsat and                                                           further
Geological Study                                                      exploration work
in the area.
Geothermal             Identify Areas          Complete               Awaiting Follow-
Reconnaissance         for Future Work                                up Work
S.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Staze of Proect       Planne                           Cgmments
Cgycle                                       uaI         .
Through Appraisal                            47.3
Appraisal thru                                6.5
board Approval
Board Approval                                5.1
thru Effectiveness
Supervision                                  109.2
TOTAL                                     168.1



- 25 -
B. Missions
Stage of Proj               Month/           No. of         Days in       Specialists                        Perform.
cycle                        Year           Persons           FieLd       Represented                         Ratins
Identification               8/81              2               4          FinAnal. geol.
Preparation                  2/82              3                6         FinAnal. Geol. Gph
Preparation                  9/82               1               4         geol.
Preparation                  10/82              1               3         Gph.
Appraisal                    11/82             3               10         geol. FinAnal.
Appraisal                    11/82              1               3         Legal
Post AppraisaL               01/83             3                7         Geol. FinAnaL. Cons                    1
Post AppraisaL               06/83              1               7         Legal                                  1
Supervision                  07/83             2                8         FinAnal. Gph                           1
Supervision                  12/83             1                3         Gph                                    1
Supervision                  02/84             2               10         Gph. LegaL                             1
Supervision                  05/84             1                5         Gph                                    1
Supervision                  07/84             3                7         Gph. Legal, FinAn                      1
Supervision                  02/85             1               14         Gph                                    1
Supervision                  02/85             1                6         Training                               1
Supervision                  06/85             2                5         econ. FinAn                            1
Supervision                  07/85             2                6         Gph. Geol.                             1
Supervision                  02/86             1                4         Econ.                                  1
Supervision                  03/86             2                7         Gph. Eng.                              1
Supervision                  04/86             2                7         Econ. FinAn                            1
Supervision                  10/86             2               10         Gph. FinAn                             1
Supervision                  04/87             1                8         Gph.                                   1
Supervision                  08/87             2               11         Gph. Cons.                             1
Supervision                  12/87             2                3         GeoL. Div. Chf                         1
Supervision                  06/88             1               10         Gph.                               2 delays
Supervision                  09/89             1                6         Gph                                2 deLays
Supervision                  04/90             1                7         Gph                                2 delays
Supervision                  09/90             1               17         Gph                                2 delays
PCR & Spn                    03/91             2                7         Gph & FinAn                        2 delays



