Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3492-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.5 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
May 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00                                   Birr 2.07
Birr 1              :                     US$0.483
Birr 1,000,000                            US$483,000
ABBREVIATIONS
CFF                    Compensatory Financing Facility
EELPA.                 Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
EPC                    Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation
GOE                    Government of Ethiopia
ME                     Ministry of Mines and Energy
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl                    barrel
BD                     barrels per day
CF                     cubic feet
CFD                    cubic feet per day
ft                    feet
gwh                    gigawatt hour, equivalent to
1 million kilowatt hours
kwh                    kilowatt hour
m                      meter
MMCFD                  million cubic feet per day
mT                     metric ton
mw                     megawatt, equivalent to 1,000
kilowatt hours
m3                     cubic meter
TCF                    trillion cubic feet
TSCF                   trillion standard cubic feet
TOE                    tons of oil equivalent
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr has
been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
Petroleum Exploration Promotion and Geothermal Reconnaissance Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Ethiopia
Amount:                     SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Mines and Energy
Terms:                      Standard
Project Description:        The proposed project will support the efforts of
the Ethiopian Ministry of Mines and Energy to
attract renewed exploration efforts by
international oil companies and to establish the
feasibility of geothermal energy development.  The
project consists of two components:
(a) An exploration promotion component consisting
of:
(i) technical assistance to the Ministry of
Mines and Energy in promoting Ethiopia's
petroleum potential, assisting in the
negotiation of exploration contracts with
oil companies, and monitoring the
activities of operating companies;
(ii) acquisition of about 800 line-km of
offshore seismic data and the
reprocessing of about 3,000 line-km of
existing seismic data;
(iii) training of key Ministry of Mines and
Energy staff;
(iv) special studies, particularly on the
potential use of natural gas
domestically; and
(v) equipment for the above.
(b) A geothermal reconnaissance component
consisting of:
(i) consulting services to evaluate the
feasibility of developing geothermal
sites northeast of Addis Ababa;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(ii) assistance in developing an overall
strategy for geothermal development; and
(iii) training and equipment for the above.
Risks:                      The principal risk is that the results of the
exploration promotion component may not prove
adequate inducement to encourage international oil
companies--particularly in the context of the
current market environment--to undertake renewed
exploration efforts in Ethiopia. However, given
the present and projected cost of Ethiopia's oil
imports, the level of interest expressed by oil
companies in the past in Ethiopia, the favorable
characteristics of the country's geology and the
relatively low cost of the project compared to the
amount of potential investments in petroleum
exploration which may be attracted, this risk is
considered acceptable. With respect to the
geothermal work, feasible sites may not be
established, but this risk is small in view of the
number of potential sites and the breadth of the
reconnaissance program. The training components of
the project will be of ongoing value.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign       Total
---(in US$'000)-------
Exploration Promotion Component
Consulting Services:
Specialist support for exploration
promotion activities ....................     600      1,500       2,100
Legal assistance .........................       25        200         225
Accounting/auditing assistance.........          25        200         225
Geophysical Work:
Seismic reprocessing and Landsat
imagery processing................ ....        25        900         925
New seismic survey .....................         25        800         825
Special Studies:
(including natural gas study)....* ......        50        600         650
Training ........               ........................ .  50  400       450
Vehicles and Equipment ........ .............       50        400         450
Subtotal .........              ............... .........    850  5,000  5,850
Geothermal Reconnaissance Component
Consulting Services........................         25      1,100       1,125
25        150         175
Equipment                 ....                      50        450         500
Subtotal, ........                                         ......      .......... 100  1,700  1,800
Baseline             ......................*...    950         6,700       7,650
Contingencies:
Physical ...................................    100           670         770
Price ..... ..... .o.......... **....................    150.  930      1,080
Subtotal.... ...*.*..            . .. .... ..      250      1,600       1,850
Total Project Cost ...........................   1,200         8,300 a/   9,500
Total Project Cost (net of taxes and duties)..  1,150          8,300 a/   9,450



- iv -
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign      Total
----(in US$ Millions)-----
Government ....................................   1.15         -        1.15
IDA           .....................*****    -    -  7.00                7.00
UNDP .........                                              .....      ............. -   . .1.30  1.30
Total ...............................................  1.15  8.30 a/    9.45
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Millions
IDA                       FY   84          85        86
Annual..0 .................. ......                3.2 a/      2.5       1.3
Cumulative .....                                   3.2         5 5.7     7.0
a/ Includes two PPF advances totaling US$1.0 million.
Estimated Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  None.
==  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION AND GEOTHERMAL RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
#   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of SDR 6.5 million
(US$7.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
petroleum exploration promotion and geothermal reconnaissance project.  The
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) will also assist the project with
a grant of about US$1.3 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 35526-ET, Economic
Memorandum on Ethiopia) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
December 15, 1981. Since then, a Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in
March 1983, and its findings are reflected in the following paragraphs. A
summary of social and economic data is included in Annex I.
Government Structure and Objectives
3.        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a
Military Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council,
chaired by the Head of State, and on which government ministers, peasant
associations, urban dwellers and trade unions are represented, is
responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of economic plans
and policies. In parallel with this body, a Council of Ministers is
responsible for implementation. The Government's general objectives
emphasize raising the living standard of all Ethiopians, especially the
poor, through central planning and control of the major industries, the
financial system and foreign trade, and increasing production. Emphasis is
being given to the provision of free and more widespread education,
improved health services and greater employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural land
was made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user rights
of up to ten hectares were allocated to former tenants and to others
personally willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were
either handed over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or
retained as state farms. However, state farms account for less than four
percent of cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations



with seven million members had been formed throughout the secure rural
areas. These associations decide on limited security and judicial matters
and are responsible for land redistribution and the establishment and
management of marketing and producer cooperatives. Representative
associations have been established at woreda, awraja and regional
levels.l/ Few producer cooperatives have been established so far since
the Government has been proceeding cautiously, and wishes compliance to be
voluntary.
5.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses
nationalized. Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established
to parallel the peasant associations and have been delegated similar
powers. Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned
by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to
centralized policy guidance and investment approval. The banks and
financial institutions were made subsidiaries of the National Bank of
Ethiopia. Under legislation introduced in 1979, a large part of public
enterprise profits are also reallocated centrally. The private sector
retains a role in the Ethiopian economy, notably in construction, peasant
agriculture, trade and small-scale manufacturing. Cooperative enterprises
are being encouraged in all sectors where private ownership is dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms since 1974 have  taken place against a background of
desperate poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per
capita GNP of about US$140 in 1980, is one of the least developed countries
in the world. The population, estimated at about 31.5 million in 1980 and
growing at about 2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 85
percent). The literacy rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years
primarily as a result of a literacy drive, and some 50 percent of the
population are claimed to be literate, according to Ethiopian authorities.
There is only one physician for about every 65,000 people and about 47
percent of the children of primary school age are enrolled. About two
percent of the rural population and one third of the urban population have
reasonable access to a safe water supply. In many parts of the country
soils have become seriously depleted as population pressure has forced
people to cultivate ecologically unsuitable land. As a result, many such
areas have faced periodic drought and food shortages, the severity of which
has been increasing over time. The lack of transport is such that only one
quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on foot from an
all-weather road. This low level of development itself leads to low
savings, investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; and there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the
past. However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large
scale. There are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal energy. The
country's main potential lies in agriculture, for which the natural
1/ Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 woredas (districts).



-3-
conditions of many areas are favorable. At present, around 50 percent of
GDP originates in agriculture, and most industry is also
agriculture-based. Compared with other countries at similar stages of
development, Ethiopia has a relatively skilled and trained work force, but
manpower shortages remain a constraint on development.
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.         From fiscal year 1973/74 to 1977/78, GDP grew at less than 0.5
percent per annum in real terms.  This low growth rate reflected security
problems and uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied
the economic reforms, together with ensuing difficulties in internal
marketing and distribution. The turmoil in Eritrea and the Ogaden during
1977/78 caused the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport
and communications and the diversion of resources from economic
development. Although agricultural production was maintained, the
structure of production shifted away from export crops towards food grains,
and marketed production probably declined. In the industrial sector, the
closure of factories in Eritrea Region, which formerly accounted for about
one-third of industrial production, caused a fall in output. Production
was also constrained by shortages of raw materials and spare parts,
machinery breakdowns, high managerial turnover, labor disputes and
negligible new investment. Construction activity declined. Inflation was
rapid, with consumer prices rising at an average rate of 20 percent per
annum through the three years ending mid-1978.
9.         These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained in spite of a
decline in volume largely because of the price boom in 1976/77. However,
the value of other exports declined, with the result that coffee accounted
for three-quarters of total export earnings in 1977/78. Imports on the
other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent per annum in value terms since
1973/74. However, much of this increase was attributable to drought relief
and other unspecified items, probably including military imports. The
resulting deterioration in the resource balance was financed up to and
*         including 1976/77 by external assistance, either in the form of transfers
or of net inflows of public capital. In 1977/78, the capital inflow was
reduced, and the deficit was financed largely by heavy recourse to foreign
exchange reserves, which were drawn down from the equivalent of one year's
supply of imports to about five months.
10.       The role of the Central Government and the public sector
increased significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 12
percent of GDP in the early seventies, reached 22 percent of GDP in
1977/78. At the same time, the Government was forced to increase its
reliance on domestic borrowing. The growth in recurrent expenditure was
largely attributable to military needs, which reached 66 percent of total
recurrent outlays in 1977/78. Other current spending was kept under strict
control. Central Government capital spending increased steadily (except in
1977/78, the year of the emergency (para. 8)), with road construction and
agriculture as the main areas of emphasis. In addition, a large part of



-4-
the increase in bank credit to the non-central Government sector was
accounted for by public enterprises (especially the state farms).
11.       Modern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of
peasant farmers increased. Correspondingly, urban real wages probably
fell. While the salaries of approximately the top ten percent of public
sector employees were frozen, the Government permitted the wages of lower
paid workers to rise.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had
emerged or intensified. It was against this background that, in September
1978, the Government introduced the first "economic campaign" with the
objectives of: (i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying
efforts in the organizations dealing with the peasant sector, and by
doubling state farm area; (ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by
strengthening afforestation, rehabilitation and resettlement programs;
(iii) eliminating current shortages of consumer items and certain
construction materials; (iv) improving the efficiency of government
agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign exchange availability
by promoting exports. Physical production targets for each of the key
sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of resources, and
partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organizations
concerned.
13.        The economic campaigns clearly recognized the priority of the
productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. The fitst campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 18). This was followed by two further
campaigns in the fiscal years 1979/80 and 1980/81. The Government is now
considering the ways and means to integrate such campaigns or action
programs into a more comprehensive multi-year planning process. A ten-year
perspective plan is being prepared to serve as the frame of reference for
the development of a three-year investment plan.
Recent Economic Developments
14.        The Ethiopian economy recorded a significant recovery in 1978/79
after several years of slow growth. During the three year period ending in
fiscal year 1980/81, real GDP growth averaged nearly five percent per
year. However, this short but impressive performance began to slow down
in 1980/81, with GDP growth falling to 3.2 percent and dropping further to
2.5 percent in 1981/82. This deceleration in economic growth is mainly
attributable to the drought which affected agriculture, exhaustion of
existing capacity in industry and inadequate investment in general.
Agriculture grew at rates of about 2.4 percent and 2.0 percent
respectively during the fiscal year 1980/81 and 1981/82 as compared with
almost 4.9 percent during 1979/80. Manufacturing industry grew by about
5.6 percent and 4.1 percent respectively in the fiscal years 1980/81 and
1981/82 as against 10.5 percent during 1979/80.  Although investment has



- 5 -
been rising slowly during the recent past, it was still at a low level of
about 10.7 percent of GDP during 1981/82. Domestic savings have averaged
about four percent of GDP over the three year period ending in 1980/81, but
fell to 2.6 percent in 1981/82. Given the present constraints on domestic
resources, the low level of external resource transfers, and unpredictable
weather conditions, GDP growth is not likely to exceed 4 percent per annum
in the short and medium term.
15.       Ethiopia's current account deficit on external transactions had
remained under 6 percent of GDP during the recent years through 1980/81,
despite a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. This was achieved by
increasing the volume of coffee exports and by keeping imports under
control. The external trade picture has however worsened with declining
export earnings and rising import expenditures. The principal cause for
this unfavorable trend in export earnings has been the sharp decline in
coffee prices. They declined in 1980/81 by as much as 25 percent below the
1979/80 level and led to a 17 percent drop in coffee export earnings,
despite an increase in volume. Largely as a result of this, export
earnings fell by 11 percent in 1980/81 in relation to the previous year's
level. Export earnings witnessed a further decline by 7 percent in 1981/82
mainly due to the drop in the volume of coffee exports. Meanwhile imports
increased marginally in 1980/81 over the previous years level, but recorded
a 10 percent increase in value in 1981/82, largely due to sharp increases
in the value of capital and consumer goods imports. As a result,
Ethiopia's current account deficit began to widen significantly in 1981/82
to about US$318 million or to over 7 percent of GDP. The deterioration in
the external account was however cushioned by a significant increase in
long-term capital (from US$110 million in 1980/81 to US$245 million),
reflecting in large part a disbursement of concessional loans from various
sources and by a moderate increase in grant aid to a level of about US$90
million. As a result, Ethiopia's external assets increased by US$60
-million during 1981/82, to a level equivalent to 2.5 months of import
expenditure. However, external reserves are likely to plunge to a much
lower level (possibly of the order of 1.5 months of import costs) by the
end of the current fiscal year 1982/83, in the face of continued balance of
payments difficulties. Ethiopia's external debt service ratio had been of
the order of 6 percent of export earnings during the recent past. This,
however, increased to about 9.7 percent in 1981/82, as export earnings
declined and more debt service payments fell due.
16.       The government budget took a favorable turn, with revenue
increasing from about US$842 million equivalent in 1980/81 to about U$892
million in 1981/82, or about 19.7 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, current
expenditure as a proportion of GDP declined from 18.8 percent in 1980/81 to
18.3 percent in 1981/82 and thus led to a current surplus of 1.4 percent of
GDP -- the highest in recent years. The overall deficit increased by
nearly US$ 47 million in 1981/82 due to a 33 percent increase in capital
expenditures; this deficit of US$ 220 million (equivalent to 5 percent of
GDP) was financed almost entirely from external resources. There are,
however, indications of a major leap in current expenditure during fiscal
year 1982/83, which could reverse the record of current account surpluses
achieved during the past four fiscal years.



- 6 -
17.       The growth of money supply (defined as money and quasi-money) has
been contained at moderate levels since 1978/79, as the National Bank of
Ethiopia reduced the rate of domestic credit expansion and began to monitor
the allocation of credit to priority sectors. Over the three year period
ending in 1980/81, the expansion in money supply has averaged about seven
percent per year.  Money supply has continued to be under tight control;
during 1980/81 and 1981/82 it increased by only 1.9 and 11 percent,
respectively.  The rate of domestic inflation as measured by the Addis
Ababa retail price index has declined from levels between 12 and 13 percent
in 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 6.7 percent in 1981/82.
18.        The economic revival in 1978/79 can be attributed to various
factors. First, the return of comparative peace and security in late 1978
permitted the reallocation of resources, to normal economic activity.
Secondly, several industries in Eritrea were reopened and resupplied.
Thirdly, there were good harvest years in the main grain-producing areas.
Finally, the Government's economic campaigns had a discernible effect in at
least two directions; in giving clear indications of priorities and
allocating resources accordingly, and in greatly improving discipline and
management in many of the public sector enterprises. More recently, several
policy reforms designed to promote economic growth and efficiency have got
underway. The Joint Venture Code on which the Government has been working
for the past few months was published in the form of a proclamation in
January 1983. The object of this proclamation is to provide a framework to
promote joint ventures between foreign investors and local public sector
enterprises. Noteworthy progress has also been made by Government to
simplify the present system involving fifteen categories of
turnover/transaction taxes into four categories. As regards direct taxes,
the approach being followed by Government is to improve upon the existing
system operated through peasant associations. It is likely that assessment
of taxes will be carried out directly by the Government leaving the
collection function with the peasant associations.
19.       On the whole Ethiopia faces a difficult future.  First, interna-
tional economic conditions are unfavorable and the terms of trade are
expected to continue to deteriorate at least in the short-to-medium-
term particularly because of low prices for coffee -- Ethiopia's principal
export. Second, the low level of investment during the past few years is
now beginning to constrain further increases in domestic production. The
rapid production increases particularly in 1978/79 and 1979/80 have been
largely attributable to improved utilization of existing capacity.
Third, external assistance commitments are not rising fast enough to
support significant increases in investment or to sustain higher import
levels (para. 22). The Government has taken a number of steps since late
1982 to arrest this deteriorating economic situation. First the
Government's planning focus has been shifted from a ten-year horizon to the
short term, with the objective of preparing two and three year public
investment program, with clearly defined strategies, policies and project
proposals for financing over the medium term. Second, the Government has
been emphasizing the importance of revitalizing agriculture through farmer
incentives and improved technology; the need to restore confidence among
private entrepreneurs engaged in small scale industry to draw them into the
mainstream of development; and the need to attract foreign investment and
technology to help develop the country's natural resources. Third, the



- 7 -
Government reassigned its ministers and key officials in April 1983 to help
accelerate the pace of economic development.
Government Programs
20.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs
and projects, some of which had been under preparation before the
revolution and then subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor,
especially in rural areas. In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop
smallholder agriculture, rehabilitate drought-affected areas, and to
develop export and industrial crops. In the manufacturing sector,
increased emphasis has been given to small-scale, cottage and handicraft
industries, and to the production of mass consumer goods. Road
construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards rural roads. A
plan for education covering the period 1976 to 1989 is being implenented
and emphasizes primary and non-formal education with increased cultural,
economic and social relevance. Enrollments at all levels have been
increasing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural areas which
were relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health and water
supply programs are being expanded, and the Government has been preparing
programs to improve urban housing and services, especially for low-income
groups. In mid-1979, the Government launched a nationwide literacy
campaign. Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its relief
operations.
21.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (paras. 4 and 5) is a less tangible
achievement but one which may be of great long-run significance. These
organizations provide a basis upon which the Government can build and
accelerate its development effort, with emphasis on the poorest social
groups. It is true that the peasant associations and kebeles will need
additional support to enable them to carry out some of their tasks, such as
land redistribution, the establishment of cooperative farms and trading
activity. Nevertheless, some of their potential is already being realized;
they are playing a significant role in the construction of primary schools,
training centers, clinics, and rural roads, in reafforestation and
conservation activity, and in the organization of literacy campaigns and
other self-help projects.
External Assistance
22.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. Perhaps mainly because of
this, the level of capital inflows to Ethiopia has been very low. In 1979,
for example, disbursements of net official development assistance to
Ethiopia amounted to less than US$6 equivalent per capita, compared with
receipts of over US$20 per capita for low income countries taken together.
Ethiopia, however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development



-8-
(paras. 10 and 20); it has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of
non-essentials and increased taxes significantly to contribute to security
and developmental needs.
23.       Excluding military debt service, for which no information is
available, the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has
remained low (about six percent in 1980/81) because of the relatively low
level of external loan commitments in recent years, and the tendency of
some donors to shift to support on grant terms. But as noted earlier, it
has begun to increase -- it reached a level of 9.7 percent in 1981/82.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed was about US$949 million at December
31, 1982. The Bank Group was for some years the largest source of loans
and credits, but in recent years, the European Economic Community, the
African Development Bank, the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic
and Czechoslovakia have expanded their support, and development assistance
is continuing from Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy.
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at about SDR26.4 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF
stood at about SDR54.0 million. In May 1981, a stand-by arrangement for
Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved by the
IMF to support an 18-month program that was designed to sustain a
reasonable rate of economic growth, strengthen overall fiscal performance
and help improve the balance of payments in the medium-term. The standby
was fully disbursed and all the performance criteria met. In addition,
Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan have concluded debt forgiveness
arrangements with Ethiopia.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
24.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$571
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1983, consisting of 27 IDA
credits totalling about US$447 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million.  Much                        =
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to an interruption in new
lending (para. 30). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
From 1973 to 1977, IBRD's and IDA's combined share of gross disbursements
of public medium- and long-term loans increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3
percent. However, these data tend to exaggerate somewhat the dependence on
the Bank, since they exclude the growing tendency of other donors to give
capital assistance on grant terms. IBRD's share of total public debt
outstanding and disbursed as of December 1982 has been estimated at about 5
percent, and IDA's at 33 percent. Their shares of total debt service in
1981 have been estimated at about 9 percent and 4 percent, respectively.
25.        Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. In the past decade, nine
credits totalling US$173 million have supported agricultural production and
marketing. The most recent one (Cr.1088-ET) is assisting the agricultural
minimum package program, which represents the core of the Government's



-9-
development plans for peasant agriculture. In addition, the last three
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development.
26.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the
Lower Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the
Drought Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). The Lower Adiabo Project made no
progress, and therefore the credit was closed. The latter two, however,
made reasonable progress.  Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly
continue to have strong management. Financial problems have also occurred,
but have been remedied in most cases. In addition, the economic and social
reforms introduced since 1974 (para. 4) necessitated changes in a number of
projects and, together with management and staffing constraints, have
caused implementation delays and postponement of closing dates. Such
changes hindered progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and
the credit was closed. However, the changes have sometimes had beneficial
impacts on the projects in question; for example, the scope of the Coffee
Processing Project (290-ET) was widened to include existing coffee washing
stations taken over under the land reform.
27.       General problems, such as rising labor costs and occasional
shortages of construction materials, have also detracted from efficient
project implementation. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have often been successful in
efforts to overcome these problems. Ethiopia's overall record on project
implementation compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern
Africa Region. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and
IFC investments, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern
Africa Region.
29.       We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth
and equity-oriented objectives and focus particularly on projects which in-
crease productive capacity in agriculture and industry or provide essential
infrastructure. An urban development project has recently been approved.
A second coffee processing and marketing project to increase Ethiopia's
foreign exchange earnings and raise the incomes of smallholder coffee grow-
ers by improving the quality of coffee produced, has been appraised. In
addition, two other projects have been appraised -- a second road sector
project designed to help strengthen Ethiopia's transport infrastructure and a
sixth telecommunications project designed to expand rural
telecommunications services, the long distance network and installations
for international telecommunications. An agricultural research project to
help expand agricultural research and strengthen existing research
capabilities and efforts, is under preparation. A sixth education project
is also under preparation and will support the Government's efforts to
improve the quality, quantity and relevance of the country's education



- 10 -
programs. A third power project is being prepared to help develop domestic
energy resources to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing economy.
Compensation
30.      In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either partly
or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be in the
public interest. Petroleum companies operating in Ethiopia at the time were
not affected by these nationalizations. The Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners and established a Compensation
Commission in early 1976 to receive and review claims, and to negotiate and
reach settlement agreements with former owners. Much time passed, however,
with little evident progress being made. Because of this, no new lending
proposals for Ethiopia were presented to the Board between April 1978 and
December 1980, when a concrete beginning to resolve the issue was made. Since
then, significant progress has been made. IFC has negotiated a share-purchase
agreement with the Ethiopian Government in respect of its shares in the
Metahara Sugar Company and the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. IFC's partner in
Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, has agreed on a settlement
with the Compensation Commission. IFC's major partner in the Textile Mills, a
Japanese company, has also agreed on a settlement with the Commission. The
Commission has also entered into negotiations with a number of other claimants
and has reached settlements with a major American claimant, three German
claimants, and two small Japanese and American claimants. In addition, the
Ethiopian Government has agreed with the Italian Government on an arrangement
to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
31.      Although Ethiopia has great hydro-power potential, its actual use of
fuelwood, crop residues and animal dung is excessive in relation to the
limited supply of these energy sources. The economic hydro-power potential is
considered to be in the range of 15,000 mw to 30,000 mw, which means it is one
of the world's largest. In addition, a favorable combination of topographic
characteristics and rainfall patterns permits much of this potential to be
developed at low cost. The Bank Group has assisted in the development of
hydro-power resources with two power projects, one at Awash and one at
Finchaa, both serving the Addis Ababa-based grid.
32.      Ethiopia's other dominant proved energy resource is fuelwood.
However, demand for fuelwood resources in the past has been so great that the
country's forestry reserves, which once covered much of the country, have been
seriously depleted. They now cover about 4 million hectares, or only
3.5 percent of the national territory. Forests which remain are concentrated
in the southwest of the country. There is a serious need for reforestation
programs, and this is a government priority.
33.      Crop residues, including bagasse from sugarcane and other plants, and
animal dung comprise important energy sources in Ethiopia. Even though these
are already extensively utilized, significant quantities of these residues are
burnt as waste. Collected and burned more efficiently, these residues offer a



- 11 -
relatively simple source of additional energy to the country. Reliant solar
energy is plentiful but the prospect for direct commercial utilization is
limited. Wind is not a significant energy source. Lignite deposits have been
identified in several provinces, but these deposits are dispersed, and there
is no economically attractive prospect for their development.
34.      The potential for oil and gas resources has been established.  Four
sedimentary basins have been identified. Of these, the two most promising are
the Red Sea Basin to the north and the Ogaden Basin in the southeast of the
country; the other two are in southwest-central Ethiopia and in the Dinder
area to the northwest. Surface petroleum seepages have been documented in the
northern part of the Ogaden, and oil and gas shows have been detected in
exploratory wells. In southeastern Sudan, near the Ethiopian border,
significant reserves of petroleum have recently been discovered.
Energy Use
35.      Total consumption of energy in Ethiopia was estimated at 10.1 million
tons of oil equivalent (TOE) in 1981; commercial energy consumption was
estimated at 775,000 TOE. The total energy figure was then equivalent to
0.3 TOE per capita. These figures are very low in comparison to other
countries, including African countries. Over the 1976-81 period, consumption
of total energy grew at 2.2 percent per annum; the rate of growth of
consumption by the industrial sector has been somewhat greater, at 4.4 percent
per annum.
36.      The use of energy in Ethiopia is presently based almost entirely on
the consumption of fuelwood and other biomass. The household sector accounts
for 92 percent of total energy consumption. Notwithstanding the dominance of
hydro-power potential in Ethiopia's energy resources (see Table I below),
hydro-power accounts for only 2 percent of primary energy consumption but
accounts for 73 percent of electricity generating capacity and nearly
80 percent of generation. Electricity consumption in 1981 totalled 657 gwh or
approximately 20 kwh per capita, which is one of the lowest per-capita levels
in Africa.
37.      Petroleum accounts for 6 percent of primary energy use.  All
A        petroleum is imported; some refined petroleum products are re-exported.  In
1981, total petroleum imports cost Ethiopia US$178 million, while US$41
million (23 percent) was earned from re-exports. The net imports of US$137
million were equivalent to 26 percent of total exports in that year.
38.      Ethiopia's energy resources and uses are summarized in the following
table:



- 12 -
Table 1: Energy Resources and Use, 1981
Resources             Use (Primary Energy)
TOE (millions)  Percent      TOE ('000)   Percent
Hydro-power ..................        928          57             169          2
Natural gas. .......... 0.... ..       37            2            -           -
Petroleum... ............              -           -              606          6
Coal and lignite ..........                                       -           -
Geothermal ene rgy ..........-                     -              -           -
Fuelwood .....................        471          29           5,467         54
Bagasse......................           3          -               70         -
Other organic residues.......         189           12          3,785         38
Total....................           1,628         100          10,097        100
Sources: The Ethiopian National Energy Committee, Ethiopian Electric Light
and Power Authority, and mission estimates.
39.      Domestic demand for crude petroleum and petroleum products is
projected to grow at over 4 percent per annum during 1983-87 and by
approximately 3 percent per annum thereafter. This implies gross imports of
the order of 1 million mT by 1987 and 1.2 million mT by 1992; net imports (net
of re-exports of refined products) would reach 0.9 million mT by 1992 (vs.
0.6 million mT for 1982). Unless domestic petroleum resources are identified
and developed, it is estimated that the value of petroleum imports (net of
re-exports of petroleum products) would grow over US$500 million (in current
prices) by 1992.
Sector Institutions
40.      The Ministry of Mines and Energy is the principal agency of the
Government of Ethiopia concerned with the energy sector at the operating
level. This Ministry supervises: (a) the electricity sub-sector through its
control over the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority; (b) petroleum
refining through the Ethiopian Petroleum Company; and (c) hydrocarbon,
geothermal and coal/lignite exploration and other geological survey work
through the Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys. This Ministry also
chairs the interministerial Ethiopian National Energy Committee, which has
formal responsibility for renewable energy development and energy policy
studies. The Forestry and Wildlife Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture
has responsibility for forest management, including reforestation. Policy
decisions on energy pricing and investment are made at a level above the
Ministry by the Central Planning Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers;
in some cases, such decisions require approval by the Head of State.
41.      The Ministry of Mines and Energy has been the recipient of several
recent bilateral assistance programs and, while there is need for continued
support for technical assistance--including along the lines proposed in the
present project--this Ministry can be described as relatively well-organized



- 13 -
and well-managed. The Permanent Secretary is in charge of planning, finance,
personnel, administrative and legal services within the Ministry and
supervises the power, refinery and minerals corporations and the Institute of
Geological Surveys described above. The Ministry of Mines and Energy
maintains a library of geologic and geophysical information together with
samples from earlier drilling activities (a "core shed").
Government Strategy in the Energy Sector
42.      The Government attaches high priority to accelerated development of
its domestic energy resources. It has recently commissioned a major review of
hydro-power development (by Acres, Inc., of Canada).  In conjunction with the
present project, it is making a coordinated effort to review its hydrocarbon
potential and attract significant investment to this sector (para. 64). It
has also maintained an ongoing effort to establish the feasibility of
developing its geothermal resources, as described further below.
43.      Present planning objectives allocate substantial amounts of energy-
related investment for electricity development to replace petroleum product
consumption in the industrial sector and fuelwood/charcoal consumption in the
urban residential sector. Hydrocarbon and geothermal exploration would be
accelerated with the expectation that the bulk of future oil exploration
expenditures would be undertaken by foreign companies. Reforestation covering
3.1 million hectares is also planned, 85 percent of which is expected to be
carried out under self-help and communal schemes. Efforts to improve the
efficiency of fuelwood and charcoal use are also contemplated. These
objectives will be more thoroughly reviewed by a World Bank energy assessment
mission now visiting Ethiopia. An Energy Assessment Report will be prepared
on the basis of this mission's work.
44.      Review of coordination between the energy planning process at the
national level and the determination of policies and investment priorities by
the ministries and agencies involved (notably the Ministry of Mines and Energy
and the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority) and pricing issues in
the energy sector will also be addressed by the energy assessment mission.
The report of the assessment mission will provide a focus for future Bank
Group dialogue with Ethiopia on energy issues.
Energy Pricing
45.      Petroleum product prices are Government-controlled at the refinery,
wholesale and retail stages. They have changed in line with increases in the
CIF import cost of crude oil and petroleum products, as a result of which
retail prices of petroleum products in Ethiopia are reasonably in line with
international levels. One significant exception is kerosene which, for social
reasons and in order to stimulate its substitution for wood fuels, is sold at
77 percent of import cost. Petroleum product prices are summarized in Table 2
below:



- 14 -
Table 2: Petroleum Product Prices (US$/US Gallon), November 1982
Retail Prices        Avg. Int'l.        Border
Addis Ababa      Retail Prices a/    Prices -
Premium gasoline .........      2.36              2.44              1.22
Kerosene ......... ,...... .    1.20              1.27              1.29
Diesel .............. .......   1.45              1.44              1.21
Fuel oil .................      0.99              0.85              0.70
a/ Prices reflect the averages from 61 selected countries for 1981.
b/  CIF import cost plus insurance and various charges.
46.      Price distortions in the electricity sector are more prevalent.
Average tariffs in the country's power grid (USt5.4 equivalent/kwh) have
remained unchanged since 1978 despite inflation which has averaged 7 percent
per annum. Low-volume residential consumption is subsidized by higher tariffs
on industrial consumption. The Eritrea Region electricity grid in the north
of the country is diesel-based and operates on a much higher cost basis than
the Addis Ababa grid system, which is hydro-based.
47.      The Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority currently finances
just over 10 percent of its investment from internal cash flow. To cover the
full cost of system operation and expansion, the Power Authority would have to
increase tariffs substantially during the 1983-90 period. An electricity
tariff study under preparation, financed by the European Development Fund,
should help provide the basis for an appropriate electricity pricing policy.
The adequacy of electricity tariffs would also be reviewed in the course of
preparing the proposed third power project (para. 29).
Demand and Supply of Petroleum
48.      Consumption of petroleum products in 1982 was estimated at 650,000 mT
(approximately 13,000 BD). Following sharp declines during the 1974-76 period
of the Ethiopian Revolution, consumption of petroleum products increased at
average annual rates of the order of 8 percent per annum.  More recently, as a
result of price increases and slower rates of overall economic growth, the
growth in demand for petroleum has dropped to about one-half this rate.
Diesel accounts for one-half of all petroleum products consumed, and one-half
of diesel consumed is used for transportation. The next largest use of diesel
is for electric power generation, primarily in the Eritrea Region's system and
for remote areas outside the Addis Ababa grid system. The other major
products consumed, in order of importance, are gasoline (19 percent of total
petroleum product consumption), fuel oil (17 percent), aviation fuel (11.5
percent) and kerosene and liquid petroleum gas (2.5 percent). Fuel oil is
used primarily by the industrial sector and, to a lesser extent, also in the
generation of power.
49.      All petroleum requirements in Ethiopia are met from imports.  In
1982, imports were estimated at 840,000 mT (approximately 6 million bbl, or
16,800 BD); the difference between this figure and domestic consumption
represents refinery re-exports (para. 50). Of total imports, 82 percent



- 15 -
represented crude oil for domestic refining and 18 percent petroleum
products. Most crude imports are purchased from the Soviet Union at
preferential prices and based on long-term contracts. Certain grades of
petroleum products are imported from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
50.      Ethiopia's only oil refinery, at Assab on the Red Sea, is run by the
Government-owned Ethiopian Petroleum Company and has a throughput capacity of
14,500 BD. Recently, output from the refinery has been significantly below
capacity, in part because of the use of relatively heavier crudes than those
for which the refinery was designated. Exportable surpluses of fuel oil from
the refinery are about 190,000 mT (approximately 1.4 million bbl) and are sold
to markets around the Mediterranean and east of Suez.
51.      The refinery unit is a simple topping plant, relatively old,
constructed by the Soviet Union. Output from the plant is 45 percent fuel
oil, 30 percent diesel, 15 percent gasoline, and 10 percent other products.
This output mix is not closely congruent with that of consumption, which is
weighted much more heavily toward lighter products, such as gasoline. Because
of the age of the facility, operations are quite inefficient: fuel
consumption and losses are equivalent to 8 to 10 percent of the crude
processed. The Government is considering modernizing the Assab refinery in
order to improve the product mix and hydrocarbon recovery and to lower
operating costs.
Geology of Ethiopia
52.      Ethiopia's total land area is 1.2 million km2 of which sedimentary
areas cover about 30 percent, or 350,000 km2. The Red Sea comprises an
additional area of approximately 78,000 km2 of which the shelf (water depths
below 200 m) accounts for about 62 percent, or 48,000 km2.
53.      On the basis of the results of past exploration and present knowledge
of the country's geology, its petroleum potential can be regarded as
favorable. The main features of the geology of Ethiopia are summarized in
Annex IV attached, and are shown in IBRD Map No. 17215, also attached.
54.      Four areas of Ethiopia are underlain by marine sediments which could
contain oil-bearing reservoirs:  the Red Sea coast and offshore islands, the
Ogaden area in the southeast of the country, the Dinder area in the northwest,
and the Gambela Promontory in the southwest.
55.      As long ago as 1868, oil seepages were recognized on the western
coast of the peninsula of Busi on the Red Sea coast southeast of Massawa.
Later, oil seeps were noted in the seas around the Dahlak Archipelago. The
Ogaden has been of geologic interest in terms of petroleum prospecting since
1920. Recent discoveries by Chevron in the Sudan across the Ethiopian border
from the Gambela Promontory have increased interest in the potential of this
area.
Exploration History
56.      In the 1930s, the Sinclair Petroleum Company obtained a concession
over the whole of Ethiopia. Sinclair drilled a total of twelve wells and
proved the existence of some oil in one well in the Ogaden before



- 16 -
discontinuing operations. Work in the Ogaden was interrupted by World War II
but later pursued by several other companies, including Tenneco from
1969-77. Tenneco drilled eight wells and encountered significant gas
production at one (Calub-1). However, Tenneco concluded that developing the
Calub gas discovery would be worthwhile only if total reserves exceeded by
several times those estimated. Tenneco reli'nquished all holdings in 1977.
57.      Work in the Red Sea area also dates from the 1930s when AGIP drilled
a number of holes in the Dahlak Archipelago, some of which had good oil
shows. These operations ceased during and after World War II. In the early
1960s, Mobil acquired and explored blocks in the Red Sea. One of Mobil's
wells drilled offshore in 1969 hit considerable quantities of gas, blew out
and had to be abandoned. Before a relief well could be drilled, the well
collapsed and sealed. Because Mobil was looking for oil, it relinquished this
holding in 1970.
58.      Mobil's efforts were followed by Gulf (1964-70); several smaller
companies and Shell (1974-77). These companies flew approximately 15,000 km
of aerial magnetic surveys, collected 20,000 km of marine seismic data, and
drilled five wells. While there were repeated oil and gas shows, there were
no significant petroleum discoveries.
59.      After 1977, when Tenneco surrendered its acreage in the Ogaden, all
exploration activity in Ethiopia came to a halt for four years. At present,
two exploration areas are leased out. The Calub area in the Ogaden region,
covering about 10,000 km2, is being explored by a Soviet geological team under
a bilateral government agreement.  A seismic survey has been carried out and a
program of wells begun. The other area covers the Gambela Promontory close to
the Sudan, which has been leased to Chevron. The exploration license provides
that Chevron will undertake aerial magnetic and gravimetric survey works and
to proceed to seismic studies if the results of these works are positive.
Drilling will depend on the results of the seismic studies.
60.      A total of twenty-one deep wells have been drilled in the Ogaden and
eight in the Red Sea area (in addition to AGIP's drilling program of the early
30s). These wells are described in more detail in Annex IV. Considering the
size of the sedimentary areas of the country and the history of oil and gas
shows from past drilling, it is clear that the country remains underexplored.
Legal/Contractual Framework
61.      In Ethiopia, legislation pertaining to petroleum activities is
contained in legislation for the mining industry. While some mining
activities are reserved exclusively for the Government, exploration and
production of oil and gas can be undertaken jointly with it. Exploration was
originally authorized through a system of licenses, either under a non-
exclusive prospecting permit or an exploration license granting exclusive
rights for minerals specified within a defined area for a period of time
(e.g., two years). More recently, oil companies have worked under special
agreements which incorporated elements of production licenses as part of the
initial exploration license, minimum work programs, compulsory relinquishment,
and reporting requirements.



- 17 -
62.      At present, a number of distinct and in some respects overlapping
statutes, regulations and amendments govern the development of petroleum and
gas resources in Ethiopia. Separate petroleum legislation would be desirable
to establish a clear framework for exploration and production. Preparation of
a model agreement to accompany such legislation setting forth all important
rights and obligations and which could serve as a basis for negotiations with
interested oil companies would also likely serve to facilitate any such future
discussions. Both of these needs would be addressed as a part of the legal
assistance in the proposed project.
Government's Approach to Petroleum Exploration
63.      The Revolution of 1974-75, together with subsequent security problems
in the Eritrea region in the north and along the Somali border in the south,
discouraged petroleum exploration work in the late seventies. With the
security issues less serious now, the Government is committed to encouraging
new petroleum exploration.
64.      The Government recognizes that it is dependent upon the resources of
international petroleum companies for any significantly intensified
exploration effort, and it has decided to embark on a full exploration
promotion program to attract foreign oil companies. In general, the
Government and the oil companies doing business in Ethiopia have cooperated
well in the past, and the oil companies were not affected by the
nationalizations in early 1975. The promotion program consists of reviewing
the results of past exploration activities and collecting new seismic data
which is expected to provide new leads for exploration.  Simultaneously,
the legal framework and accounting practices of the country relating to
petroleum operations would also be brought in line with prevailing
international practice. The oil companies would be invited to submit bids for
exploration acreage on the basis of the data provided and under the proposed
legal framework.
65.      In order to implement this program, the Government has obtained
advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)1/. An exploration
consulting firm (BEICIP of France), a legal firm (Butler, Binion, Rice, Cook
and Knapp of Washington, D. C.), and accounting consultants (Coopers &
Lybrand, United Kingdom) were retained. BEICIP has proposed a systematic
approach to attracting petroleum companies to initiate new exploration
activities in the country. In addition to a full compilation of existing
geological and geophysical data, existing seismic data from the Ogaden and the
Red Sea areas would be reprocessed and a small new seismic survey undertaken
in the Red Sea. A complementary marine seismic survey is proposed for the
northern part of the Red Sea on which no seismic data is available. This
program of work would be the minimal program necessary to effectively promote
petroleum exploration in Ethiopia. The legal and exploration consultants have
produced preliminary reports which provide a basis for preparing a revised
legal framework for petroleum operations in Ethiopia.  The accounting
consultants have also commenced work.
1/ One PPF advance of US$400,000 was approved in June 1982, and a second PPF
of US$600,000 was approved in early March 1983.



- 18 -
66.      Preparation of work already undertaken by the consultants together
with the support proposed in this project should make it possible to assemble
complete exploration promotion packages prior to end-1983 (see Schedule of
Implementation, Annex V attached).
Geothermal Exploration in Ethiopia
67.      The Rift Valley of Ethiopia, which extends from southern Lake Turkana
in northern Kenya to Djibouti and Massawa on the Red Sea coast (see map
attached), has several recently active volcanic complexes that are considered
prime prospects for geothermal investigation.
68.      Geothermal power can play a useful role in the development of
Ethiopia's power sector. The cost of geothermal energy has been estimated to
be well below the cost of diesel-generated power in Ethiopia. While the long-
term grid energy cost of hydro-power in the country is estimated at
USd4.4/kwh,l/ less than geothermal energy, geothermal energy can serve as a
power source complementary to hydroelectric. Geothermal power can be
developed in increments as small as 5 megawatts (mw) to 10 mw, compared to new
hydro-power sites which often must be developed in increments of 150 mw to
200 mw at correspondingly greater total cost. The security of the power
system can be increased by including a power source whose capability is
unaffected by drought, and the use of geothermal energy permits greater
flexibility in accommodating trade-offs between irrigation needs and power
demands in the hydro-system. Particularly where quantities of low-temperature
heat can also be utilized, such as in crop drying, energy from geothermal
sources may be an attractive alternative to conventional energy sources.
69.      Geothermal exploration began in 1970.  A general reconnaissance
survey of the Rift Valley was undertaken in 1970-73, supported by the United
Nations. This survey located and documented a large number of geothermal
areas. Based on the results of the reconnaissance survey, the Alutu (Langano)
area of the Lakes District, south of Addis Ababa, was selected for pre-
feasibility work (1975-80) and subsequently feasibility study (1980 to the
present). A separate project was begun in 1980 in the Tendaho area (between
Addis Ababa and the Red Sea).
70.      The need remains to complete the survey process (as recommended in
the 1973 United Nations Report) at other geothermal sites which were
identified and which are situated such as to be capable of generating power on
terms economically competitive with conventional sources. Among these sites
is the southern Afar region approximately 100 km to 200 km northeast of Addis
Ababa. Evaluation of these prospects at the same time as the work being
conducted in the Lakes District and Tendaho has the advantage of minimizing
the amount of time which should be necessary to establish the most technically
and economically feasible site for the geothermal generation of electric power
for input into the power grid.
1/ By Acres, Inc., of Canada (1982), in conjunction with a major planning
review of the hydrocarbon sector through the year 2000. The calculated
hydro-power cost is based both on increasing output from existing dams,
and from added generating capacity from the construction of new dams.
Diesel-generated power cost estimates are also by Acres.



- 19 -
IDA's Role
71.      The Government's approach to both exploration promotion and
geothermal work is basically sound and deserves support. Successful
implementation of the exploration promotion component depends upon qualified
technical assistance to help compile and interpret available information,
negotiate with oil companies on a knowledgeable basis and monitor their future
activities. Assistance is also critical to completing the Government's
geothermal reconnaissance and evaluation effort. IDA's role would be to
assist the Ministry of Mines and Energy in providing this expertise and in
training the Ministry's staff.
PART V - THE PROJECT
72.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of consultants. The project was first appraised in November 1982,
and appraisal was completed in January 1983. A Credit and Project Summary is
given at the beginning of this Report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached in Annex III. There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
73.      Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C., from May 4 to May 7,
1983. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Assefa Tilahun, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Energy, and included Ato Ashebir Teferra,
Head, Legal Department, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives
74.      The project is to support the efforts of the Ethiopian Ministry of
Mines and Energy to attract renewed exploration efforts by international oil
companies and to establish the feasibility of geothermal energy development.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) strengthen the technical capability of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy in developing and supervising a petroleum
exploration program;
.
(b) provide assistance in promoting and offering prospective
acreage to interested companies; and
(c) provide assistance to continue work in evaluating the
country's geothermal prospects.
Project Description
75.      The project consists of two basic components--exploration promotion
and geothermal reconnaissance. The exploration promotion component consists
of:
(a) Consulting Services. A firm experienced in petroleum
exploration would be employed (140 man-months) to compile
and reinterpret all surface and subsurface information
gathered by previously active oil companies; to supervise
field geophysical work, seismic reprocessing, and analyses



- 20
(geochemical, sedimentologic and paleontologic) necessary
for data reinterpretation; to define and prepare an
exploration strategy; to prepare promotion reports for sale
to interested companies and associated tender documents; to
promote offered blocks and negotiate with oil companies; to
interpret and integrate with existing information data
acquired from new exploration activities; and to monitor
contractors' work obligations. In addition, the
exploration consultants will assist in the training of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy staff.
Approximately eight man-months of legal advisory
services are provided to recommend amendments to existing
legislation which would incorporate current worldwide
practices; to prepare a model exploration/production
agreement; and to provide, in cooperation with the
exploration consultants, assistance to the Government
during future negotiations with interested oil companies.
A petroleum accounting/auditing firm would provide
approximately eight man-months of accounting services to
review the existing petroleum accounting system of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy; to design an improved system
to monitor the performance of work and financial
commitments of oil companies with activities in the
country; to implement the designed system and train the
Ministry's staff in its operation; and to supervise the
system's operation on a periodic basis.
(b) Geophysical Work.  It is proposed that approximately 3,000
line-km of old seismic data from the Red Sea and Ogaden
Basin be reprocessed. Approximately 800 line-km of new
seismic lines in the Red Sea area are also included in the
project. New-seismic data from the Ogaden is not
considered necessary to promotion of this area because of
the greater number of, and more recent, seismic surveys
which have been undertaken there.  As a result, no physical
activity in the Ogaden is included in the project.
(c) Training. Training would be provided to the Ministry of
Mines and Energy staff on the job by the exploration
consultants, the accounting advisers and the geothermal
specialists. In addition, short training courses overseas
in petroleum exploration techniques and laboratory
procedures would be included, Six two-year scholarships
are also included to cover studies leading to degrees in
petroleum-related fields in academic programs acceptable to
IDA.
(d) Special Studies.  These studies would include a market and
feasibility survey for the use of natural gas resources in
the domestic economy,  This information would be important
in connection with assessing the economics of development
of potential gas reservoirs in the Red Sea and Ogaden
areas. The Government would consult with IDA on the
conclusions of the study before the end of 1984, and obtain



- 21 -
IDA's prior concurrence with respect to topics to be
addressed in other studies financed under the project
(Sections 3.02(d) and (e), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(e) Equipment. Speoial copying machines for logs and seismic
profiles, a digitizer, a desk-top computer, vehicles,
technical books, magnetic tapes and storage files for
geological and geophysical data would be financed under
this component.
76.      The geothermal reconnaissance project component work in the Afar area
would include:
(a) Consulting services (36 man-months) to supervise the work
financed under the project, to review the results of past
reconnaissance work in this area and current work being
undertaken elsewhere, and to develop an overall strategy
for geothermal development;
(b) Survey work, to be accomplished by geologic mapping (mainly
from air photographs and satellite imagery), selected
resistivity surveys (aimed at tracing shallow thermal fluid
flows to their probable source areas), and chemical
analysis of fumarolic gases (to help determine probable
reservoir temperatures);
(c) Training of Ministry of Mines and Energy staff in the
geothermal unit (part of the Geological Institute within
the Ministry); and,
(d) Equipment for the above.
77.      The total project cost is estimated at approximately US$9.5 million,
net of taxes and duties, of which approximately US$8.3 million would be
foreign exchange. Cost estimates by component are shown in the Project
Summary at the beginning of this Report. The total cost per man-month of
consulting services has been estimated on average at US$16,300 including
travel, subsistence and overhead. The projected costs of seismic acquisition
and geothermal survey work is based on the cost of similar work in neighboring
countries.  Physical contingencies of 10 percent are included.  For prices,
contingencies of 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent for
1986 have been applied to the foreign costs of expenditures not yet incurred
(i.e, not PPF-financed). Contingencies of 10 percent per annum have been
applied to local costs.
Financing Plan
78.      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million
equivalent) would finance approximately 84 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of the project. The remainder of the foreign exchange costs of the
project, US$1.3 million, would be financed by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), for which IDA would be executing agency. The project
components to be funded from UNDP are shown in Table 3, below:



- 22 -
Table 3: UNDP Funded Project Components
Item                        Amount
Resident exploration consultant.......  $  330,000
Reprocessing of seismic data...........      470,000
Training:  Six two-year scholarships..       250,000
Equipment....             .............      250,000
Total... ....                             $1,300,000
The UNDP would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of these
project components. The local costs of the project, estimated at about US$1.2
million equivalent, would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
79.      The Ministry of Mines and Energy, assisted by consultants to be
provided under the project, will be in charge of project implementation. The
consultants will have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The Ministry intends to keep BEICIP as exploration
consultant; Butler, Binion, Rice, Cook and Knapp of Washington, D. C., as
legal consultants; and Coopers & Lybrand of London, United Kingdom, as
accounting. and auditing consultants. These consultants were selected with the
concurrence of IDA (para. 65) and have been performing satisfactorily to
date. The exploration and legal consultants will assist the Ministry in the
bidding process for acreage and in subsequent negotiations with interested oil
companies as part of their tasks (para. 75).
80.      Staff from the Ministry of Mines and Energy will implement the
project, supervised by the Permanent Secretary. The exploration promotion
component will be undertaken by a project coordinator within the Ministry's
Institute of Geological Surveys, to whom will report a geologist, a
geophysicist, a petroleum lawyer, and an accounting officer. A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit would be designation of staff to each of
the above positions in accordance with qualifications acceptable to IDA
(Section 6.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).   A, petroleum unit has
been formed to handle petroleum affairs.   The geothermal reconnaissance
component would be implemented by the existing geothermal unit within the
Geological Institute.
Procurement and Disbursement
81.      Consultants' services which have already been procured for this
project have been tendered in accordance with Bank Group guidelines;
additional consulting services will also be procured in accordance with the
same guidelines. Tendering for the seismic survey work (estimated cost:
US$800,000) would be done on a limited international basis to qualified
contractors having a ship in the vicinity of the Red Sea. Because the cost of
mobilizing a marine crew from locations in the United States or Europe would
be high in relation to the relatively small scope of the work proposed, bids
from firms not already operating in the area would not likely be competitive
for such purposes.



- 23 -
82.      The geothermal reconnaissance work (estimated cost:  US$1.7 million)
would be bid on the basis of limited international tendering. Small items of
equipment would be purchased directly by the Administrative Services
Department of the Ministry of Mines and Energy in accordance with regulations
issued by the Department of Finance; larger items, including vehicles, would
be acquired through the Procurement and Supplies Control Department of the
Ministry of Finance. These procedures have been reviewed and are acceptable
to IDA. Disbursements of IDA funds would be made against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or the equivalent for goods and services produced in
Ethiopia.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
83.      Separate accounts would be kept by the Ministry of Mines and Energy
for the execution of the project. A project accountant would check all
expenditures. The project accounts would be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Ministry and IDA. (The cost of the audit is included in the
project.) The Ministry would submit audit reports no later than six months
after the closing of each fiscal year to IDA starting with 1983. The Ministry
would also submit quarterly and annual reports on the implementation of the
project in a format satisfactory to IDA. After completion of the project, the
Ministry would prepare a review report on the execution of the project.
Project Benefits and Risks
84.      The potential benefits of the promotion component of the project
derive primarily from substantial investments by oil companies in petroleum
exploration which may be attracted, and which could lead to the discovery of
exploitable petroleum or gas resources. The benefits of the geothermal
reconnaissance work relate to the considerably enhanced flexibility in the
planning of electric power generation in the Ethiopian power grid which would
be possible from small, incremental geothermally-powered steam generators.
85.      The principal risks from the promotion project are that, despite
revised and additional geophysical data and a well-conceived promotional
effort, foreign oil companies may not express further interest in exploration
*       in the country.  This is particularly true in the current environment of
unsettled oil prices and correspondingly lessened oil exploration programs.
However, given the present and projected cost of Ethiopia's oil imports, the
*       level of interest expressed by oil companies in the past in Ethiopia, and the
favorable characteristics of the country's geology, this risk is considered
acceptable in relation to the large potential benefits of hydrocarbon
discoveries. With respect to the geothermal work, feasible sites may not be
established, but this risk is small in view of the number of sites being
studied and the breadth of the reconnaissance program. The training
components of the project will be of ongoing value.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
87.      Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III to this report.
88.      An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit will
be the establishment of a petroleum unit in the Ministry of Mines and Energy
staffed by personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
the Association (Section 6.01 (a), the draft Development Credit Agreement).
89.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 24, 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX I
-Page  1
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
ARE   (THOUSAND SQ. KMO)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE=
AGRICULTURAL     591.8                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNF PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        70.0    140.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       8.7        29.1      19.6                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 20093.0    25450.0  31065.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 6.4          9.7      13.6                 17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      53.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       159.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       16.4        20.8      25.0      -          27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM4. AGRICULTURAL LAND    34.6        33.0      51.7                 86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.9        44.8      45.0                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         53.5        52.6      52.3                 52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.6       2.6                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.4       2.0/c                2.7                     2.8
URBAN                              5.5         6.5       5.4                  6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.8         49.9      49.4                 47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.3         25.7      24.1                 19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.3       3.3                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0       101.0      83.0/d               88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                   90.8        87.2      78.4/e               90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          72.4        69.3      60.87i               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.7        27.7      22.4/e               18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     39.9        35.1      31.6                 26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.7         38.2      39.9                 45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          175.0       158.5    146.2                  129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       6.0/f               23.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      32.0/f               54.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.07?               18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0      14.0/               25.8
URBAN                                         67.0      56.07h               63.1
RURAL                               ..         8.0       S.07j               20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        100465.0     75744.0   74906.6/e            32097.3                 14185.2
POPULArION PER NURSING PERSON    14921.6      7876.8   5319.4/f              3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2999.0      3083.4   3391.6/e              1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                            224.2       392.7        ..                249.5                  430.8
RURAL                               ..    19269.5         ..               1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        10.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.5        ..
URBAN                              3.5         4.2
RURAL                               .          4. .5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.7          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                             58.2/h        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
ETHliOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIG8TED AVE78OAES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH Oe SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   7.0        16.0       36.0  1/               63.2                    83.3
MALE                  11.0         23.0       48.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEKALE                 3.0         10.0      24.0                   50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.4          4.0       9.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   1.0          6.0       11.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.1          2.0        6.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 20.3             4.5        ..                    7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             37.0         48.5      59.2                   47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           12.6        27.7       41.0                   26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         6.0/i    15.0 1/                34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8          1.6       1.8/f                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9          6.3       7.2                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.3       0.8                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.1          1.1        1.7                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                   1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8974.7      10957.5   12894.7
F.MALE (PERCENT)                    35.7         35.2      33.3                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               88.0         84.0      80.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          6.0       7.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.1       41.5                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  58.6         56.9       54.8                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                31.3         29.7      27.9                   29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.1                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)   .
URBAN                                 ..           ..     115.0 2/               134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0                   82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       77.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      37.0                   60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       60.0                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Recent population growth rate for 1975-80 is 2.5X; /d  FAO data differ somewhat from Ministry of Agriculture
data, and may exaggerate the apparent decline; /e 1977; /f 1976; IS 1975; /h Addis ababa only; /i 1965.
1/ Estimates differ from those in the text of the Report since the latter
reflect the findings of the latest economic mission which visited Ethiopia
in March 1983.
2/ An appraisal mission has re-estimated this figure to be about US$190 in
- 1981.
May 1982



- 27 -                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3
DgPDIlTIClS OF SOCEL MlDICATalVs
Notes: Although the data are drawn Eros sources generally jdged the fist authritative and reliable. it should als  he toted that they -y not bh  toter-
nationally comparable because of the look of steodoodied defiittioss end concepts used by different -oeutrien to collecting the dat.  The dtaa*re,    r
theiesn.  useful to droribhe orders of agnitde, ifdloate trends, and chaoretertl  certian eajor differenco-   betwer  countrirs.
The reference  groups are (I) ohe 00h 0 - ..0cry sroup of the eubjot co.unry and (2) a coutry group vtth oomekac higher areCrge Ieco=e obap the country group
of thb  subject  country (enoept fur   "Righ Inc=    Oil Efportrsr" group where 'ltiddle  l         -oume Uerth Africa and Mtddle Ea.t" is ch..t. beoane of etrasgur
oacio-oulrcral affinoties).  In the reterence group dora rh. arrragee are populerion wighted ar-Ithetlo rean fur eaoh Ludoiator and uhotn only shin
majurity uf trh ctoutria  in   group h.. data f-o that indicatur.  Si.n.  the  coage of c-outries amng            indicators depends un the availebiliry of data
aud is nor u ifore, oautlon t=st be o.erIsed iu realtios arerogen of une lsdifator te anorber.  Three a-rarges are only useful in -oP-arieg the ratno of
non  indtcatuor at   l tim  aog the country and referenoc  gruups.
AREA (thousned eq.kn.)                                                                       Populotion per dospital Red - total.  urban., ad rural - Population (total,
Total - Total .urfocr area comprisnlg loud urea and inland varern; 1979 data.                urbhn, and rural) divided hy their respect lee nabee of hepitol beds
A,ricultocal - Esti-tae of agrioultural area used terpuonaily or permonoetly                 availuble in public end priovto general and speoialired hbspitol end rr-
for crops, patnuren.  rtarkt end kitchen gardoma or to lie fallow; 1979 data.              habhlittion.centert.  HonPitals are etab'ihents permanently stoffed
by at leant Cee ph.piclan. Ettablitshenen pro-idieg peloulpally canto-
GNP PER CAPITA (US5) - GNP pot capita enrinafon at curtet zarhor prices, cal-                  dial gore are nort inluded.  tural hopitals, buwter, include health
culated by s_=  conrerstou etrbd an World -aik Atrgo  (19781 h_ sn); 1960,                   and medical ceeters oo  peranetly staffed hy a phynbcian (but by a
1970. aod l980 date.                                                                         edi.cul  ..mistant. nurse, midvife, etc.) shiob offer ie-potisnt aoro-
dartin and provide I lteitd range of edieal follit Ias.  Fo  stotir-
ENERGY COSUMfPTION PER CAPITA - Aoual connurlen of cetnmrciul energy (cool                     float purposes urban hnopitals inolade WfHO  priCipal/geseral hospitals,
and lignite, pror a, natural gas and hydr-, nclearand geothereal elec-                       acd rural hospirala, loala or  nroal hbnpitals and edicol aed saternity
trCicity) tn kilogCra   of coal equivaleut per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                  cetters.  Sprotolieed hospttalt ore iniluded only  dwer total.
data.                                                                                      Adtisstons per Hpityal led - Total n-b-er of adeissop  te or discharges
*                                                                                           f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ree honpirals dtvided by tbr nether of beds.
pOPUlATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                    h
Total Populotuto, gid-Yrar (th.ouands) - As of Jnly 1; 1960. 1970, apd 1990              dOU91SG
data.                                                                                   Average Sieu of gassehold (persons per household) - total, se_nb, and rurol-
Ueban PPulatiou (perenot of t.otl) - Eatti  uorfurbao ttotal popnlat-in;                    A hontehold couolstn of a group of lodtirdunle who share livIng qna,tert
ditferet detinitiont of ucrba  ocean nay affect corparability of data                      and their mial souls.  A bhadedr or lodger ty or my net be tecluded it
aosog countries; 1960, 1970, and 1990 dact.                                                the hcusehold for statirtical purposen.
Pupulation Projectiens                                                                     Average nusber of perons per teen- total, nrban., and rural -oaerage out
Populattun In I ear 2000 - Current populatoln projectens are bahed e  1980                ber of pernon per teen in nll urban, sad rural occupied conventional
total populatiuo by ege aud em  and their  _nrealIty and fertiitty roten.               deellicgn, respectively.  Dvellicnsexclude con-peranret etrornaren and
Projectiot parteotern for tprtality ratet coprine of three levels sumpu-                ateocupled partt.
i1g life e           tpectaccy on birth Lcreasing vith coutr.y'a per capita ioncot    Alcest to Elctriciy (p .erceut of dP elling) - ttol, urban, and  rural -
level, and female lift expeccancy ntobilioicg at 77.5 yearn.  The para-                 Ceteontio_al deellinga aith  l_ectricity  in  iving quarters as percentage
meters for fertility ra-C  else burn three levels -nsueing delipe in                     of total, urba., atd rural dwellings respoctively.
ferttlity accordigc oluco= level and pout fouily planning pertfrance.
Fach countty is theun aigned oue of theue 0ine co binations of ourtality            EGUCATION
aed fertility tr_nan for pr-jectin purCpoes.                                          Adjuted Enrolloent gart0
Araufocury Peopulaon-fo a utatiocaty popnlatio- therC  ft no gtowth niece                  PriIary ochool - trotl, gale and femle - Grusa total,  ale and female
the bIrth rato in equal tr the death rate, aod als  the ange        ructurere-             enroll_eer of all aen  at the pri=ry level or percentages of renpectie
uina constant.  ThtI is uchievd only aftee tettilIy rates decline to                       pertary tchool-age pupulatitns; normally includeu childtee sged 6-11
the replocesoet level of unit net reprofduti-o  rte., het eoch generaetio                  yearn hut adjusted for differste  lengths of primary education; fur
of wo .en replaces it.If e-ctly.  The stationary population nine won                       cuntrieo with u-iversal educaftio   etrelmteet cay e-rced lIO  percent
etnioted on the bhsis of the projected characteristics of the population                   nin_e eume pupils ate heloe or above the uffitcil scheol oge.
10 the year 2009, end the Cate of decline of fortility ratC to replaoe-                 Secuedary uchnol - total, nal and fe=le - Cooputed an abort; uecondory
et Ievel.                                                                                  educatiou tequire-at lea st font yeoar of appeoved primary instruction
Year stctiopary poyplativo  i  re-hoed - The year  hean stattonary populatin-                provideu geveral, vocationol, or reacher trainiug instr-rtlnn  for pepil
tire  1ill be reached.                                                                     anoally uf 12 to 17 yearn of age; cor--spondence ou-nes are generolly
Populati:n Donsity                                                                             encluded.
Per am. km. - hid-year pupulution per square kilget-er (100 hec-oren) of                 Vocatino.l oeellsutc (perceet of necondary) - Vocational institutions
coral area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                    include techeical, indnrttlol, or other prcgreCu which eperote indopoud-
Pot nq. he. agricultural land - Co=pyted ua above fut ugricultural land                    ectly or us deportmenta of seocodary institutions.
only; 1910, 1971 and 1979 data.                                                       Pupil-teacher ratio - pri=ry, and  .cun dory - Total tudentt enrulled tn
Populatton Ae structure (perceuc) - Children  (0-14 yearn), nerking-uge (15-                 primry end necondary leverl divided by nusbert uf teachern in the
64  years), and retirtd (65 yrars aud over) an percentages of tid-yea_ popo-               uorreonpsding lovelt.
lotion; 1960, 1970, and 1990 data.                                                       Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate uduitn (able tu read und  rito)
Population Grgwth gaco (percect) - total - Anaool gruwth eaten cf tutal mid-                 atI peceutage of total adult population aged 1 pram  and over.
yrr populotiot for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 19)0-80.
Populati-n Gruoth Rate (peCcent) - orban- Anual geowth rates of urb-n popu-             CONSUMPTION
lateon      I for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 197D-8l.                                         Panseeger fact (pee thousand populatiuo) - Yannenger core co-prise mot-r
Crude Birth bRr (pet tho.u.od) - Annual live births per thentand of eid-year                 corn seating lent than eight ptrtuno; occludes ubulacorn, hearses and
popylatiun; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                     military vehitla.
Crude Death Ract (per thoutod) - Antuul deathe per ehousaed  of mid-year                  Radio Receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
yopul, iun: 1960, 1970, and 1910 doat.                                                    broadcantt to genetal public pot thousa=d of pypulstion; etcluden no-
Gruts   trodacion taRte - A-oraoge  mbec of daugbterua.wuan till bhar in                     lic_enedrecetversinocrlen  and in yepam   he  tregistration of radio
baer nornal ropreduccir  period if she experienceu prenent age-specific fer-               sets vs in effect; data for receet yearn toy nut bh c-sparable nince
duty rates; uually tire-year avoerges ecding in 1960, 1970, and 1980.                      =ost coustrien abulished licensing.
Fa=ily Planeing - A-cctor, Alunal (chounds) - dnue-l comber of acceptort                   TV Rocearers (Per thouaad pop tatio   -Pp rec-ivers for broadoast to
of birth-control devices under auspices PI national family planning prug-ao.               gsneral public per thout-ed population-; ecuIdes utlicensed TV -eceive-s
Pamily Planning -Usert (percent of sorried wo-n) - Percectage uf married                     in countries and in years when regintratian of TV sect wo  in effect.
women of chili-hearing age (11-40 years) oin  -s  bieth-toutrtl device-  to              Newspaper Circulation (per theusand pupulatien) - Ibun the average  cir-
all married  comen in tare sge group.                                                      culatiou of  daily general inte-eet newspaper, drfinrd asaporiodical
publicatint dovuted primarily to ten-ding geReo   ew.I  f  otiee
FLD AND _NUTRITION                                                                             t be "daily" if It appears at leaut four tines  see.k
Tedeo  of Fyod Production Pr  Capita (1969-11-i00) - lndeo of per capita an.nul           Cineta Aunual Attendance per Cpita per Year - taed on the nanber of
production of all food  coan.ditlet.  Production ecladen aeed and feed and                 lirk-  nold during tie year. luoluditg adeioio..  to drire-In ottoman
is On calendnr peer basit.  Co=odities cover prisooy goods (e.g. tuga.ca.e                and  obilelunitn.
i_ocead of sugar)  hich are edible and contain nutrients (.g. coffte and
Cte  arIe  clded).  Agg-egate pruductioc of .cuh ceuntry in bated on                  LABOR FORCE
natiotal avrage producer price -eights; 1961-65, 1970, ad 1980 data.                    Total Labur Force (thounanda) - FR.nocl-aily activ- p-rsm, inclnding
Per capita supply of calorieu (percent of rCniprtneun)- Coupnted from                       erand forcet and nneoybuyed bat enclodiog h.u.e. ves, students, etc.,
energy equivalent of ccc  food nupplios cvailable in country per capita                    uovering polorion of oil ogen.  befinicioto to variouu ccnntrien are
per day.  Available supplies co=prtso d-mantic produoctiu, impnrct  le.t                  Cot ovparable; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dato.
exportc,  hnd changen Is ntock.  Net nupplier tnclsde animl feed, seedu,                  Female (rrCent) - Female labor force as p-rcentage of total lab-r force.
qutntit  used in food procesning, and lonses in discriboIioh. R.equire-                   Agriculture (peruet) - Labor force in forming, forestry, bnting end
-ettu  ere esttactrd by FAO based on phynielogicol needs for norml acti-                     fithicg an pe.renCage of tutal labor ftr; 1960., 1970 and 198O data.
vity and health cnniderieg vnoirnnoenpal cenyccatoro, body welbhtn, age                   Industry (rercent) - Labor cor  in mining, construction, mIanufacturing
aed stn diuceibution of pupulatiCo, and alluiog IO pnrcenc foo wntCe at                     und electricity, eater aed gus oc percentage nf total labor fror;
hosehold level; 1961-65, 1970 acd 1977 dote.                                               1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
for capito nupply of penteir (grons per day7 - Pro_viu concen- cf pen caypia              Parcicipatinn  tuce fpeonet) - toccl. male, and fetale - Participotion or
not tupply of food per day.  Net nupply of fund is defined an above.  Rb-                 a-tivety crtet ore conpoted an total,  le., and faoule labor force an
qoiremeent fur all countrien establinhed by UbDA provide for I  linsm                     peecentagot of totel, male and  Ivoule population of all agen repectively;
allowcen of 60 gram Of tocol protn  per day acd 11 grams of animal end                     1960, 1970, and 1980 data.  Th-se erv based on ILO's.  participation rates
pulte protvin, of which 10 goc-n uhould be anol yontein.  Thes  scand-                    r-fleccingcge-sex    crurr of the populatin., and long rim  treed. A
ards are loser thar chose of 75 grant of  ntotl protein and 21 groan of                    fee entiates are from Cetienal sources.
anigu1 proteic  at      -vrago fur the world, proposed by FAO in the Third              fonnoic Dependency . Rati  - Ratir  of popslution under 15 end 65 and oer
torld Fond Surey; 1961-65, 1970 aud 1977 darn.                                             to the total labor forue.
Poe capita pnoein supply froa ai             I Pand p tle-Protein unpply of fund de-
rived from ecbmals und puines in grotn per dop; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 date.          191101 DISTE13UTIOY
Child (agea 1-4) Death tatc (per thousund) - Auu.al deaths per thusnand in                 Percentage of Private Income (both in ceuh and kied) - Received by ricehst
ago groCp 1-4 year., to uhildren in this age group; fur svsc developing coon-              5 percent, richeot 20 rprcent, poorest 20 pecent, aod poorent 40 percent
trien data derived from life tables; 1960, 1970  cad 1980 data.                           of households.
HEALTH                                                                                     POVERTY TARGbT GROOPP
Life Expectancy at Birth (years) - aceage nn ber of ypas of lif  resaining                 Th.  following  uesttaes are vroy approoimate  - -eatree of poverty levels,
cc birth; 1960, 1970 and 1900 data.                                                        und should be interpreted with cuosiderable cuutton.
Infant tinrilicy  tac  (per thousaod) - Annna1 deaths of iefonts udee one peer            EItimted Abuolute Poverty Igcoe Level (US$ per capita) - nrban and rural -
of age per chennoed lire births; 1960, 1970 end 19E0 duta.                                Absalute poverpty Icome level Ia that itooge level belen vbich a inimal
Accent tu gafe lacer (percent of popltion) - totaL, urban, and rural - Na-                   nutritionully adeqoute diet pls e. se.tial von-feud roqoleements it not
ber of people (fetal,  urban, and rnral) with reauable cuness to. o e  a.ffrdable.
valtr nupply (includes treoted nurface wotoro or untreated but .nc.traminated            Estimated RIelat.e Poverty I-cume Level (US0  pen capito) - urban and rueal -
water tuch an that fro  protected boreholen,  sprieng, and sanitary urlis) on              lieal relative poverty Income level In onr-third of avrange per -npitl
perceutages of their reupuPtivo popylations.  In or urban area a public                    poteropl iecese of the country.  Urban level it derived Iros the rursi
fountain or standpott located not ante than 200  otert ftru= Pa ne may he                  level with adjantount fur higher cost of living in orban areas.
considered 00 betig sithin reasuPable occest of Chat house.  In rural arean             tati=ted Poptlation  Eelow Abtolute Poverty Income Lev   fperret) - urban
rr.a.nable access  -ld imply thet the housewife oc pe=bere of the household               and mIur   - Percent of populattio  (ueobn and rurall who are  abselute
do cot have to spend a dimproporCtio.nt  poet ef the day  in fetching the                   u
faily's tter needs.
Acomes to ecre-o Dineomal (perteo- of populatioul - total, neban, end rural -
Nuhber ef people (total. nrb-n, and ero1) termed by ercrta dispesal an
percentages of their e-peoti-e populatitns.  Excreta dinposal may incide
the collectian and diapumal. wigh or  ic.tot trentnt, of bhn e-nrets
ant waste-catet by water-borpe tysrep or the usa  of pit petii-  end tint-
lar lenrallatioun.
Populatiun per Phyaiitat - Yopulation divided by narbeC of pracetinig physi-                                                   toeseit and Secial Date livinite
t pso qoalitied ten= a nedical srhool or a1lverity level.                                                               &one-il  A-lyaie and Prejeogiosa Dep-rsoet
Perelattee per Iarsins Person  - Population dinided by comber of practaisng             -                                                  Nay 1982
maIn and female gredaat nnraes, eatisnt sevens, prtott-ol ene-sn aed
nursingamailiaries.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
Economic Indicators
Groas National Product in FY 1982 11                                  Annual Rate of Growth (2, constant prices)
US$Mln.       2                       FY1976-81        FY1981       FY1982
GNP at Market Prices               4465.4       100.0                       2.9              3.2          2.5
Gross Domestic Investment           476.2        10.7
Gross Domestic Savings              114.9         2.6
Resource Balance                   -361.3         8.1
Export of Goods and NFS             520.0        11.6
Iport of Goods and NFS             881.3        19.7
Output in FY1982 1/                             Government Finance         Central Government
Value Added                                        (Br.Mln)                 S of GDP
US$Mln.       X                                   tY1981          FY1982         FY1978-80
Agriculture            2011.5        49.7       Current Receipts           1821.6           19.7             22.1
Industry                628.7        15.5       Current Expenditures       1692.4           18.3             21.0
Services               1406.8        34.8       Current Surplus             129.2            1.4              1.1
4047.0       100.0       Capital Expenditures        584.8            6.3              5.6
Money, Credit and Prices
(Fiscal Years)                                                   1978         1979         1980       1981       1982
(million Br. outstanding end oTfperiod)
Money and quasi-money                                           1690.8        1859.3      2108.7    2087.8       2301.3
Bank Credit to Central Government                                766.3        862.3        968.1    1107.9      1180.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                                        911.9        1222.7      1644.2    1721.8      1944.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money as x of GDP                                                 23.4          23.3         24.9      23.8        24.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                               18.6          12.9        12.5        1.9         6.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                      72.9          12.5        12.3       14.4         6.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                     42.0          34.1        34.5        4.7        12.9
Mote: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Fiscal Year: July 8 to 7.



-29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
Balance of Payments
(Hiscal Years)                      1979         1980        1981         1982 1I
(Million US)                                      (Fiscal Year Average)
US$Mln.   X
Exports of Goods, NPS               455.4        584.2        554.8        520.0              Coffee             263.0    62.7
Imports of Goods, SFS               661.3        799.1       817.4        881.3               Pulses              12.9      3.1
Resource Gap (deficit              7 -)  -205.9  -214.9      -262.6      -361.3               Oilseeds             9.9      2.4
Hides & Skins       53.0    12.6
Investment Income (net)              -3.2         -6.5         -7.1        -2.2               Oilseed cake         3.2      0.8
*     Private Transfers (net)              23.3         19.9         24.7         45.2              Other               77.2    18.4
Balance on Current Account         -184.8       -201.5       -245.0      -318.7                  Total           419.2   100.0
Official Transfers (net)             59.7         59.9         59.8        67.5               External Debt, Dec. 31,1982
Private MLT Capital (net)             0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0                                       US$Mln.
Public MLT Borrowing (net)           70.6        103.6        110.4       245.4               Public Debt Incl.
Disbursements                    (88.4)      (122.8)     (132.5)      (278.0)                 Guaranteed
Amortization                     (17.8)       (19.2)      (22.1)       (32.6)             Total outstanding &
Short-term Capital                  -19.0        -14.0        -6.0         18.9                  Disbursed               949.0
Change in reserves (- -                                                                      Debt Service Ratio for FY1982
increase)                         46.0        40.4         60.0        -60.5                                            X
Minor Items                          27.5         11.6         20.8        47.0               Public Debt. incl.
Net Foreign Assets (end year)       218.2        177.8        118.6       178.6                  guaranteed                 9.7
Petroleum Imports                 68.2       118.3        138.7        159.1
Petroleum Product Imports         41.6         37.0        27.0         14.0
IBRD/IDA Lending (Mar. 31, 1983
(USS Mln.)
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding &
Disbursed        46.7   321.9
Undisbursed       -     121.2
Outstanding Incl.
Undisbursed      46.7   443.1
Rate of Exchange
Since 1974
US$1.00 - Br.2.07
-r.l.0O - US$0.48
- not applicable
- not applicable
1, Provisional
May 1983



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
Status of Bak Group Operations in Ethiopia
A. Statement of Bark loans and IDk Credits
(as of March 31, 1983)
Amoxit
(US$ Million)
Loan or Credit                                             (less cancelations)
Number      Year   Borrowr           Purpose            Bark          M)       Undisbursed
Twelve loaws and seventeen credits fully disbursed         108.6        195.6         -
Cr. 485-ET     1974   Ethiopia   Drouht Areas Pehab.        -            10.0        0.9 a/
Cr. 486-ET    1974   Ethiopia   Wolaita Agriculture II      -            12.0        0.4 a/
Cr. 554-ET    1975   Ethiopia   Telecao. V (2nd trandie)   -             16.0        0.4
Cr. 603-ET    1976   Ethiopia   Rargelands Develcpnent      -            27.0        10.9
Cr. 707-ET    1977   Ethiopia b/ Revised Amibara            -            25.0        7.7
Cr. 708-ET    1977   Ethiopia   Road Sector                 -            32.0        11.7
Cr. 789-ET    1978   Ethiopia   Grain Storage & Marlkting  -             24.0        9.3
Cr. 1088-ET    1981   Ethiopia   Agri. MLnim.m Pkg. II      -            40.0 c/    25.1
Cr. 1141-ET    1981   Ethiopia   Education V                -            35.0 c/    25.7
Cr. 1275-ET    1982   Ethiopia   Agri. & Inclust. Dev. Bark  -           30.0 c     29.1
Total                                       108.6        446.6      121.2
of uich has been reaid                     61.9           3.5        -
Total now coitstandirg                      46.7         443.1
Annunt sold                   6.0            -             -          -
of which has been repaid     6.0            -             -
Total Now Held by Bark & IDk
(prior to exdiarge adjustments)            46.7         443.1        -
Total Undisbursed                            -             -        121.2
a/ These credits are being closed cut.
b/ TS$1.7 million disbursed under fonrer Cr. 418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has been repaid aot
of the proceeds of the new Credit.
c/ Credits 1088-ET, 1141-Er and 1275-Er are dencminatei in SDs (SDR 32.0 million, 28.2
million, and 27.0 million, respectively).



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ Million
'  Fiscal                                           Type of               Amount
Year       Obligor                               Business     Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I         Textiles      1.5       1.0         2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper           -       1.9         1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar         5.5       3.5         9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II        Textiles      0.4       0.2         0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III       Textiles      1.5       0.2          1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9       6.8         15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                    8.9      5.9         14.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   -       0.9          0.9
Total Undisbursed



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Cr. No. 554:     Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche):
US$16.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of
Effectiveness:  August 26, 1975; Closing Date:  June
30, 1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule because of various difficulties, including
shortages of construction materials and certain
categories .of staff, that were encountered during the
early stages of the project. In recent years,
however, the Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
(TSE) has made concerted efforts to speed civil
works and equipment installation. The buildings for
exchange and transmission equipment have been
completed. The interurban switching equipment, the
telex exchange, and most of the transmission systems
have been installed. In addition, a comprehensive
training program has been prepared for TSE's staff.
TSE's financial situation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 603:     Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Credit of January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
May 18, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is about three years behind
schedule, primarily because of security constraints,
but has improved in recent years in secure parts of
the three sub-project areas. The project
organization is well-developed and most of the
infrastructure is now in place. Range rehabilitation
and management aspects of the project are being
implemented, and studies on livestock development and
highland rehabilitation have started.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 707:      Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million
Credit of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 7, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The construction of headworks and irrigation systems
is proceeding satisfactorily, and over 90 percent of
the work has been completed. On-farm works are
progressing more slowly, but are expected to be
completed by mid-1984. Building and housing
construction are nearly completed. About 1800
hectares were planted with cotton in the 1981/82
cropping season, and good yields were obtained.
Significant delays, however, have been experienced in
the establishment of alternative grazing areas for
the Afar people.
Cr. No. 708:     Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway):  US$32.0
million Credit of July 5, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: October 7, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementing the five-year Road Sector
Program has been slower than expected at appraisal,
but generally satisfactory. Good progress has been
made on primary and secondary road construction.
Progress on rural road construction has been
satisfactory and improved significantly during the
past year after the new Rural Roads Organization had
become more, firmly established. The training and
technical assistance components of the project are
proceeding well. However, the 100 km Mota-Bahar Dar
feeder road subproject, which is being financed by a
US$10.5 million EEC Special Action Credit (No. 34-ET)
signed on November 30, 1979, is behind schedule due
to equipment problems and shortages of construction
materials.
Cr. No.789:       Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million
Credit of June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The volume of grain storage capacity to be
constructed under the project has been reduced from
about 350,000 tons to about 200,000 tons, comprising
31 stores, to accord with available funding. The
quality of construction of stores, however, has not
been satisfactory, but corrective measures are being
taken to improve quality and to strengthen the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation's (AMC) storage
and technical management. The construction of stores



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
is nearing completion and the construction of AMC's
new headquarters building has begun. AMC's overall
penetration of the cereals trade has grown as fast as
estimated at appraisal, but various marketing and
distribution problems have been encountered and are
being reviewed. In particular, the Government and
the Association are carrying out jointly a study of
farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency.
Cr. No. 1088:    Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project:  SDR
32.0 million (US$40 million equivalent) Credit of
February 2, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: September
1, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Good progress is being made in establishing a
widespread network of Ministry of Agriculture offices
and staff throughout most of the arable highland
areas but a procurement problem relating to the
construction of office buildings led to a
concellation of about US$780,000 equivalent of the
IDA credit.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment
is well underway. Delays, however, have been
encountered in producing improved seeds and procuring
other inputs for the technical packages for farmers.
Some organizational difficulties have also become
apparent, and various proposals to correct them are
being examined. The Government and the Association
are carrying out jointly an in-depth review of the
project and the minimum package program.
Cr. No. 1141:    Fifth Education Project: SDR28.2 million (US$35
million equivalent) Credit of June 29, 1981;Date of
Effectiveness: September 24, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985.
Start-up activities have commenced as scheduled. The
construction of primary and secondary schools are in
line with appraisal estimates. The educational
aspects of the project which consist of an evaluation
study of a new curriculum to be introduced, a
manpower survey and in-service training of school
inspectors, are well underway. A Project Coordinator
and local staff of the Project Management Office
(PMO) are in post. Consultants in accountancy have
been recruited. The PMO is functioning effectively
and prospects for successful project implementation
are good.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
-*      Cr. No. 1275:    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
Project: SDR 27.0 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Credit of August 27, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
Project implementation is just getting underway.
AIDB has advertised the availability of loans for
small-scale manufacturers and contractors, and the
Government is making concerted efforts to speed the
preparation of industrial rehabilitation and
expansion subprojects for possible AIDB assistance.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:............ 15 months
(b) Preparation by: ................. Ministry of Mines and Energy and
Consultants
(c) Initial discussion with IDA: ...... September 1981
(d) First IDA mission: ................ March 1982
(e) Appraisal mission departure: .... .. November 1982
(f) Post-appraisal mission: ........... January 1983
(g) Negotiations: ................... May 1983
(h) Planned date of effectiveness:.... October 1983
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would consult with IDA on the conclusions of the gas
utilization study before the end of 1984 (para. 75).
(b) As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will establish a
petroleum unit and staff it with personnel whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Association (para. 88).



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
Petroleum Geology of Ethiopia
A. Introduction
1.       Ethiopia's land area is 1,200,000 km2, of which sedimentary areas
cover roughly 30 percent, or 350,000 km2. The Red Sea covers approximately
78,000 km2, of which 62 percent or 48,000 km2 comprise shelf (less than 200 m
in depth) and the balance, 30,000 km2, comprise deep waters.
2;~      The northern part of the country is covered by basement rocks,
essentially metamorphics, and volcanics of various ages. In the southern
part, sedimentary rocks from Late Paleozoic to Quaternary age are exposed.
The Ethiopian Rift, an elongated trench trending southwest-northeast and
becoming very large near the Red Sea, separates north from south. This
geological feature is lined with inactive volcanos.
3.       The search for oil in Ethiopia has been concentrated in sedimentary
basins in two areas: the Red Sea coastal basin extending from the Sudanese
border south to Dijibouti and the Ogaden basin in the southeastern part of the
country, bordering with Somalia. Ethiopia shares the Red Sea coastal basin
with Saudi Arabia and Northern Yemen; the Ogaden Basin is shared primarily
with Somalia (and to a much lesser extent with Kenya).
4.       Prospective sedimentary reactions occur in both of these basins.
Both basins have been drilled, and oil shows and significant qualities of gas
encountered.  Two smaller areas in southwest central Ethiopia (the Gambela
Promontory) and the Dinder area to the northwest also appear prospective but
little is known of these areas other than that they are extensions of highly
prospective areas in the Sudan.
B. Previous Exploration Work
5.       Red Sea Coastal Basin.  Active exploration was conducted during
1963-1976 by Agip, Mobil, Gulf, Baruch-Foster, General American Oil, and
Shell. This work included field geology, airomagnetic and marine seismic
surveys; eight deep wells were also drilled. In addition to some minor oil
and gas shows in these wells, one well experienced a gas blowout.l/ The Red
Sea basin is considerably underdrilled, averaging one well per 44,000 km2.
6.       The Ogaden Basin.  Five companies (Sinclair, Elwerath, Tenneco,
Whitestone, Louisiana Land and Voyager) were active between 1945 and 1975 in
1/ Mobil well C-1, located in the Red Sea 15 km offshore about 140 km north
of Massawa, produced uncontrolled gas with some condensate from the top
of a carbonate bed at 9,865 ft. The well bridged itself after a few
months.



ANNEX IV
- 38 -                      Page 2
the Ogaden Basin, but only the first three engaged in extensive exploration
work, consisting of field geology, ground and air magnetometry surveys, and
the collection of approximately 10,000 km of gravity seismic data. Twelve
stratigraphic holes and twelve deep wildcat wells were drilled. Most of the
wells had oil and gas shows. One well, Tenneco's Calub-1 (12,139 ft total
depth) discovered lean gas with proven reserves estimated to exceed 1 trillion
standard cubic feet (TSCF); another of Tenneco's wells, El Kuran-1 (10,462 ft
total depth) recovered small quantities of 30 degrees API gravity oil. Like
the Red Sea area, the Ogaden region is underdrilled, averaging one well per
15,000 km2.
C. Stratigraphy
7.       The stratigraphic sequences of both the Red Sea and Ogaden basins are
known and reflect the difference between the initial setting of the respective
sedimentary areas and their subsequent history.
8.       The stratigraphic sequence of the Red Sea coastal basin consists of:
(a) At base, the Adaila series of Triassic-Jurassic age,
comprising sandstones (about 300 m) considered to be the
time equivalent of the Ogaden Adigrat; these are overlain
by from 600 m to 1,000 m of fossiliferous limestones with
shale intercalations in mid-section.
(b) The upper part of this series--sand and shales--is often
correlated with the Agula shale of the Mekele basin.
(c) Next is the Amba Aradam formation (top Jurassic-early
Cretaceous in age) of fluviatile deposits, often with good
porosity.
(d) This is followed by some tectonic activity accompanied by
widespread igneous activity which resulted in the
deposition of basalts or traps, often intermixed with
continental-type sediments (conglomerates, sands and
shales).  This is designated the Dogali formation and dated
as Oligocene to early Miocene age. Total thickness is
estimated at between 1,000 m and 1,500 m. This formation
was penetrated by two wells, Amber-1 and Thio-1.
(e) The marine Habab formation was deposited in a narrow gulf
area. The sea encroached from the north, originating in
the Mediterranean. The Gulf of Suez "Globigerina Group" is
the time and lithostratigraphic equivalent of the Middle
Miocene Habab, although its fossil content is poorer than
in the Suez.
(f) A change in climatic and tectonic conditions next led to
widespread deposition (from the Red Sea and Mediterranean
Sea) of evaporites locally called the Amber formation.
Complicated lateral depositional conditions (seaward and
shoreward) cannot be more accurately interpreted without
more detailed seismic studies and/or drilling. The amount



- 39 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 3
of volcanic activity and the interaction of this activity
with salt deposition is unclear. The thickness of the
Amber varies from a few hundred meters to perhaps
1,500 m. These evaporites gave rise to diapiric
structures, some of which have been investigated.
(g) The evaporites grade upwards into the marine Desset
formation of Pliocene age, indicating a renewed connection
to open seas, in this case to the Indian Ocean. This
formation, about 300 m to 750 m in thickness, consists
largely of alternating sands, shales and limestones.
(h) Finally, the Desset grades into the uppermost formation--
the Dunishub limestone, the thickness of which varies from
approximately 400 m to 1,100 m.
9.       In the Ogaden region, the oldest sediments recognized so far were
deposited in an elongated trench of crystalline basement which has been warped
and broken into blocks separated by a rift zone. Thick continental deposits
of Karroo type of probable Late Carboniferous to Triassic age are reported
from deep drilling and from general regional geologic studies.
10.      The stratigraphic sequence can be summarized as follows:
(a) Upon a Precambrian crystalline basement rests the Calub
formation made up of basal sands with shales and anhydrite
intercalations in its upper part, the thickness of which
varies from zero to approximately 100 m.
(b) Next lies the Bokh formation consisting of plant-bearing
dark shales about 60 m to 200 m in thickness.
(c) Then follows the Gumburo formation sands of thickness
varying from less than 200 m to over 750 m; there are rare
shale and anhydrite interbeds, particularly near the top.
These three formations--the Calub, Bokh and Gumburo--form
the Karroo sequence known to occur in Ethiopia.
(d) Towards the end of the period when the Karoo sequence was
formed, a major rifting phase occurred and the sea covered
the region depositing, over a rather evenly surfaced area,
the Adigrat formation of Late Triassic-Early Liassic age.
This formation consists of sandstones with minor
intercalations of shales and anhydrite; its thickness
varies from zero to 60 m.
(e) The shelf-type Hamanlei limestone (700 m to 1,700 m in
thickness) was deposited during Early and Middle Jurassic
times and consists of low-energy limestones at the base.
This was followed by another carbonate sequence (anhydrite,
limestone, dolomite) and, finally, more marine limestones,
often of high-energy type.



ANNEX IV
Page 4
(f) This formation is followed by the Uarandab formation of
dark gray shales with inbeds of sands and limestones, from
40 m to 100 m in thickness.
(g) Then follows the Gabredare-Goja limestones, from 200 m to
300 m thickness, and of Late Jurassic age.
(h) Minor structural activity lead to the deposition of the
Gorrahei formation of alternating dolomite, anhydrite and
shale; estimated thickness of this layer is 200 m to 300 m
and its age is Early Cretaceous.
(i) The Upper Cretaceous consists of the Gorrahei, Faf, Fefer
and Belet Uen series which congist of 300 m to 500 m of
limestones with thick intercalations of anhydrite and minor
shales and sands.
(j) Finally the Tertiary is represented Jesoma sandstone about
100 m thick, and Auradu limestone of Early Eocene age.
11.      Notwithstanding dissimilar depositional and tectonic histories, the
Red Sea and Ogaden basins have estimates of potential hydrocarbons of similar
magnitude.
D. Petroleum Potential of the Red Sea Basin
Source Rocks
12.      The Agula shales of Early Jurassic age may be the earliest potential
source rocks of the Red Sea area. However, it is quite possible that
extensive volcanic activity and a rather high geothermal gradient have
resulted in the elimination of any hydrocarbon deposits. The best source rock
appears to be the Habab formation, the equivalent of the Globigerina group of
the Gulf of Suez. However, fragmentary geochemical analyses suggest that this
formation may also have been submitted, at least in places, to excessive
temperatures, diminishing their potentiality. The blow-out of Mobil's C-1
well which occurred at the base or probably near the base of the Amber
evaporitic sequence indicates, however, that hydrocarbons do exist in
commercial quantities in this area; condensates may also exist. The next
higher-up formation to be considered as a potential source is the Desset
formation, particularly its lower part. Further geochemical analyses might
resolve this possibility. In summary, the three potential source formations
existing in the Red Sea basin are, from top to bottom: the Desset, Habab and
the Agula.
Reservoir Rocks
13.      Five formations of the Red Sea stratigraphic column can be considered
as potential reservoir rocks, these being, from top to bottom: (a) the Amba
Ardam; (b) porous zones of the Dogali volcanics; (c) possible reefoid build-
ups in the Habab; (d) possible carbonate beds within the Amber evaporite; and
(e) sand and/or carbonate zones of the Desset formation.



- 41 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 5
Oil and Gas Shows
14.      Surface seeps were reported last century in the islands of the Dahlak
Archipelago and near Enberemi, south of Massawa.
15.      Subsurface oil and gas shows were reported in the eight deep wells
drilled offshore. Additional shows were recorded in stratigraphic and shallow
wells drilled onshore or on the islands prior to 1940.
16.      The most significant confirmation was the Mobil blow-out which
produced gas at an estimated rate of 10 to 15 million cubic feet per day
(MMCFD) before bridging itself after almost two months of uncontrolled
production. An undisclosed amount of condensate was also produced. A field
gas analysis suggested a composition of 95 percent methane and 5 percent
heavier components.
Structural and Other Prospects
17.      Structural traps in the post evaporite section are known to exist;
they are essentially of a diapiric nature. Since the evaporite is opaque to
seismic signals, it has been possible to identify buried structures only in
one or two cases so far. Possibilities of promising stratigraphic traps
remain; with very few wells drilled and seismic data available generally of no
better than medium quality, stratigraphic changes have not been mappable.
Zones of interest have been proposed in marginal deeps where alternating
source rocks and reservoir rocks occur. In these zones, roll-over structures
and cushion salt-type structures could be expected to be revealed by more
seismic work in the post-evaporite section. Reprocessing of existing seismic
lines in conjunction with the proposed project may yield further information
on this problem.
Concluding Remarks
18.      The Red Sea basin is known to contain three potential source rock
formations and five potential reservoir formations, each with an adjacent
protective rock. Salt-induced structures are known to exist in the post-
evaporite sequence. More seismic work is needed to improve this
information. Pre-evaporite structures have been surmised on the basis of
meager data; higher resolution seismic data is necessary to support these
conclusions.
E. Petroleum Potential of the Ogaden Basin
Source Rocks
19.      The oldest hydrocarbon source rock recognized so far in the Ogaden is
the Bokh shale of Middle Karroo times. The Bokh shale (apparently equivalent
to the Ecca shale of southern Africa) may have generated largely dry gas given
its relatively high content of plant remains; however, oil could also have
been sourced under certain favorable circumstances.
20.      The Hamanlei formation, essentially a diversified shelf-type
carbonate (oolitic and pelletic in places), could have generated liquid or
gaseous hydrocarbons in favorable locales (comparable to West Texas). The



ANNEX IN
- 42 -                       ANXI
Page 6
overlying Uarandab shale and the shale section of the Goja formation have the
potential of sourcing both oil and gas. Finally, the marls of the Fefer
Gypsum and the organogenic limestones of the Belet Uen formation may possibly
have produced oil and gas trapped in overlying sand beds that are under shale
cover.
21.      In summary, the Ogaden contains six potential source rocks of which
the most promising seem to be the Uarandab and the Hamanlei; the total
thickness of the Ogaden sections of potential interest averages approximately
2,600 m.
Reservoir Rocks
22.      Nine formations have the capability of hosting hydrocarbons in
commercial quantities, provided adequate porosity and favorable permeabilities
can be discovered. These formations are, from top to bottom: the Jesoma,
Belet Uen, Faf, Gorrabei, Gabredarre, Hamanlei, Adigrat, the Gumburo and the
basal Calub. Of this list, two formations are known to be gas-bearing in
commercial quantities: the Calub at the base, and the Adigrat higher up.
Oil and Gas Shows
23.      Surface shows have been reported from the northeast Ogaden, possibly
from Lower Jurassic rocks.
24.      Subsurface shows of oil and gas have been documented from eight of
twelve wells drilled to date. All shows came from clastic and carbonate
formations. Gas shows predominate in the Paleozoic Calub and Gumburo and the
Triassic Adigrat. Oil and gas shows occur at all levels of the Jurassic
carbonate sections: Hamanlei, Gabredarre and Uarandab. No shows have been
recorded from the short Tertiary sections.
25.      Both the Calub and the Adigrat sands in the Tenneco Calub-1 well
yielded production of rather lean gas with a minor amount of 51 degrees API
gravity condensate. There is no available gas analysis. Proven reserves in
the Calub structure are reported to be higher than I TSCF. The Calub well
flows 34.5 MMCFD with a 1" choke.
26.      Other interesting oil shows were the minor amount of 39 degrees API
oil recovered from El Kuran-1, and 31 degrees API oil from oolitic layers of
the Hamanlei in the Magan-1 well.
27.      In summary, gas can be expected in the Calub-Adigrat reservoirs,
particularly in block-faulted areas where the sequence has been preserved.
Oil can be expected in structural and stratigraphic traps in post-Karroo
potential reservoirs over most of the basin.
Structural and Other Prospects
28.      As a result of limited seismic coverage of the Ogaden and the rather
poor quality of seismic data dating from 1970 and earlier, only a few
structures have been mapped and tested. Numerous structures, particularly in
depth, could be expected to be discovered as a result of renewed exploration
activity. The size of the Calub field indicates that 2 TSCF to 3 TSCF of gas



ANNEX IV
- 43 -                     Page 7
may be trapped if the reservoir characteristics are the same over all of the
structure.L/ The recent testing of neighboring structures to the northeast of
Calub has been disappointing, revealing only minor shows of gas in the post-
Adigrat section.
Stratigraphic Traps
29.      Stratigraphic information currently available in the Ogaden is of
only a general nature; very few wells have been drilled and high resolution
seismic has not yet been used. There is an expectation of reef build-ups in
the shelf carbonates, particularly in the Hamanlei and the Gabredarre
formations. But more drilling and substantially more seismic coverage using
the latest geophysical techniques are needed to reveal depositional patterns
in such a vast area.
Concluding Remarks
30.      The Ogaden region has structural and possibly stratigraphic traps in
which both gas and oil can be expected.
F. Conclusions
31.      Both the Red Sea and the Ogaden basins contain untested structural
and stratigraphic prospects which are worth exploring. In each basin, gas
with minor condensate has been discovered, oil shows have been reported from
several wells or from surface seepages, and various combinations of source
rocks and reservoir rocks have been demonstrated to occur. A review of
international oil companies' past exploration efforts begun in connection with
the proposed project has resulted in a general upgrading of the apparent
prospects for hydrocarbon deposits. There are opportunities for multi-
objective drilling objectives.
32.      Considerably more additional seismic work of high quality is needed
to locate drilling locations for further probing the potential of these
basins.  Such extensive seismic programs are characteristically underwritten
by oil companies in their search for petroleum sources. The general
impression is that accelerated prospecting in Ethiopia would accelerate
correspondingly the interest of international oil companies in operations in
the country.
1/ Such a quantity would, according to Tenneco, be insufficient to warrant
the construction of a gas-line to Assab (across two mountain chains) for
export or for petrochemical and/or methanol purposes.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Schedule of Implementation
Employment of consultants (exploration, legal, accounting)...October 1982
Employment of a resident explorationist .......           .......... June 1983
Start of seismic reprocessing .............             .......... June 1983
Completion of draft model agreement and laws................. June 1983
Completion of seismic reprocessing. ...... ..... .....  ..... . July 1983
Start of Red Sea seismic survey....... .......................August 1983
Completion of seismic survey............................ ..October 1983
Enactment of revised petroleum and tax legislation ...........October 1983
Completion of initial promotion report ....................... December 1983
First round of acreage bidding.............                          March 1984
Signature of first agreements with oil companies  ......... June 1984
Second round of acreage bidding ........... .................. August 1984
Signature of second round agreements with oil companies ...... December 1984
Final exploration repot ........... ................ .................. June 1986
Completion date....                 ...............    ..... ........ . December 1986



j3 _1  ARA R                                                                                                    ><<eX/t\E THIOP  I AIB RD 1l7,215
J SUDAN  < ;            \; G \   l\t(|k)i ;'\<>                PETROLEUM    EXPLORATION
< 2 El HIorlA 7t1: l :0 I : \: \ $ W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,                            l Is- Iwah., A,phcl R-ud,
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G    R. .-d,
9~~~ ~~~ b       (       X                   XB C          q      r9 
RWAN ~ ~ ~ _    >              \ '                                   rNf'OHb/ -2     40       /WLMTR
<>~~~~~~*-*-*~~~~~~-                                                        F  ..r.NF vh.wn         IU :
,^_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-     7 tX.4-
UGANDA   .   36 X >          Y     ~ ~~~~~A 4a      ,/         y            4lAb>>'4i;6



