Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3533 BOS
RS Project Agreement
(Second Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3533 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 2001 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska (Republika Srpska).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,800,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Republika Srpska agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary financing and project implementation agreement to be 
entered into among the Borrower, Republika Srpska and RS DEF (the Subsidiary Financing 
and Project Implementation Agreement), the Borrower will make available to Republika 
Srpska a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement and Republika Srpska will make available said portion of the proceeds 
of the Credit to RS DEF on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Financing 
and Project Implementation Agreement; and
WHEREAS Republika Srpska in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall cause RS DEF to carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking, 
environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika 
Srpska shall cause RS DEF to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Republika Srpska shall exercise its rights under the Republika 
Srpska Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of Republika Srpska, the Association and the RS DEF and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Republika Srpska Subsidiary 
Financing and Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) Republika Srpska shall and shall cause RS DEF, at the request 
of the Association, to exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress 
of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall and shall cause RS DEF to promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by Republika Srpska of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement. 
Section 2.05. (a) Republika Srpska shall cause RS DEF to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RS DEF shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association, Republika Srpska and RS DEF a 
plan for the future operation of Part B of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Republika Srpska and RS DEF on said plan; and 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Republika Srpska shall cause RS DEF to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall cause RS DEF to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Republika Srpska shall cause RS DEF to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable RS DEF, not later 
than February 15, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, RS DEF shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later that forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of: 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective, or the date 
when this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Page  4
Republika Srpska thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Republika 
Srpska of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. 
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Republika 
Srpska or by Republika Srpska on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other 
person or persons as Republika Srpska shall designate in writing, and Republika Srpska 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ Mirko Sarovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
RS DEF shall maintain the Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation 
Agreement and the Operational Guidelines in form and content satisfactory to the 
Association and Republika Srpska, shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement and the Operational 
Guidelines and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Financing and 
Project Implementation Agreement or the Operational Guidelines without obtaining the 
prior approval of the Association.
2.
RS DEF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on February 28 and August 31 of each year, commencing on 
February 28, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the twelve-month period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 and September 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, RS DEF shall:
(a)
relend to the MCOs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Category (B) (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between RS DEF and each such MCO, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, and which shall include, without limitation, 
those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of Part B.1 of the Project and the carrying 
out by the MCOs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the MCOs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the MCOs therein set forth, and not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; 
(d)
in respect of payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of 
principal, made to it by MCOs, under the Microcredits:
Page  6
(i)
open and thereafter maintain a separate account on its books in 
accordance with its financial procedures and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii)
upon receipt of each such payment or repayment, credit the same to 
the said separate account;
(iii)
utilize all amounts so credited to the said separate account, to 
the extent they are not yet required to meet RS DEF’s repayment 
obligations to Republika Srpska under the Subsidiary Financing and 
Project Implementation Agreement, exclusively to finance its 
operating costs acceptable to the Association and other 
microcredit lending activities in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of this Schedule 1 and the Operational Guidelines; and
(iv)
prepare and furnish to the Association at regular intervals all 
such information, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, on the status of said separate account and on the 
utilization of the amounts credited thereto; and
(e)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and Republika Srpska and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a MCO 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be denominated in Euro and be the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Microcredits made out of 
the proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall: (i) be charged monthly, on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to the 
cost of IDA funds plus an interest spread, not to exceed five percent (5%) per annum, 
to cover the reasonable costs of administering Microcredits; such interest rate shall 
be reviewed by the parties semi-annually; (ii) have a maturity of not more than 
fifteen (15) years; (ii) be repaid, in respect of interest, monthly; and (iii) be 
repaid, in respect of principal, semi-annually commencing five years after the date of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  
3.
The right of a MCO to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan 
shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such MCO to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with 
all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.
Conditions
1.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a MCO, which RS DEF shall 
have determined, and the Association shall have agreed, that such MCO:
(a)
is duly established and licensed to operate in Republika Srpska;
(b)
has in place a managerial capacity under independent oversight acceptable 
to the Association;
(c)
has a sound and balanced credit risk management program acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  7
(d)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Association, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures; 
(e)
is in compliance with the Microcredit Organization Law and other 
applicable laws and regulations of Republika Srpska; and
(f)
conforms to other eligibility criteria that shall have been adopted for 
the purposes of the Project acceptable to the Association. 
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective MCO shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out activities under Part B.1 of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (c) 
hereof;
(b)
(i)
make Microcredits to Sub-borrowers on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Operational Guidelines including, without limitation, 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Attachment to this 
Annex;
(ii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Microcredit in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Borrower, Republika Srpska and the Association, comply with its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
achieve the purposes of Part B.1 of the Project;
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Microcredits, or any provision thereof, without 
prior approval of Republika Srpska; and
(iv)
appraise Qualifying Project Activities and supervise, monitor and 
report on the carrying out by the Sub-borrowers of Qualifying 
Project Activities, in accordance with the Operational Guidelines;
(c)
(i)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the 
Association or RS DEF, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Association, Republika Srpska or the RS DEF, with regard to the 
progress of its activities under Part B.1 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of Part 
B.1 of the Project;
(ii)
prepare and submit to RS DEF quarterly reports on Microcredit 
disbursements and repayments; and
(iii)
promptly inform the Association and RS DEF of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such information concerning said 
records and accounts as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of the Microcredits
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) 
(i) of Part B of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
1.
The principal amount of each Microcredit made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (B) (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall:
Page  8
(a)
be denominated in KM, and be the equivalent in KM (determined as of the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out 
on account of the cost of goods and services financed out of such proceeds for 
Microcredits under Part B.3 of the Project; and 
(b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, not exceed the equivalent of 
KM 30,000, provided, however, that the amount of the initial Microcredit by an MCO to 
any Sub-borrower shall not exceed KM 5,000.
2.
Each Microcredit shall:
(a)
bear interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, at a rate determined by the MCO, sufficient to cover the full costs 
of lending, including administration costs, costs of capital, expected loan losses, 
and inflation, and take into account positive real interest rates prevailing in the 
Borrower’s financial markets;  
(b)
be repaid, in respect of interest on the outstanding principal balance of 
the Microcredit, monthly, as determined by the MCO in accordance with its investment 
and lending policies; and
(c)
be repaid, in respect of the principal balance of the Microcredit 
disbursed and outstanding, within a period of three (3) years or less.
3.
Microcredits shall be made to Sub-borrowers each of which shall have 
established, to the satisfaction of the MCO making the Microcredit, on the basis of 
the MCO’s Operational Guidelines in conformity with the eligibility criteria for 
Sub-borrowers acceptable to the Association.
4.
Microcredits shall be made for Qualifying Project Activities which are each 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with the MCO’s 
Operational Guidelines, conformity to eligibility criteria for Qualifying Project 
Activities acceptable to the Association.
5.
Microcredits shall be made on terms whereby the MCO making the Microcredit shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of RS DEF, Republika Srpska and the Association, including the 
right to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out the Qualifying Project Activity in 
conformity with appropriate practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the 
purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the works, goods and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured using purchasing 
practices, which usually involves comparing more than one price quotation; and (ii) 
such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Qualifying 
Project Activity;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association or 
RS DEF, if the Association, Republika Srpska or RS DEF shall so request, the goods and 
the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Qualifying Project Activity, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
carry out and operate the Qualifying Project Activity in accordance with 
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the MCO.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Employment of Consultants
Page  9
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B.1 and 2 of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance and training assignments under Part B.2 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $137,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for impact assessment advice and research under Part B.2 of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $42,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  10
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
