                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34234-BA

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-35330)

                                          ON A

                                 LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.8 MILLION
                             (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                         FOR A

                    LOCAL INITIATIVES (MICROFINANCE) PROJECT II




                                    December 21, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 2, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (BAM)
                   BAM 1.6611 = US$ 1.00
                    US$ 0.6020 = BAM 1.00

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          BiH               Bosnia and Herzegovina
          CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
          DEF               Development and Employment Foundation
          FBiH              Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
          FSD               Foundation for Sustainable Development
          ICR               Implementation Completion Report
          IDA               International Development Association
          KfW               Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
          KM                Convertible Mark (BAM)
          LIP               Local Initiatives Project
          MCO               Micro Credit Organization
          MFI               Microfinance Institution
          MFU               Microfinance Unit
          MTR               Mid-Term Review
          OED               Operations Evaluation Department
          QAG               Quality Assurance Group
          RS                Republika Srpska
          SIDA              Swedish International Development Authority
          SME               Small and Medium Enterprise
          USAID             United States Agency for International Development
          WB                World Bank




                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
               Sector Manager:       Hermann von Gersdorff
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Goran Tinjic

                                  BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                          Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project II


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Input to the ICR                                             24
Annex 9. Performance Indicators of Partner MCOs                                  31
Annex 10. Sources of Financing of Partner MCOs                                   35

Project ID: P066169                                                  Project Name: Local Initiatives (Microfinance) 2 Project
Team Leader: Goran Tinjic                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Local Initiatives (Microfinance) 2 Project               L/C/TF Number: IDA-35330
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (96%); Central government administration
                            (3%); Law and justice (1%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (P); Improving labor markets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/22/2000                                     Effective: 03/26/2002                03/26/2002
     Appraisal: 04/20/2001                                         MTR: 12/31/2004                  05/19/2003
      Approval: 06/26/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/FEDERATION BH - Foundation for
                                           Sustainable Development - Microfinance Unit; Republika Srpska - Development
                                           and Employment Fund - Microfinance Unit
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Poortman Christiaan J.
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. von Gersdorff                       Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Goran Tinjic                                   Sarah J. Forster
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Pojarski


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Building on the achievements of the first Local Initiatives Project (LIP - Credit N002-0-BOS) which helped
kick-start the development of the microcredit sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Second Local
Initiatives (Microfinance) Project was to increase the scale, financial viability and social impact of
microcredit services in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, the overall development goal of the project
was to address the urgent need to raise incomes, develop businesses and create jobs in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, through provision of credit and other financial services to low-income people. Specifically,
the project was to:

(i)      finance the growth and institutional development of high-performing microfinance institutions
(microcredit organizations, or MCOs, in the context of Bosnia and Herzegovina) that have the capacity to
provide sustainable financial services to significant numbers of low-income clients considered "unbankable"
by mainstream commercial banks, given their low-incomes and limited assets; and

(ii)     support the transition of the microfinance sector towards sustainable sources of financing.

The project development objective proved to be well tailored to respond to the overarching goal of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS FY00 - FY02), namely to increase economic opportunity and improve
the quality of life for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bank's strategic objectives during the
mentioned CAS period were to: (i) strengthen weak and fragmented governance arrangements to build a
solid institutional foundation for broad-based self-sustaining growth and democratic participation; (ii) foster
sustainable and inclusive private sector-led growth and employment as the most important means of
improving economic opportunity for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina; and (iii) build social
sustainability by establishing affordable and equitable social services, including a social safety net for the
most vulnerable.

Directly or indirectly, the project contributed to all three CAS strategic objectives. By ensuring access to
credit services for small and micro enterprises, the project supported sustainable and inclusive
private-sector-led growth. It helped build social sustainability by increasing the quality and scope of credit
services to low-income people ­ including some of the country's most socially vulnerable groups, such as
female (often widowed) heads of households, displaced persons, returning refugees and ex-soldiers ­ such
that they can secure more reliable incomes, and reduce dependency on aid and social welfare. The project
also indirectly contributed to the CAS goal of strengthening institutions and governance, by building
capacity of well-performing microcredit organizations and by supporting the development of a strong and
sustainable microcredit sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Furthermore, the project objective was fully aligned with the overall theme of the country's first Mid-term
Development Strategy/Poverty Reduction Strategy that established a development vision based on
supporting entrepreneurship. In this regard, job creation and enterprise development have been at the heart
of the Mid-term Development Strategy and microcredit services were recognized as an important tool to
help support the entrepreneurial poor develop self-employment activities and micro and small enterprises. In
response to these objectives, the project was designed to meet an overwhelming demand for credit services
by micro and small enterprises that have not had access to such services from the commercial banking
sector.

Finally, recognizing that in a more developed economy, investment for business development would largely
come from the financial sector that provides quality services to all citizens, the project was designed to
support the transition of MCOs towards sustainable (i.e. commercial) sources of financing and towards


                                                        - 2 -

becoming an integral part of the country's overall financial sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Microfinance Fund (Projected cost: US$23.28/Actual cost: US$23.83). Financing under
this component was to be provided to selected, high-performing MCOs so as to increase their outreach and
quality of services to low-income clients. In accordance with the lessons learned from the LIP, the project
was to take an institutional approach, lending funds to MCOs that have demonstrated the capacity to be
institutionally and financially viable over the long-term and that have the capacity to reach large numbers
of low-income clients. Qualifying MCOs would receive long-term, Euro-denominated loans with a 15 year
term, including a 5 year interest-only period. The aim was to provide long-term financing to MCOs so as
to enable them to build-up a capital base and to assist them leverage commercial financing.

Component 2: MFI Legal and Regulatory Reform (Projected cost: US$0.90/Actual cost: US$0.19).
The objective of this component was to support further development of the legal and regulatory framework
for microfinance, so as to enable MCOs to expand their sources of financing and the types of services they
can provide. The aim was to develop alternative institutional forms for MCOs, within a financial sector
framework, that would provide them the possibility to mobilize more sustainable sources of financing, such
as commercial bank financing, equity investment and savings without creating contingent liabilities for the
state.

Component 3: Microfinance Sector Capacity Building Support (Projected cost: US$1.42/Actual cost:
US$1.19). The objective of this component was to further strengthen the institutional and financial
capacity and performance of MCOs in BH. This component was to provide financing for training and
technical consulting services and other capacity building activities for MCOs and the Microfinance Units of
the Foundations responsible for on-lending funds to MCOs, and monitoring their performance.

Component 4: Impact Assessment/Research and Development (Projected cost: US$0.32/Actual cost:
US$0.33). This component was to finance a longitudinal impact assessment, the objectives of which were:
l to document the impacts of a sustainable microcredit sector in BH.
l to provide client-level information to MCOs for use in management decisions.
l to build interest and understanding among MCOs on the use of client-level information for
    documenting program impacts, improving program management, and developing new products and
    services.
l to build local research capacity for collecting and analyzing client-level information on
    microenterprises and microfinance.

The impact assessment was to be designed to answer the following research questions:
1. Do MCOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina reach their target populations?
2. Does microcredit improve the household welfare of borrowers?
3. Does microcredit promote business development?
4. Does microcredit ease the post-conflict transition?

Financing under this component was to cover the costs of: (i) one long-term international advisor; (ii) a
local social research firm; and (iii) the costs associated with the discussion and dissemination of results
e.g., seminars, translation services.




                                                       - 3 -

Component 5: Project Management/Operating Costs (Projected cost: US$1.14/Actual cost:
US$1.53). This component would cover the costs of the Microfinance Units (MFUs) of the Foundations
responsible for project implementation, including staff salaries, staff travel, equipment, vehicle
maintenance, utilities, office supplies, rental of office premises and external audits. These costs were
expected to represent no more than 4 percent of the overall project costs, and less than 2 percent of the
outstanding loan portfolio. Project costs were supposed to be fully funded by the MFUs' own interest
income which would be counted as government counterpart contribution to the project.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although there was no formal quality at entry review, the project performance in this regard was assessed
as satisfactory. The project design was clear and enabled smooth project implementation immediately upon
the effectiveness was declared. Moreover, project design, component structure and implementation
arrangements were completed using the excellent experience from the first Local Initiatives Project.
Although the project effectiveness was delayed due to lengthy process of parliamentary ratification of the
World Bank credits, this did not have a major negative effect on project implementation and performance in
terms of achieving the project development objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project performance in terms of achieving the primary project objective of providing credit to significant
number of low-income clients in order to raise incomes, develop businesses and create jobs, is assessed as
satisfactory. The project has significantly influenced a large pool of entrepreneurial poor, has had a
positive impact on clients' businesses and employment (impact assessment showed that microcredit services
helped create and/or sustain more than 200,000 jobs), and has further strengthened institutional capacity of
partner MCOs to provide high-quality credit services to low-income clientele.

Eight partner MCOs that received loan financing and technical assistance under the project have achieved
the following cumulative results as of the closing date of June 30, 2005:

l Micro-loan disbursement by MCOs - monthly disbursement reached 9,000 loans for the total amount
    of over KM 30 million. This is a 17% increase compared to June 2004, and 40% increase compared to
    June 2003 figures. Since 1997 when MCOs were established and all through LIP I and LIP II these
    MCOs disbursed a total of 380,051 loans -- more than double the project target of 150,000 loans on a
    cumulative basis. The [baseline] number of disbursed loans at startup of the second LIP project was
    slightly more than 50,000, so for the duration of the project the MCOs had disbursed 330,000 new
    loans.

l Client outreach - 98,852 active clients and the outstanding loan portfolio of over KM 230 million.
    Project goal of reaching 50,000 clients with an outstanding loan portfolio of KM 125 million was
    significantly outperformed. Average loan size was KM 3,421 lower than at the begining of the project
    (2002) when the average loan size was KM 3,625. This shows that MCOs remained committed to
    serving low income clientele. It is also important to mention that 50% of borrowers are women.

l Employment impact - based on an impact assessment carried out under the project, it is estimated that
    clients' businesses provide employment to a total of about 212,000 people (estimated employment
    impact is based on finding from the impact assessment that clients' businesses on average employ 2.15



                                                       - 4 -

     people).

l Institutional and financial performance of partner MCOs has been satisfactory. Partner MCOs
     maintain financial sustainability and positive adjusted return on assets. Overall repayment rate remains
     very high with portfolio at risk (over 30 days past due) at 0.99% (as of June 30, 2005). Comparative
     analysis of performance indicators of partner MCOs conducted during implementation, confirms these
     results (see Annex 9 for details).

l Project financing helped partner MCOs to leverage additional donor and, more importantly,
     commercial debt financing. All partner MCOs have raised commercial debt financing in the total
     amount of over KM 76.6 million at project closing (June 2005). This represents a major increase
     comparing to mid-term review findings (June 2003) when the level of commercial debt financing was at
     KM 9.5 million and even greater increase compared to the period at the begging of the project (2002)
     when commercial debt financing was about KM 6.7 million. This trend provides assurance that the
     objective of supporting the transition of the sector towards sustainable (commercial) sources of
     financing has been achieved. See Annex 10 - Sources of financing of partner MCOs for details.

l The project has also facilitated the drafting of a new law on MCOs, which once adopted, would allow
     MCOs to also attract equity investments and offer a range of products to their clients. The last meeting
     of an expert team that included representatives of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entity
     ministries of finance, entity banking agencies, MFUs and MCOs held its final session on December 1,
     2005 and at that meeting members of the expert team reached agreements about the text of the new law
     on MCOs that will be presented to the entity ministers of finance for further processing. It is expected
     that the new law will be adopted during the first half of 2006.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Microfinance Fund. Market-driven loan financing for selected, high-performing MCOs
so as to increase their outreach and quality of services to low income clients.

Achievements under this component and the performance of partner MCOs are rated as highly satisfactory
. In accordance with the lessons learned from the first LIP, the project has taken an institutional approach,
lending funds only to MCOs that have demonstrated the capacity to be institutionally and financially viable
over the long-term and that have the capacity to reach large numbers of low-income clients. MCOs
capacity was assessed against the eligibility criteria that was agreed during the project design. Due
diligence assessment of all eligible MCOs was carried out initially, and nine MCOs met the criteria for loan
financing under this component: MCO Benefit, MCO Bosvita, MCO EKI, MCO MI-BOSPO, MCO LOK
Mikro, MCO Mikrofin, MCO Sinergija-Plus, MCO Micro-SUNRISE and MCO Partner. As a part of the
first round of financing under this component, these MCOs received a long-term, Euro-denominated loan in
the amount of EUR 1 million, with a 15 year term, including a 5 year interest-only period. The interest rate
was 5% per annum and was established at this rate to cover the cost of IDA funds and the administration
costs of the MFUs responsible for project and fund management, inflation, expected loan losses, exchange
rate risk and limited funds for capitalization. This rate, not too far from the currently available commercial
rates at which MCOs borrow from banks, combined the social objectives of the project with the strategy to
build sustainable institutions.

Eight of the above mentioned MCOs have also met the eligibility criteria (modified to reflect progress in
project implementation and overall development of the microcredit sector) for the second and the third
round of financing. Loan terms and conditions remained unchanged although the criteria for the third round
of financing included performance indicators that allowed the MFUs to provide more funding to those
MCOs that had the best performance in terms of quality of services to target clients. The only MCO which



                                                      - 5 -

did not meet the criteria for the second round of financing was MCO Bosvita. However, this MCO has
merged with MCO Partner, which was assessed as much welcome first sign of the consolidation within the
sector.

Throughout the project implementation, partner MCOs have maintained strong institutional and financial
performance. While increasing their outreach and number of active clients, partner MCOs managed to
maintain financial sustainability and positive return on assets. Portfolio at risk was also below 1% during
the project implementation and was 0.99% as of June 2005 (project target was <5%). As mentioned above,
project financing has helped partner MCOs to leverage significant additional commercial debt financing
which is an important project achievement. Finally, increasing competition in the financial sector market
has resulted in better loan terms and conditions for final borrowers, better access to financial services,
lower collateral requirements and efficient operations of financial intermediaries (MCOs in particular).

Component 2: MFI Legal and Regulatory Reform. The objective of this component was to support
further development of the legal and regulatory framework for microfinance.

This project component has facilitated a much-needed discussion on the status of MCOs in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and on their sustainable future, and has also stimulated the drafting and the processing
towards adoption of the new law on MCOs. Based on these achievements, this component is rated
satisfactory.

The project has facilitated a stakeholder consensus on the need for a commercial form of microlending
institution, and for legally and practically workable mechanisms for the existing nonprofit MCOs to
"transform" into a commercial legal form. This new form of commercial microlending organization would
have the option of transforming into a licensed commercial bank (once it can meet the prudential
requirements applicable under the banking law and regulations). Once the legal team constituted under the
project provided the draft of the new law on MCOs, the state-level working group was created in March
2005 including representatives of the Central Bank, entity-level ministries of finance, the State Ministry of
Finance and Treasury, entity Banking agencies, MFUs and practitioner representatives from each entity.
The role of this working group was to ensure that the new MCO law is fully harmonized between the two
entities and that it reflect prevailing thinking about microcredit sector as a part of the overall financial
sector in the country.

It is expected that the draft of the new MCO law will be processed within the entity ministries of finance by
the end of this calendar year and adopted during the first half of 2006.

Depending on future trends in the financial sector and a possibility to introduce the new state level banking
legislation, it would be advisable to consider "migration" of the MCO law to become a part of such banking
legislation that would provide framework for banks and other non-bank financial intermediaries.

Component 3: Microfinance Sector Capacity Building Support. Financing under this component was
provided for training and technical assistance services for MCOs. The objective of this component was to
further strengthen the institutional and financial capacity and performance of MCOs in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.

Overall performance under this component is rated satisfactory. An external international consultant (Carl
Bro - Denmark) was selected on a competitive basis to provide demand-driven consulting services to all
interested MCOs (not just those who received loan financing under the project). A total of 11 MCOs
received technical assistance under this component. Technical assistance was designed as a combination of


                                                       - 6 -

hands-on training for individual MCOs meeting their particular needs; training seminars covering issues of
concern for most MCOs; and study tours to learn about experiences of microcredit practitioners in other
financial markets (Denmark and Mexico).

Technical services were focused on the following five areas: (i) governance ­ board and managers; (ii)
human resources; (iii) product development; (iv) transparency; and (v) financial management. MFUs
carried out a review at the end of the project to assess what impact these technical services had on
performance of participating MCOs (report available in project files). Using a set of quantitative and
qualitative indicators, MFUs found that technical services extended under the project had a positive impact
on MCOs performance in all of the above mentioned areas. For example, MCOs received necessary
technical assistance to develop new loan products for small scale farming and agriculture for which there
was increased demand (40% of loans disbursed in June 2005 were for small-scale agriculture and farming).
In the light of the proposed new law on MCOs, a training seminar was organized to explore different
transformation options and issues that MCOs should take into consideration when pursuing transformation.


An important aspect of this component was mandatory co-financing of technical assistance by participating
MCOs. At the end of the project this co-financing reached 50% of the total cost of services provided under
this component. Such a practice significantly increased MCOs "ownership" of technical services. At the
same time, active involvement in all phases of the technical assistance program helped MCOs strenghten
their capacity to identify areas where assistance is needed, design adequate terms of references, appraise
and select consultants and evaluate their performance and impact of services provided.


Component 4: Impact Assessment/Research and Development. This component financed a
longitudinal impact assessment to document the impact of the microcredit sector and to provide
client-level information to MCOs and other stakeholders.

Overall performance under this component is rated satisfactory. The impact assessment was designed to
address four key questions:

   l Do microcredit organizations (MCOs) in Bosnia and Herzegovina reach their target populations?
   l Does microcredit improve the household welfare of borrowers?
   l Does microcredit promote business development?
   l Does microcredit ease or speed the post-conflict transition?


To answer these questions, the impact assessment relied on a mixed-method approach, which combined i) a
longitudinal survey of 2,561 microentreprenuers; ii) case study interviews of 16 microcredit clients and iii.)
client' loan history data. The two rounds of the survey (conducted in 2002 and 2004) created a panel data
set that followed the same households over time. The survey was based on a quasi-experimental design,
meaning that non-clients were included in the study for comparison purpose. The final report on this
assessment was completed and presented to all stakeholders in May 2005.

Findings of the impact assessment were positive in terms of the overall impact of microcredit services and
could be summarized as follows:

Business characteristics (from 2004 survey of MCO clients):
- Sectors: trade (36%), services (29%), livestock and agriculture (27%), small-scale production 8%);
- Location: FBH (57%), RS (41%), Brcko district (2%);
- Employment: 2 full-time workers (average client' business employs 2.15 workers. Later loans raise


                                                      - 7 -

worker productivity through business investment that leads to higher profits and income);
- Registration Rate: 55% (positive impact of 13% on the growth in business registration for clients as
compared to non-clients;

Clients' use of microcredit:
- Clients used loans to start or strengthen their businesses (may be household's primary or secondary
income source; also used to recover or replace income sources lost in war). Positive impact of KM 900 on
the growth in per capita household income. For new clients, positive impact of KM 1,100 on the growth in
per capita household income. Significant drop in clients' poverty rate, from 51% in 2002 to 46% in
2004;
- All or most of borrowed funds spent on business (mostly used for working capital; debt management led
to increased financial discipline; greater focus on planning and growth).

Benefits of microcredit: clients' views
- Higher microenterprise income from increased scale of business;
- Better liquidity and income security;
- Applications rejected by banks, bank requirements too difficult;
- Availability of loans to start a business.

Component 5: Project Management. This component financed the costs of the MFUs of the two entity
foundations (Federation Foundation for Sustainable Development and Republika Srpska Development
and Employment Fund) responsible for project implementation.

Overall performance under this component is assessed as highly satisfactory.

Project implementation was the responsibility of the microfinance units (MFUs) housed within the two
entity foundations (Development and Employment Foundation in Republika Srpska and Foundation for
Sustainable Development in the Federation BiH). MFUs performance has been highly satisfactory
throughout the project implementation. MFUs have developed excellent partnership with MCOs and were
viewed as the key factor for success of the operation. Furthermore, MFUs developed respectable capacity
for monitoring MCO performance and helping MCOs identify weaknesses that need to be addressed. MFUs
enforced strict adherence to the performance standards established under the project. Although the project
was implemented as a single operations with two parts (one for each entity) the MFUs and their
foundations worked closely together and have maintained excellent cooperation througout the project
implementation. Such performance has also contributed to expansion of microcredit services across
inter-entity lines as 7 out of 8 patner MCOs have been extending their services in both entities.

Performance of the two foundations as a whole, whose departments were responsible for financial
management and procurement, is rated as satisfactory. The cost overrun on this component is due to
exchange rate differences, debt service (service and commitment charges for IDA Credit) in the amount of
KM 404,000 (about US$ 250,000 equivalent) and somewhat higher than expected overhead costs in the
Federation BH. Financing under this component was fully covered from the interest income on loans made
to MCOs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A



                                                      - 8 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project continued the strong institutional-development trend taken by LIP, and its impact is assessed as
substantial. The project's institutional approach and the achievements in this area have been recognized as
the main generator of microfinance activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina today. The project has introduced
the principles of financial services to low income people based on international best practice. At the end of
the project all partner MCOs have reached financial sustainability and are expected to continue provision
of services to target clientele on a sustainable basis over the longer-term.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant external shocks or events which specifically affected this project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As mentioned previously in this report, the project effectiveness was delayed due to lengthy process of
parliamentary ratification of the development credit agreements and project agreements. Although this
delay did not have a negative effect on the project implementation, particularly given clear project scope
and design, the government should consider simplifying this procedure that already caused and continues to
cause effectiveness delays of the World Bank financed operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation units (MFUs of the two entity foundations) in both entities demonstrated high levels
of commitment and professionalism which ultimately led to the achievement of project objectives. In
addition to managing all aspects of the project implementation in a professional manner, MFUs played an
important role in promoting microcredit sector and ensuring that the sector follows international best
practices in developing financial services for low-income clients. It should also be emphasized that MFUs
also provided assistance to the National Association of Microcredit Organizations (AMFI) and helped its
members (12 strongest MCOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina) better define a vision and mission for the
association. As a result, the association is increasingly recognized as a promotor of industry standards and
an important advocate of improvements in the business environment that affects performance of both
microenterpreneurs and MCOs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost was estimated at US$ 27.06 million of which US$ 20 million in IDA credit (SDR 15.8
million equivalent). Actual financing for the project reached US$ 27.07 million and comprised of IDA
credit in the amount of US$ 22.71 million and counterpart fuding in the amount of US$ 4.36 million.
Higher than expected amount of IDA financing in US$ terms was due to exchange rate differencies and in
spite of an undisbursed balance of about 2.6% of the approved credit. This undisbursed balance was due to
significant savings that were made in technical assistance components (components 2 and 3). It was
initially projected that about US$ 2.32 million will be needed for these two components and actual
disbursement reached US$ 1.38 million. These savings were made as a result of a good management by
MFUs and due to co-financing by MCOs for technical assistance services (as described in section 4.2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of this project's results is rated as likely. The project has created a critical mass of
institutional capacity, both in the MCOs, governmental private sectors to ensure continuous operation and
development of the microcredit scheme. There is also a shared understanding among stakeholders of the
importance and of the future development of this sector, and governments (state and entities) are acting


                                                        - 9 -

towards ensuring an environment for further development of the microcredit services as integral part of the
overall financial sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are a couple of sustainability-related issues that
still remain open.

First, the adoption of the new law on MCOs is a key challenge for the medium-to-long term development of
the microcredit sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the new law is not adopted, there is a risk that the
achievements and the capacity built under the project may not be fully utilized. The proposed new MCO
law is a necessary step in a two-stage process of integration of the microcredit sector in the overall
financial sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The proposed new law will, among other, allow for the MCOs
to become companies with transferable assets and open opportunities for integration in the banking and
financial sector.

Second, appropriate institutional arrangements should be put in place to ensure continued support (at least
during the transition period) for the rapidly growing microcredit sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this
regard, it is important to define the status of the two foundations and their MFUs. Any future
transformation of these institutions should take into account the possible influence on capacity by changed
structure, employee status or salary levels. Performance of MFUs as project implementation agencies was
highly satisfactory throughout the project implementation. MFUs should be allowed to operate until an
appropriate institutional arrangement is developed.

Third, the decision of the Borrower how to use the credit proceeds has important sustainability
implications. It is advisable to preserve the purpose of the proceeds and use them towards meeting the
same development objectives at least until the MCOs are fully integrated into the financial sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned in the previous section, there are two separate aspects of transition to regular operations: i)
full integration of the microcredit sector into the overall financial sector; and ii) institutional arrangement
for future management of the project. These issues were discussed with key stakeholders during the
implementation completion mission and the following next steps were agreed:

l adoption of the new entity level laws on MCOs during the first half of 2006. As previously stated,
     depending on future trends in the financial sector and a possibility to introduce the new state level
     banking legislation, it would be advisable to consider "migration" of these MCO laws to become a part
     of such banking legislation that would provide framework for banks and other non-bank financial
     intermediaries.

l In Republika Srpska, recently adopted law on Development and Employment Fund envisages
     continuation of activities supported under the project in essentially same manner and pursuing the same
     development objectives.

l In the Federation BH, the Ministry of Finance will develop a proposal for future management of
     revolving credit funds extended under the project and will submit it to the World Bank for comments by
     the end of this calendar year. During consultations carried out during the implementation completion
     mission, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
     expressed their support for preserving the purpose of the proceeds and their use for further
     development of the microcredit sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                      - 10 -

The Bank's performance in preparing the project is rated satisfactory. The project was a follow-up
operation to a successful first Local Initiatives Project, which was assessed as best-practice by OED.
Project identification to effectiveness took 20 months. Appraisal took place in April 2001. The project was
approved by the Board on June 26, 2001 and became effective on March 26, 2002. In all stages of project
preparation and implementation, the team composition included Bank staff and experienced consultants
with extensive experience in microfinance best practices plus a filed based Task Team Leader with
awareness of the political and social context in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is judged as satisfactory. Throughout project implementation there has been intensive
supervision by the field-based Task Team Leader with the support of operations staff (field based
procurement officer and FMS specialist) and microfinance consultants. The field-based supervision allowed
for daily contact with the MFUs and partner MCOs. Supervision missions were carried out regularly with
continuity of staff on both the Bank and counterpart side. Close working relationships, based on mutual
trust and respect, were established between the Bank and the MFU staff as well as with the management of
partner MCOs. The Bank team was viewed as responsive to the project needs and open to approving
modifications that would help achieve better overall results.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank team supported the design and
implementation of an effective operation which fully met its objectives. Furthermore, the Bank was
instrumental in promoting an institutional approach in supporting development of microcredit sector in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such an approach was adhered to by other financiers (USAID, SIDA, KfW,
commercial lenders) greatly contributing to the overall positive trends that were recorded in the sector over
the last years.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance throughout the project preparation and implementation is considered
satisfactory. Encouraged by the successes from the first Local Initiatives Project, Borrower was supportive
of the proposed project design. Furthermore, as stated in section 3 of this report, the project design was
fully in accordance with the country's Mid-term development strategy which recognized microcredit
services as an important tool to reduce poverty and promote entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. There was no political interference
in decision making.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of implementation agencies was satisfactory to highly satisfactory throughout the project
preparation and implementation. MFUs operated as separate units within Development and Employment
Foundation in Republika Srpska and the Foundation for Sustainable Development in the Federation BH. It
is thanks to continued efforts and commitment of the MFUs that the project objectives were achieved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Transition to sustainability of the microcredit sector takes time, and must be a part of the initial



                                                     - 11 -

project design. The project's strategic view of a sustainable MCO sector is one of the elements of this
operation that was found essential by all interviewed stakeholders. However, the sequence of the LIP I and
LIP II demonstrated that sustainability meets many challenges along the way, and needs to be factored into
project design from the very beginning as these two projects did. The exit strategy was clear from the very
beginning. That helped all players and most importantly ­ participating MCOs, and gave them enough time
to develop their own strategies for development, to choose their own niche, and to adapt to the changing
sectoral environment.

2. Targeted technical assistance is of great importance. All MCOs recognized the need to differentiate
their services and products in order to stand out from the competitors and in terms of transforming their
structure and type of organization. The ultimate result of the technical assistance program implemented
under the project was that MCOs learned how to assess their needs for technical services and how to work
with consultants. Co-financing of the technical service costs by participating MCOs also introduced
discipline and helped MCOs recognize that the demand-driven sustainability-oriented approach in using
technical assistance is key factor in successful management of the technical services.

3. There is no conflict between the financial and social goals of this type of operations. One of the main
criticisms of microfinance operations is the risk for the sustainability objective and the poverty-targeting
objective "to cancel each other." Experience from this project suggests that achieving simultaneously these
two objectives is not only possible, but also leads to synergies. Project implementation history and a
three-year impact assessment of microcredit on clients in Bosnia and Herzegovinaconducted under the
project, proved that clients need ongoing access to microcredits that enable them to increase their incomes,
provide self-employment at levels that contribute significantly to household income and earn a good living
for their families. At the same time the sustainable pricing policy of MCOs not only results in MCOs
financial sustainability but also brings in positive results to their clients in the form of better services.

4. Focused objectives are essential. Focusing the operation on developing a very specific type of
microcredit services (microcredits for income generating activities), and on targeting specific types of
clients (low-income enterpreneurs) was important.

5. Performance based financing. Loan financing under the project was performance based in the sense that
MCOs were obliged to maintain certain performance standards to remain eligible to retain existing and be
eligible for future financing. This has proven to be a strong incentive for MCOs to perform well. MCOs
recognized that failure to maintain agreed performance standards would not only deprive them from access
to project resources but would also send a signal to other financiers. Project policy to impose strict
adherence with agreed performance standards was also singled out by many stakeholders as an important
contribution of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Full text of the counterpart's input to this ICR is provided in Annex 8. In summary, the implementing
agencies believe that the main project objectives were met or surpassed. This conclusion is applied to client
outreach, loan disbursement, number of active clients and portfolio growth. At the same time MCOs
remained focused on the low segments of the market and continued to serve low income
people/entrepreneurs. It is also stated that "the only project's objective that has not been fully met was
development of the new legislation for microfinance in Bosnia and Herzegovina."

On project design, the counterparts assert that the continued support to the microcredit organizations in



                                                      - 12 -

terms of both loan financing and technical assistance were key. Project implementation arrangements were
assessed as straightforward and easy to follow. Finally, the overall operation experience was assessed as
very positive.

(b) Cofinanciers:
During the course of the project implementation and later during the implementation completion mission the
World Bank team met and maintained contacts with other donors (KfW, USAID) and financiers (Raiffeisen
bank) in the microcredit sector. These partner organizations emphasized the key role of this project for the
development of the sector. Donor partners that invested in the sector following the World Bank's lead, noted
that they would not have had the opportunity to do so in an efficient and focused manner had it not been for
the LIP II project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The World Bank team met with participating MCOs and private sector partners who confirmed the key role
of the project for the development and efficiency of the sector. They noted particularly the orientation of
the objectives towards eventual sustainability of the MCOs, and in most cases requested continued World
Bank involvement and follow-up to ensure monitoring of the sector's development and adoption of
necessary regulatory acts.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                    - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Increases in entrepreneurial income and       55,000 active clients. Increasing impact on  98,852 active clients. It is estimated that
employment in informal, micro and small       employment and self-employment (as           microcredit services provided by partner
enterprises.                                  evidenced by the impact assessment).         MCOs have had a positive employment
                                                                                           impact. Impact assessment carried out under
                                                                                           the project showed that client's businesses
                                                                                           on average employ 2.15 people. The same
                                                                                           assessment also proved that microcredit
                                                                                           services had a very positive impact on
                                                                                           business income and overall level of
                                                                                           household income for clients.
Sustainable delivery of microfinance services Partner MCOs have developed clear vision of Throughout the project implementation,
by well-managed, transparent, and financially their future institutional development and   partner MCOs have maintained strong
viable MFIs.                                  position at the financial sector market.     performance as measured by a set of
                                              Lending operations adequate to ensure        institutional and financial indicators as
                                              long-term delivery of services to low-income outlined in Annex 9 of this ICR. In addition to
                                              clientele.                                   this, partner MCOs have developed strong
                                                                                           relationship with international and local
                                                                                           commercial lenders and are expected to
                                                                                           formalize such partnerships with the adoption
                                                                                           of the new law on MCOs.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Investment in 5-10 MFIs that meet agreed      Investment in 8 strong MCOs which have       8 strong sustainable MCOs which have
performance targets including: increasing     develop clear vision as to their future      developed clear vision as to their future
outreach to low-income clients, good          institutional development. 55,000 active     institutional development. PAR at >1%.
governance, portfolio quality of no more than clients. PAR - less than 5%. Positive ROA    Positive ROA for partner MCOs. High
5% of portfolio at risk (past 30 days), high  for partner MCOs. High operating efficiency. operating efficiency.
levels of operating efficiency, positive ROA.
Formation of legal working group. Agreement Law on MCOs amended. Changes                   Working group on legal framework for
on draft legal and regulatory reform          incorporated in other parts of legislation   microfinance was established and local and
proposals. Implementation of reform           enabling further development of microfinance international experts developed a draft new
proposal. Increase in debt and equity         industry and transition of MFIs.             law on MCOs that was presented to the entity
financing for MFIs. MFIs transformation.                                                   ministries of finance. A working group
                                                                                           organized by the Central Bank of Bosnia and
                                                                                           Herzegovina was than tasked to carry out
                                                                                           final review of the proposed new law and
                                                                                           ensure that the new law will be fully
                                                                                           harmonized between the entities and will
                                                                                           reflect current thinking about microfinance as
                                                                                           an integral part of the financial sector.
MFIs performance indicators demonstrate       Strong MCOs performance and capacity to      Fully achieved - see Annex 9 for details.
capacity to manage increasing outreach to     serve significant number of low-income       Several partner MCOs have already
low-income clients. Increased microfinance    clients (55,000 active clients). Partnership developed strong partnerships with local and
knowledge among key stakeholders.             arrangements between MCOs and                international commercial banks. These
Increased partnership/integration between     commercial banks.                            partnerships are expected to be formalized
microfinance and formal banking sector.                                                    with the adoption of the new law on MCOs.
                                                                                           There was one merger completed during the
                                                                                           project implementation (MCO Partner and
                                                                                           MCO Bosvita) and negotiations are currently
                                                                                           ongoing for another potential merger between
                                                                                           two partner MCOs.
On-time delivery of high quality impact       Longitudinal impact assessment completed     Longitudinal impact assessment completed
assessment and research studies that are      and clear set of recommendations provided to and clear set of recommendations provided to
followed-up by project and MFIs               and adopted by key stakeholders.             and adopted by key stakeholders.
management.




                                                                    - 14 -

1End of project




                   - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Microfinance Fund                                           23.28           23.83              102
MFI Legal and Regulatory Reform                              0.90             0.19              21
Microfinance Sector Capacity Building Support                1.42             1.19              84
Impact Assessment, Research and Development                  0.32             0.33             103
Project Management                                           1.14             1.53             134

Total Baseline Cost                                         27.06           27.07
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00
                        Total Project Costs                 27.06           27.07
                  Total Financing Required                  27.06           27.07


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.48          0.00         2.48
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.61)          (0.00)       (1.61)
4. Microcredits                    0.00             0.00        23.28          0.00         23.28
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (18.21)         (0.00)      (18.21)
5. Recurrent costs                 0.00             0.00         1.30          0.00         1.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.18)          (0.00)       (0.18)
   Total                           0.00             0.00        27.06          0.00         27.06
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (20.00)         (0.00)      (20.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         1.71           0.00        1.71
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.63)         (0.00)       (1.63)
4. Microcredits



                                                - 16 -

                                            0.00               0.00             23.83             0.00             23.83
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (21.08)            (0.00)           (21.08)
    5. Recurrent costs                      0.00               0.00              1.53             0.00              1.53
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             27.07             0.00             27.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (22.71)            (0.00)           (22.71)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Microfinance Fund           18.21         5.07                    21.08         2.75                  115.8     54.2
2. MFI Legal and                0.50         0.40                     0.18         0.01                  36.0      2.5
Regulatory Reform
3. Microfinance Sector          1.00         0.42                     1.11         0.07                  111.0     16.7
Capacity Building Support
4. Impact Assessment,           0.29         0.03                     0.34         0.00                  117.2     0.0
Reesearch and
Development
5. Incremental Operating        0.00         1.14                     0.00         1.53                   0.0     134.2
Expenses




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/10/2000                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             MICROFIN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL ADVISOR (1)
              11/24/2000                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             MICROFIN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FIN. SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPACT ASSESS.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/12/2001                5    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2)
              05/03/2001                5    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              11/30/2001                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              06/20/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1); FIN. SEC.       S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); MICROFIN.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/28/2002                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              05/30/2003                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S              HS
                                             MICROFIN. SPECIALIST (2);
                                             SR. FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              10/24/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S              HS
                                             MICROFIN. SPECIALIST (1)
              05/28/2004                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S              HS
              11/05/2004                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S              HS
              04/29/2005                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             MICROFIN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MFUs LEGAL ADVISOR (1)

 ICR
              11/28/2005                1     OPERATIONS OFFICER              S               S
                                              (1)




                                              - 19 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                          51.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    25                          60.6
  Supervision                              68                          45.1
  ICR                                       6                           5.4
  Total                                  121                         162.5




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document No. 22122-BIH, dated May 31, 2001.
2. Country Assistance Strategy Report No. 20592-BIH, dated June 14, 2000.
3. Country Assistance Strategy Report No. 29196-BA, dated August 12, 2004.
4. Bosnia and Herzegovina Banking Sector Review 2004, ECSPF, WB.
5. Impact Assessment Report, by Elizabeth Dunn of Impact LLP, May 2005.
6. Mid-Term Review Report, May 2003.
7. Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Supervision Aide Memoires.
8. Project Status Reports/ISRs.




                                                   - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Input

                                          Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                 Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project II
                                           Credit No. 3533-BOS
                             Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's)


Introduction

Implementation of the Local Initiatives Projects I&II (LIP) started in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996. The
key objectives of the first project were to assist in restarting economic activities after the war and to
jump-start the development of viable microcredit institutions. This support included financing of the
MCO's loan portfolio and technical assistance as well as some financing of operating cost at the beginning,
together with the development of the appropriate legal framework for microfinance.

The first project was completed in 2000 and achieved good results. After three to four years of operations
most of the MCOs financed under the project reached or were very close to the full operational and
financial sustainability, 50,261 small loans had been disbursed to low-income clients for a total of KM 148
million and a new law on microcredit organizations had been adopted. All of the project's original
objectives had been met or surpassed. The ICR rated the project as Highly Satisfactory.

The Second Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project ­ LIP II was designed to build on the achievements of
LIP I and increase the scale, financial viability and social impact of microfinance services in BiH. This
project had been explicitly designed to ease the transition of the microfinance sector from dependence on the
World Bank and donor financing towards more sustainable sources of financing. The project also
encouraged MCOs to pay more attention to client-level information for understanding program impacts and
developing new products and services. The aim was to support the shift from a product-oriented approach
to a more client-centered approach and achieve a good balance between social and financial outcomes.

Development and Employment Foundation of Republika Srpska (RS DEF) and the Foundation for
Sustainable Development (FSD) and its Microfinance Units (MFUs) established by the entity governments
to implement various World Bank financed projects, including LIP II, were responsible for day-to-day
management of the project,. Both Foundations had the qualified staff, independence and capacity to
successfully implement the project.

Project Objectives

The overall development goal of the project was to address the urgent need to raise incomes, develop
businesses and create jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, through provision of credit and other financial
services to low-income people.

Specifically, the project has:

·        Financed growth and institutional development of high-performing microfinance institutions
that had capacity to provide sustainable financial services to significant numbers of low-income clients
that have limited or no access to credits provided by commercial banks, given their low-incomes and
limited assets.



                                                     - 24 -

This objective has been fully met and the table below shows the achievements reached compared against
planned goals.

                Indicator                              Planned                       Achieved
                                                                                  June 30, 2005
Number of loans disbursed                               150,000                      380,051
Amount of loans disbursed in KM                      430,000,000                  1,239,887,970
Number of active clients                                50,000                        98,852
Gross portfolio outstanding in KM                    125,000,000                   230,438,638
Portfolio at risk (over 30 days)                         < 5%                         0.99%
    Table 1: Achievements of LIP II

·       Supported the transition of the microfinance sector towards sustainable sources of financing.

This objective has also been fully met with all supported MCOs accessing lines of credit from local
commercial banks and loans from international financial institutions. The commercial financing for 8
partner MCOs as of June 30, 2005 amounts to approximately 70 mil KM. Some are also prepared for
equity investments from international financiers once the new law is passed.

Summary Project Implementation

Component A ­ Microcredits
Project has been implemented in close cooperation with the high performing and performance based selected
microcredit organizations. Following microcredit organizations were financed under the project
(Microcredit Fund):
1.      Benefit, Isto·no Sarajevo
2.      MI-BOSPO, Tuzla
3.      EKI, Sarajevo
4.      LOKmicro, Sarajevo
5.      Mikrofin, Banja Luka
6.      Partner Microcredit Organization, Tuzla
7.      Sinergijaplus, Banja Luka
8.      Sunrise, Sarajevo

Long term (15 years repayment term; 5 years grace period) Restricted Purpose Loan Agreements were
signed with the MCOs. The interest rate is 5% per annum on outstanding balance.

Component B ­ Consultants' services and training
Under this component following activities were financed and carried out:
·       MFI Legal and Regulatory Reform
·       Microfinance Sector Capacity Building Support
·       Impact Assessment/Research and Development

In order to implement this project component number of local and international consultants/experts were
hired. They contributed a lot to the successful implementation of the project and to the further development
of the microfinance sector in the country. Full details of what was included in each of these components can
be found in earlier sections of the ICR. Comments on project objectives and lessons learned can be found
below.



                                                     - 25 -

Assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation experience

The rationale for LIP II was to ensure the microfinance sector - carefully nurtured during LIP I - would be
sustainable for the long term. This proved to be even more important than anticipated. In order to grow and
access more sustainable financing, MCOs required significant technical assistance and for MCOs to
become institutions that can take equity investments the process of preparing a draft law for both entities
has been arduous. Furthermore, without this project there is no way that more than 98,000 low income
clients could have got loans. For the same reasons, the design of having the financing, technical assistance,
impact assessment and legal in parallel also proved essential since they were all integral to the sustainable
development of the sector.

· Meeting the Project' objectives. During 3.25 years of project implementation most of the project
objectives have been met or surpassed. This is very much characteristic in terms of client outreach, loan
disbursement, number of active clients and portfolio growth (as indicated in the Table 1). At the same time
MCOs remained focused on the bottom of the market and continued to serve low income
people/entrepreneurs. Final report on the impact of microcredits on clients in BiH, prepared as a result of
the comprehensive impact assessment, provides very detailed information about the clients of microcredit
organizations, impact of microcredits on client's business and living standard. Furthermore, the report
provides the information about how clients integrate microcredit into their financial management practices,
how they use microcredit to develop their businesses, the challenges and obstacles they face in their
businesses, and their views and opinions about microcredit.

· Transition of the sector towards commercial sources of financing. Project's objective of supporting the
transition of the sector towards the commercial sources of financing has been fully met, too and commercial
banks operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina significantly increased its lending to the MCOs during the years
2004-2005. Table 2. shows the breakdown of commercial debt financing of 8 partner MCOs as of June 30,
2005.

· Legal and regulatory framework for microfinance. The only project's objective that has not been fully
met was development of the new legislation for microfinance in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Draft new law has
been prepared by the local lawyers with full cooperation of the international legal advisor, representatives
of the microcredit organizations and project team. By the end of 2005, the draft law will be send to the
relevant ministries for further procedure, and this process will be monitored by MFUs. It is envisioned that
the new law on microcredit organizations will be enacted in the first part of 2006. These future challenges
represent the new episode in the development of microfinance industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the
aim of providing quality services to clients, reaching the stability of microfinance sector and its integration
into the inclusive financial system of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

· Key factors in project design. Continued support to the microcredit organizations in terms of both loan
fund financing and technical assistance and planned orientation of the sector towards the commercial
sources of financing were key factors in project design. This was next logical step after the successful
implementation of the first project.

· Project design and implementation arrangements were very simple. Second project continued to
provide financing to the growing microcredit organizations, most of which were financed under the first
project. World Bank and Government financing has been channeled through the two Foundations to the
microcredit organizations.



                                                     - 26 -

· The overall operation experience was very positive.

Lessons learned

1. Performance based financing was critically important to MCOs achieving project goals

To reflect the progress in project implementation and ultimately achieve all of the objectives, the project
team was developing and modifying eligibility criteria for each round of financing with the aim to aid
MCOs to graduate to the desired level of institutional development.

MFUs took a proactive role in determining the course of the MCOs development, acting like an investor,
encouraging the transition towards sustainable financing. The MFUs used the "carrot" of financing and the
"stick" of intensifying criteria, with each subsequent round of financing. Team further defined the criteria
into General and Specific for each of the MCOs to ensure their compliance with set standards and promote
performance of selected partner MCOs. Intensifying criteria each time had immediate effect of providing an
incentive to consider consolidation within the sector MCOs.

The project's mid term review suggested the MFUs take a proactive role in picking the three winner MCOs
that appear best positioned to achieve large scale and attract new financiers, throughout the last cycle of
financing. The MFU team adopted a nuanced approach to achieving this goal by assessing the MCOs
performance against the objectives. A "league" table of MCOs performance indicators was prepared with
each MCO scored against the desired objectives as a final step in the assessment process, which
successfully pointed out the best performing MCOs. Based on the achieved scores, equivalent funds were
then assigned to each MCO.

Employing the aforementioned step in the assessment process resulted in multiply positive effects such as
enhanced assessment transparency, and more importantly in furthering the project objectives by enabling
the access to commercial funds for all MCOs thus maintaining the sector competition which leads to
affirmative impact on clients. At the same time, results of additional step in the assessment fully complied
with MTR suggestions, as majority of remaining funds were distributed among three "best performing"
organizations.

2. Skilled microfinance and finance personnel at the MFUs were essential to ensure rapid development
of the MCOs and the sector (as well as prevent misuse of funds)

One of the most important keys for successful implementation of the project was having skilled local
personnel at the MFUs, microfinance experts that successfully dealt with all emerging issues in MCOs and
in the sector's development. Relevant knowledge management helped in building strong and respectful
microfinance institutions and incorporating them into the overall financial system. Project management
successfully introduced project objectives as well as partner MCOs to all key stakeholders. This had a
positive impact on the MCOs institutional development and transition towards sustainable financing.
Skilled MFU' personnel were also important in selecting the international consultants, microfinance experts
that provided insight into the best practices of microfinance worldwide, therefore benefiting local staff as
well as partner MCOs. Without a respectable MFU that supported the best performing MCOs and
encouraged local and international financiers to continue supporting the development of microfinance sector
in BiH the project could not have achieved its goals.

3. Regular financial and social reporting on MCO performance and project goals kept all stakeholders


                                                    - 27 -

focused on the task.

MFUs conducted regular monitoring of MCOs' performance in terms of financial and institutional
achievement, and provided recommendations for improvements and follow up. Benchmarking against
required standards based on peer institutions promoted further improvements of individual performances
among MCOs. Regular assessment served not only to encourage progress in performances but to promote
sector transparency and safeguard its resources. Comprehensive and transparent monitoring reports serve
as an independent review of MCOs with all major donors, financiers and rating agencies and allow better
access to global finances.

4. Targeted technical assistance (TA) for MCOs was necessary for project development in accordance
with project objectives.

Delivery method: As the implementation of the TA program went on under LIP I it was becoming clear
that a more flexible approach was needed in order to meet the needs of the MCOs, meaning that the shift
from group training sessions to more individual and direct consultancies was more beneficial to MCO staff
in terms of learning and applying the knowledge into their day-to-day activities. Both in terms of efficiency
in addressing the individual MCOs needs in the achievement of expected results, and in terms of
transferring sustainable technical assistance, the flexible approach proved more viable.

The need for targeted direct technical assistance to the individual MCO: In the light of the current
development of the sector in relation to stronger competition among the MCOs and other players on the
market for financial services, the MCOs recognized the need to differentiate their services and products in
order to stand out from the competitors and in terms of transforming their structure and type of
organisation.

Analysis of TA needs and managing the consultants: The ultimate result of the TA program implemented
by LIP II was that MCOs learned how to assess their needs for technical services and how to work with
consultants. This is so important to MCOs being able to be sustainable institutions. Cofinancing of the
technical service costs by participating MCOs proved the importance of TA to the Project. Recognition by
the MCOs that demand-driven approach and "knowing what you want to achieve approach" is the key
factor in successful management of the technical services, was a rewarding result.

5. The achievement of both financial and social goals for the MCOs was possible and there was no
conflict between them,

Project implementation and a three-year impact assessment of microcredit on clients in Bosnia and
Herzegovina conducted under LIP II, prove that clients need ongoing access to microcredits that will
enable them to increase their incomes, provide self-employment at levels that contribute significantly to
household income and earn a good living for their families. To enable all this clients are ready to pay for the
cost of microcredit and they point to several advantages of microcredit programs, including relatively easy
procedures, the development of an ongoing credit relationship, and in particular the assurance of being able
to take a loan in the future. Clients are especially satisfied with the quality of the personal service they
receive from the staff of the microcredit organizations.

At the same time that clients have experienced positive impacts, the MCOs improved their services offered
to clients, reduced the interest rate, and built strong financial institutions with increased profitability and
efficiency ratios. These MCOs are financially sustainable and capable of continuing to serve
microenterprise owners into the future. They fulfill an important mission, since the vast majority of their


                                                      - 28 -

clients do not receive the equivalent financial services from other types of financial institutions. Continued
strengthening of the microcredit industry will help to ensure that current and future clients enjoy higher
incomes and stronger businesses, and that these microenterprises will continue to become integrated into the
national economy and contribute to a more robust economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

6. The Government and the World Bank's specific roles were also critical.

The Government and World Bank decision that project management should be based on market principles
proved to be of key importance for the project success. MCO' financing based on strict institutional and
financial eligibility criteria, ensured the market selection of MCOs even during the "donor funding phase",
before MCOs became interested to commercial investors and financiers. Similarly, establishment of the
market interest rate, offered by MCOs to clients, enabled MCOs to reach financial sustainability in
relatively short period of time, thus improving their supply of microfinance services.

Second key decision of the Government was the establishment of the independent, highly professional
Microfinance Units working under two foundations. With the assistance of the World Bank project team,
MFUs became a "dam" from the negative political interference and they have managed to carry out a
market-driven approach, at the same time acting as a commercial financier

Thirdly, the Government recognized its role not just as the financier of MCOs, but as an enabler and
creator of the appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the establishment of stable and efficient
institutions capable of providing financial services to target clients. Furthermore, both entity governments
contributed to creating a favorable business environment (tax treatment) and macroeconomic stability for
development of microfinance in the country.

7. Focusing on one thing (sustainable microcredit for low income clients) and doing that properly is
critical to success, (but savings is still a challenge).

It took all the project resources and the technical expertise of the MFUs, Bank, local and international
experts and of course MCOs, to achieve the carefully defined project goals. It was essential to have such a
laser focus to be sure to achieve the objectives. Even though MCOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not
allowed to capture savings, the sector has grown very fast over the past years because microcredit
organizations were able to attract other sources of loan fund financing, as mentioned above.

In fact, because of the history of the banking sector in BiH there is a much bigger issue before the provision
of savings services for low income clients can be directly addressed. That is the lack of trust in formal
financial institutions as a result of the collapse of the state owned banking sector before/during/after war.
Thousands of people lost millions of KM in savings. i.e. banks and do not put their savings on the bank's
accounts. As a result, only 26% of Bosnians have bank accounts.

According to the existing "Law on microcredit organizations", adopted in 2000 (FBiH)/2001 (RS),
microcredit organizations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not allowed to capture savings. They are legally
registered as not-for-profit, credit only financial institutions. Primary sources of financing are commercial
or subsidized loans, provided by local and international banks and donors, and equity. Moreover the new
law on microcredit organizations will not permit them to take savings, too. However, the recent CGAP
Savings Assessment of BiH found that there are "no legal obstacles that prevent an MCO from either
transforming into a bank, or from pursuing other options such as partnering with banks as deposit
collection agents. While there are specific institutional obstacles that different MCOs may face in
implementing either of the above arrangements, such as funding strict requirements for systems or


                                                      - 29 -

infrastructure required by the banking law, the legal framework itself is not as prohibitive as it seems."
This conclusion shows that there are opportunities for the sector to provide savings services if it can be
creative.
Source:www.microfinancegateway.org/resource_centers/savings/cgapsavings1/_assessments/_bosnia)

8. Ensuring that microcredit operations continue in BiH should not be taken for granted

An important lesson is that nothing should be taken for granted about the continued development of the
sector.

Future fund management: It is necessary to ensure that loan fund financing, provided to the microcredit
organizations under the project, permanently remains in the microfinance sector. Microfinance Units,
operating under the umbrella of DEF and FSD, have developed respective capacity and should continue to
manage loan funds in future.

Legal and regulatory framework: Work on drafting the new Law on microfinance in Bosnia and
Herzegovina is still not fully finished. This law is a key factor for the future development of the sector. It
must allow microcredit organizations to transform into the for-profit institutions and to broaden range of
it's' services to the clients.

Future of the sector

The World Bank will not provide any future financing to the microcredit organizations in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Hopefully the legislation for microfinance in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be adopted by June
30, 2006. This is the key factor for the future of the sector. The new law will enable microcredit
organizations to transform into for-profit institutions and attract financing from a greater diversity of
commercial sources as well as equity investments.

Some smaller organizations have already merged or were taken over by larger and stronger institutions
during the life of the project. Most likely similar trends will continue in the future, too and further
consolidation of the sector will take place during next 3-5 years.

Microcredit organizations will continue to grow and to serve more and more low-income clients and look
for creative ways to provide a broader range of financial services to their clients and in time there is no
doubt that with the dynamism of the sector it will find ways to ensure clients have safe and convenient ways
to save their money and protect their assets.




                                                     - 30 -

    Additional Annex 9. Performance Indicators of Partner MCOs: Comparative Analysis
    (2002 - June 2005)

                                                BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                     LOCAL INITIATIVES (Microfinance) PROJECT II
                             Performance Indicators of partner Microcredit Organizations (MCOs)
                                           Comparative Analysis (2002 - June 2005)


                                                           BENEFIT                                         EKI
Outreach and Institutional Indicators      2002         2003       2004     June '05     2002       2003       2004     June '05
No. of active clients                      3,117        4,906      6,498      7,915      8,999      13,550     18,129     21,276
No. of staff                                36.5         45.5        50         51         86         102        114        137
No. of branch offices                        2             4         23         23          8          8         31         32

Portfolio Indicators/Ratios
Total loan portfolio outstanding          7,021,367    9,000,158  11,364,633 14,368,234 22,068,945 29,803,200 35,123,944 44,852,965

Loan loss reserve ratio                    2.00%        2.00%      2.00%      2.10%      2.10%      2.20%      2.20%      2.10%
Portfolio at risk (> 30 days)              0.00%        0.00%      0.00%      0.00%      0.20%      0.30%      0.30%      0.30%
% write-offs                               0.00%        0.00%      0.00%      0.20%      0.33%      0.30%      0.40%      0.50%

Profitability Ratios
Adjusted Return on assets                  4.46%        -1.10%     2.20%      3.70%     -1.70%     -0.40%      1.60%      0.80%
Adjusted Return on equity                 13.46%        -3.09%     6.40%     12.00%     -11.50%    -1.80%      6.70%      3.30%
Yield on portfolio                        32.69%       25.16%      22.60%    23.60%     22.50%     21.50%     22.20%     21.40%
Operational self-sufficiency              145.29%      108.71%    125.40%    137.30%    141.00%    148.00%    148.00%    141.90%
Financial self-sufficiency                116.61%      95.46%     111.00%    119.80%    90.20%     96.10%     105.70%    102.60%

Efficiency Ratios
Operating costs ratio                     22.50%       23.14%      19.20%    17.30%     16.00%     15.60%     15.50%     15.40%
# of active clients/credit officer          156           175        217        273        205        256        292        284
Gross portfolio outstanding/cr.officer    351,068      321,434     378,821   495,456    501,567    562,325    566,515    598,040

Financial Structure
Gross portfolio outstanding/tot.assets    97.28%       94.29%      93.20%    94.20%     95.60%     92.40%     91.30%     93.70%
Cash and bank accounts/total assets        0.77%        3.52%      5.00%      1.10%      4.30%      5.40%      4.30%      2.20%
Total equity/total earning assets         38.68%       38.24%      33.10%    31.30%     15.40%     22.10%     25.10%     24.70%


* the number includes both branch offices and satelite offices.




                                                                - 31 -

                                                      BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                           LOCAL INITIATIVES (Microfinance) PROJECT II
                                  Performance Indicators of partner Microcredit Organizations (MCOs)
                                                  Comparative Analysis (2002 - June 2005)
                                     MI BOSPO                           MIKROFIN                      LOK Mikro
Outreach and                2002    2003    2004     June       2002   2003    2004   June   2002   2003    2004    June
Institutional Indicators                              '05                              '05                           '05
No. of active clients       5,499   7,162   8,467   11,981      5,633  7,426   12,446 17,358 3,580  3,834    4,697  5,822
No. of staff                 37      39      43        59        60      80      89    103     48     49      46      57
No. of branch offices         6       8       9        13         5      5       22     23     14     14      15      16

Portfolio
Indicators/Ratios
Total loan portfolio        8,186   11,023  12,144   19,765     17,830  28,463 37,417 49,733  9,109  10,439  13,428 18,872

outstanding ('000 KM)
Loan loss reserve ratio    1.20%   1.30%   1.50%     1.30%     2.00%   2.05%   2.10%  2.20%  3.00%  2.70%   1.90%   2.10%
Portfolio at risk (> 30    0.20%   0.10%   0.40%     0.30%     0.03%   0.16%   0.10%  0.30%  0.66%  0.70%   0.60%   1.10%
days)
% write-offs               1.40%   0.80%   1.50%     1.10%     0.06%   0.01%   0.00%  0.00%  1.30%  0.80%   0.20%   0.30%

Profitability Ratios
Adjusted Return on         2.40%   4.60%   4.70%     4.90%     3.30%   6.94%   7.00%  5.20%  1.40%  -2.90%  1.80%   1.10%
Adjusted Return on
assets                     5.80%   11.80%  11.90% 13.50% 10.70% 17.07% 17.30% 14.30% 6.90% -15.20% 10.00% 8.30%
Yield on portfolio
equity                     30.80% 29.80%   30.30% 27.30% 27.87% 28.52% 21.50% 20.90% 31.40% 32.60% 31.10% 34.60%
Operational self-          136.60% 143.30% 140.30% 134.60% 154.47% 160.76% 169.30% 156.10% 87.00% 103.50% 119.70% 111.60%
sufficiency
Financial self-sufficiency 106.40% 115.70% 120.50% 118.70% 114.56% 135.09% 140.80% 133.00% 74.60% 88.40% 106.10% 102.70%

Efficiency Ratios
Operating costs ratio      23.00% 22.70%   22.40% 22.20% 18.04% 17.74% 13.60% 13.70% 36.10% 32.50% 27.60% 31.30%
# of active clients/credit  250     326     326       333       161     149     218    252    143    153     188     182
officer
Gross portfolio            372,081 501,064 467,085 549,023 509,438 569,259 656,447 720,772    364   417,578 537,111 589,744
outst./cr.officer (KM)

Financial Structure
Gross portfolio            82.20% 83.70%   79.60% 88.50% 96.04% 96.17% 94.60% 95.80% 77.50% 74.20% 76.20% 79.80%
outstanding/tot.assets
Cash and bank              15.50% 12.30%   15.80%    6.90%     0.94%   0.31%   3.30%  2.50%  1.60%  2.20%   1.60%   0.90%
accounts/total assets
Total equity/total earning 41.10% 40.20%   41.80% 34.80% 36.97% 43.92% 40.50% 3.17% 21.70% 22.40% 21.30% 14.56%
assets

     * the number includes both branch offices and satelite offices.




                                                            - 32 -

                                                                  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                                     LOCAL INITIATIVES (Microfinance) PROJECT II
                                         Performance Indicators of partner Microcredit Organizations (MCOs)
                                                             Comparative Analysis (2002 - June 2005)

                                      PARTNER                                  SINERGIJA                                   SUNRISE

Outreachand
InstitutionalIndicators 2002       2003       2004     June'05     2002      2003       2004     June'05     2002       2003       2004     June'05
No.ofactiveclients      7,139     11,935     18,004     20,452      1,758     2,972     3,221      3,276      4,560     7,256      9,474     11,215
No.ofstaff                76         93        124        124         25        33        33         38         50        69         82         89
No.ofbranchoffices        21         26         33         35         3         3         12         12         16        22         29         30

Portfolio
Indicators/Ratios
Totalloanportfolio
outstanding(KM)        17,894,075 23,725,958 38,253,208 49,834,026 6,159,990 8,957,858 10,739,917 13,383,525 9,964,062 13,062,798 16,975,777 20,819,181
Loanlossreserveratio    2.30%      2.63%      2.70%      3.90%     2.00%     2.00%      2.00%      1.90%     3.40%      3.20%      3.00%      3.00%
Portfolioatrisk(>30     0.30%      0.58%      0.60%      3.00%     0.03%     0.24%      0.10%      0.20%     1.50%      1.30%      1.20%      1.10%
%write-offs             0.50%      0.23%      0.30%      0.70%     0.02%     0.04%      0.00%      0.00%     1.10%      1.60%      1.10%      1.10%

ProfitabilityRatios
AdjustedReturnon        0.40%      2.76%      2.90%     -0.70%     -5.00%    -0.97%     1.90%      1.60%     0.20%      1.50%      3.40%      2.60%
AdjustedReturnon        1.10%      8.24%      8.30%     -2.30%    -20.29%    -3.97%     7.30%      5.80%     0.50%      4.30%      9.40%      7.60%
Yieldonportfolio       27.40%     27.20%     21.70%     23.20%     29.49%    26.48%    22.70%     21.00%     31.60%    31.70%     31.70%     30.20%
Operationalself-       149.50% 156.20% 141.50% 111.20% 111.93% 127.28% 127.40% 123.80% 126.00% 127.20% 126.80% 123.80%
Financialself-
sufficiency            100.90% 110.80% 111.80%          95.10%     80.71%    95.80%    104.90% 104.90% 100.70% 105.20% 112.50% 109.90%

EfficiencyRatios
Operatingcostsratio    18.60%     18.67%     17.80%     21.50%     26.35%    20.81%    18.40%     17.00%     25.50%    27.30%     26.40%     24.40%
#ofactiveclients/credit  152         193       214        238        117       149        179       137        157        151       179         193
Grossportfolio
outst./cr.officer(KM)  380,725    382,677    455,395    579,465    410,666   447,893   596,662    557,647    343,588   281,371    320,298    358,951

FinancialStructure
Grossportfolio
outstanding/tot.assets 91.70%     89.40%     92.50%     91.60%     66.97%    86.14%    87.90%     89.90%     86.30%    91.60%     91.60%     92.40%
Cashandbank             1.90%      3.00%      2.70%      4.70%     11.41%    3.91%      3.10%      2.80%     6.00%      2.80%      2.90%      3.10%
Totalequity/total
earningassets          36.60%     41.80%     35.90%      6.27%     30.26%    27.03%    29.70%      7.82%     37.60%    40.70%     37.30%      5.04%




                                                                       - 33 -

                                                 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                       LOCAL INITIATIVES (Microfinance) PROJECT II
                                                      Results as of June 30, 2005


                                                                 Current Month                              Cumulative Total
                                                        No.       Amount (KM)           %*           No.       Amount (KM)           %*
Loans disbursed to date                                9,173        31,381,815                     380,051      1,239,887,970
Average loan size disbursed                                            3,421                                        3,262
Active clients/Portfolio outstanding                                                                98,852       230,438,638
First time borrowers                                   4,699        10,526,093        51.2%        198,033       457,517,326       52.1%

Portfolio at Risk (over 30 days past due)                                                                         2,271,445        0.99%

Male borrowers                                         4,615        17,344,328        50.3%        192,142       708,205,907       50.6%
Female borrowers                                       4,558        14,037,487        49.7%        187,909       531,682,062       49.4%

No. of loans for services                              3,243         9,651,562        35.4%        115,379       379,600,545       30.4%
No. of loans for trade                                 1,888         8,389,397        20.6%        124,596       442,472,694       32.8%
No. of loans for agriculture                           3,683        11,156,158        40.2%        119,129       312,848,670       31.3%
No. of loans for small-scale production                  359         2,184,698        3.9%          16,978       104,966,060       4.5%

Estimated employment impact**                                                                      212,532

*Percentages are calculated based on the number of loans disbursed and not the amount disbursed.
** Estimated employment impact is based on finding from the impact assessment that clients' businesses on average employ 2.15 people.




                                                                    - 34 -

Additional Annex 10. Sources of Financing of Partner MCOs (in KM) as of June 30, 2005

                                         LOCAL INITIATIVES (MICROFINANCE) PROJECT II
                           SOURCES OF FINANCING FOR PARTNER MICROCREDIT ORGANIZATIONS
                                                         Data as of June 30, 2005
                                                                                                                             in KM

                                   BENEFIT       EKI     LOKmicro   MI-BOSPO MIKROFIN     PARTNER    SINERGIJA
                                                                                                       plus      SUNRISE     TOTAL

    SUBSIDIZED LOANS               6,600,276 28,458,718 9,280,537    7,875,414 12,567,951 22,314,850  7,979,739 10,833,980  105,911,465

    Foundation for Sustainable
    Development - LIP II                    0   5,717,920  7,360,735  7,220,406         0   8,509,961          0  7,692,164 36,501,186

    RS Development and
    Employment Foundation - LIP      5,593,674    750,000         0          0   6,037,647         0   5,666,040         0  18,047,361
    II
    WORLD VISION                            0 14,475,537          0          0          0          0           0         0  14,475,537

    KfW - EU funds                          0   3,109,770         0    452,188   3,042,411   782,332   2,147,032  1,271,094 10,804,827

    USAID LAMP                              0   3,152,076         0          0   3,112,893  3,245,114          0         0    9,510,083

    MERCY CORPS                             0          0          0          0          0   9,277,443          0         0    9,277,443

    Small Scale Commercial
    Agriculture Development           997,473     586,749         0          0          0          0           0    880,124   2,464,346

    USAID BF - Business Finance
    Project
                                            0     666,666         0          0     375,000   500,000     166,667         0    1,708,333

    Investment Bank of the
    Federation BiH                          0          0   1,171,457         0          0          0           0         0    1,171,457

    EU Fund - Funds
    implemented through LIP I               0          0          0          0          0          0           0    990,598    990,598

    UNHCR - Funds
    implemented through LIP I               0          0     748,345         0          0          0           0         0     748,345

    Deutsche Bank                           0          0          0    202,820          0          0           0         0     202,820

    JICA - OIN                          9,129          0          0          0          0          0           0         0       9,129

    COMMERCIAL LOANS               3,933,445 7,048,903 8,310,881 14,445,628 20,571,716 15,508,170     2,519,048  4,298,259  76,636,050

    Raiffeissen Bank BiH d.d.
    Sarajevo                         2,990,909  3,158,841  2,000,000  1,752,409  3,916,667  3,820,000          0  3,500,000 21,138,826

    Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d.
    Mostar/ Hypo Alpe-Adria-          942,536          0          0          0   5,555,713  1,000,000  1,932,446    500,000   9,930,695

    HVB Central Profit banka d.d.
    Bank a.d. Banja Luka
    Sarajevo                                0   1,000,000    988,408   300,000          0          0           0         0    2,288,408

    UPI banka d.d. Sarajevo                 0          0   1,500,000         0          0          0           0         0    1,500,000

    CBS Bank d.d. Sarajevo                  0          0     500,000         0          0    600,000           0         0    1,100,000

    ABS banka d.d. Sarajevo                 0          0     820,000         0          0          0           0         0     820,000

    Tuzlanska banka d.d. Tuzla              0          0          0    700,000          0          0           0         0     700,000

    UniCredit Zagrebacka banka
    d.d. Mostar                             0          0     491,666         0          0          0           0         0     491,666

    Blue Orchard                            0     977,915         0          0          0   5,427,427          0         0    6,405,342

    NOVIB                                   0          0          0          0   2,787,058  1,955,830          0         0    4,742,888

    TRIODOS                                 0          0          0    782,332   3,911,660         0           0         0    4,693,992

    DEXIA                                   0          0          0          0   4,400,618         0           0         0    4,400,618

    OikoCredit                              0          0          0   1,173,498         0   1,955,830    586,602         0    3,715,930

    MicroVest                               0   1,173,498         0    733,436          0    749,083           0         0    2,656,017

    Triglav Insurance Company
    Sarajevo                                0          0   2,000,000         0          0          0           0         0    2,000,000

    Global Microfinance Facility -
    Cyrano Management                       0          0          0   1,369,081         0          0           0         0    1,369,081

    Other                                   0    738,649     10,807    227,421          0          0          0   298,259     1,275,136

    Own funds (grants and
    retained earnings)             4,413,496 11,306,517 3,039,363    7,407,451 18,224,738 15,675,488  4,385,755  7,388,353  71,841,161

    TOTAL                          14,947,217 46,814,138 20,630,781 29,728,493 51,364,405 53,498,508 14,884,542 22,520,592  254,388,676




                                                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

