Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6987-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 7, 1988
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a reticted ditribuon and may be used by recpient ody In the perfonnne of
thei officia duties Its contens may not otewise be disosed wihout Wodd Bank authorizion



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rates US$1.00 m Uganda Shillings (USh) 60.00
USh 1.00 - US$0.0167
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CALENDAR
KSW Fiscal Year: May 1 . April 30
IDA Fiscal Year:  July 1    June 30
!'roject Year   s May 1 - April 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
AfDF      -  African Development Fund
AGSEC     -  Agricultural Secretariat of the Bank of Uganda
AWP       -  Annual Work Program
BUA       -  AfDB Units of Account
EAHL      -   East Africa Holdings Ltd.
ERP       -  Economic Recovery Program
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FUA       -  AfDF Units of Account
FBL       -   Food and Beverage std.
FRR       -   Financial Rate of Return
ha        -   Hectare
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IFC       -   International Finance Corporation
JVA       -   Joint Venture Agreement (1985)
KSW       -   Kakira Sugar Works (1985) Ltd.
MOI       -  Ministry of Industry and Technology
MSL       -  Madhvani Sugar Limited
MSW       -  Madhvani Sugar Works
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
SA        -   Subsidiary Agreement
SCU       -   Sugar Corporation of Uganda, Lugazi
SDR       -   Special Drawing Rights
SIU       -   Sugar Industry Unit
tcd       -   tons of cane per day
tcy       -   tons of cane per year
tsy       -   tons of sugar per year
UDB       -  Uganda Development Bank



FOP, OmCiAL US ONLY
SUA REHARTILITATION PROJECT
CREDIS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BorrhoU r             Government of Uganda
Beneficiareest        Kakira Sugar Works (1985) Ltd (RSW) and Ministry of
Industry and Technology (MOT)
Amounts               SDR 18.9 million (US$24.9 million equivalent)
Tess                  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Rlendina Terms:       US$24.6 million to KSW at an interest rate of 8.7S,
repayable over 15 years including a 5 year moratorium
on interest and capital payments with KSW to bear the
foreign exchange risk. The balance of US$0.3 million
through budgetary transfer to MOI.
CofinancSuitt         AfDB BUSA 6.86 million (US$8.7 million equivalent)
AfD? VUA 7.97 million (US$9.4 million equivalent)
Proisect Descrintion:
Cbiectives:           The project would, over a six year period: (1)
restore RSW's sugar production from present zero
level to historical levels (85,000 tsy) and save
foreign exchange used for imports; (ii) strengthen
MOI's management of the sugar sector; and (iii)
provide a mechanism for liberalizing sugar marketing
and pricing.
Comnonents:           The project would restore efficient agricultural and
processing operations at KSW through (i) the physical
rehabilitation of lands, factory and associated
infrastructure by providing machinery, equipment,
civil works and transport; and (ii) technical
assistance to strengthen KSW management and staff.
Agricultural development would include the
rehabilitation of the irrigation system and the re-
establishment of an outgrower production scheme to
augment cane supplies to the factory. The project
would also, through technical assistance and
logistics, strengthen MOI's role in monitoring the
performance of the sugar industry and advising the
Government on industry policy matters.
Benefits and Riskss   The main benefit would be net annual foreign exchange
savings of approximately US$33 million by 1993.  The
project would also create employment opportunities
for 4,300 persons and improve incomes and living
conditions for about 1,400 outgrowers. The success
of a joint venture in KSW would improve the climate
for private investment in Uganda and thereby assist
Government efforts to rebuild the economy. Failure
by the Government to provide foreign exchange
required for import of spares and inputs would
|Ths documont has a stid distribution and may be used by recipients only in th perormanco
of thok offic dutis. Its contents may not othrwise be duclosed without World ank authorzatin.



- ii -
threaten sustainability of ISV operations. Under the
Economic Recovery Credit IDA will obtain Government
consent to include the sugar industry among priority
sectors covered by the Open General Licensing System.
Delays in replacing expatriate staff by Ugandan
nationals would raise operating costs and foreign
exchange remittances. ISW's program for training
Ugandans for managerial and key technical positions
would be monitored through Annual Work Programs.
Disagreements between Government and the minority
shareholder in XSW could threaten sustainability of
operations; the Joint Venture Agreement is designed
to minimiae this risk.
Estimated Cost
Comoonent a/                            Local      Foreian     Total
_--     -( (us$ M)…---
Rehabilitation of KSW:
Agricultural Development             0.3        10.5       10.8
Factory Rehabilitation               1.3        16.9       18.2
Infrastructure Development           1.0         5.2        6.3
Staffing and Training                1.2         7.6        8.8
Subtotal                             3.9        40.1       44.0
Support to NOI                           -           0.3        0.3
Total Baseline Cost (excl.
Incr. Working Capital)               3.9        40.4       44.3
Physical Contingencies                   0.2         2.5        2.7
Price Contingencies                      2.1         1.3        3.5
Total Cost (excl. Working Capital)       6.2        44.3       50.5
KSW Working Capital (Incr.)              8.5         2.5       11.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      14.7        46.8       61.5
m_          -
a/ Numbers may not add due to rounding.
Financing Plan
IDA (new)                                1.9        23.0       24.9
IDA (ongoing)                                        7.4        7.4
AfDJ                                       .1        8.6         8.7
AfDF                                     1.6         7.8         9.4
ISw                                     11.1        -          11.1
TOTAL                                   14.7        46.8       61.5
_          *OOD        *m--
Estimated Disbursementa (AfDB/AfDF within brackets, US$ M)
IDA PY                   89        90         91        92        93         94
Annual                 8.4       9.9        3.4       1.5       1.3         .4
(6.0)     (5.9)     (3.5)      (1.7)      (.9)       (.1)
Cumulative             8.4      18.3      21.7       23.2      24.5       24.9
(6.0)    (11.9)    (15.4)    (17.1)    (18.0)    (18.1)
Economic Rate of Returns   281
MkIos                       IBD No. 18540 R



UGANDA
SUGAR REHABIJiTATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY ........................... .        i
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                     1
A.  Recent Economic Developments                                1
B.  The Sugar Subsector ........                                3
C.  Role of Bank Group               ........                   4
D.  Project Origin and Rationale ......................         5
II.    PROJECT BACKGROUND  6o ....o..........o.*..o..o....o             6
A.  Historical Developments and Company Ownership .....         6
i.  Project Area and Natural Resources ................         7
C.  The Rehabilitation Plan ...........................         9
D.  Organization, Management and Staff Resources ......        13
E.  KSW Financial Structure and Performance ...........        13
III.    THE PROJECT                                                     14
A.  Objectives and Main Features                               14
B.  Project Components ........................                15
C.  Project Costs .....................................        18
D.  Financing .........................................        19
E. Procurement .......   ..21
F. Disbursements   ...... .......                              23
G.  Accounts and Audits                .....                   25
H.  Environmental Impact ....      .25
IV.     MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                                 26
A.  Ministry of Industry and Technology ...............        26
B.  KSW Organization and Management ...........,.......        27
C.  Project Implementation ............................        28
V.    PRODUCTION MARKETING AND PRICING......................         31
A.  Sugar Production ..................................        31
B.  Domestic Demand and Production Capacity ...........        34
C.  Marketing and Pricing ..35
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                             38
A.  KSW Financial Reconstruction ......................        38
B.  Projected Operating ;nd Financial Results .........        40
C.  Outgrower Returns .....                                    43
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal/appraisal mission
in May 1985, comprising A. Raza (World Bank) and G. Bacs, B. Idehara and
G. Silcock and S. Janakiram (Consultants), and an appraisal mission in May,
1987 comprising L. Vidaeus, K. Loganathan and A. Zerabruk (World Bank).
Ms. C. Jones (World Bank) contributed to the editing of the report.



- iv -
Paae No.
VII.    JUSTIFICATION.BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................      43
A.  Justification and Benefits .......................      43
B. Economic Analysis .................. .. ............     44
C.  Project Risks ........................... .........     45
VIll.   ASSURAV!CES AND RECO~MMNDATIONS ......................................  46
List of Tables
Table 3.1   - Project Cost Summary...........................        19
Table 3.2   - Project Financing Plan .........................       20
Table 3.3   - Procurement Schedule ...........................       22
Table 3.4   - Allocation of IDA Credit and Disbursement
Arrangements .Z........               .......       24
Table 5.1   -  Summary of KSW's Agricultural Development Program    32
Table 5.2   - Estimated Average Cost of Production at
Full Development .............................      34
Table 5.3   -  Projected Domestic Sugar Production ............      34
Table 6.1   -  Summary of Income and Sources/Application
of  Funds  ........    *     **....     ....41
Annexes
Annex 1     - Project Cost and Financing Tables
Annex 2     - Agricultural Development Program
Annex 3     -  Financial Analysis
Annex 4     - Economic Analysis
Annex 5     -  Projected Domestic Sugar Demand
Annex 6     - Project Implementation Unit
Annex 7     - KSW Manpower Requirements
Annex 8     - Annual Work Program
Annex 9     - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 10    - Documents in Project File
Annex 11    - Documents in Project File
IBRD Map No. 18540-R



UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Recent Economic Developments
1.01     At independence in 1962, Uganda's economy was strong with a
diversified export base, a small industrial sector providing export and
consumer goods and an established infrastructure. A steady annual growth in
GDP of 2.0 percent was achieved up to 1970. As military rule was
introduced in 1971, most industries were expropriated or nationalized and
began declining rapidly under inept management. With the market economy
deteriorating and skilled manpower and labor emigrating under political
repression, agriculture reverted to subsistence and the supply of
agricultural crops declined. Following the Liberation War of 1979, the
unsettled political situation and administrative inertia delayed efforts to
reconstruct the devastated economy. A medium-term Recovery and
Rehabilitation Program was formulated based on a strategy to float the
Uganda shilling (USh), introduce realistic producer prices, encourage
private investment and return nationalized industry to private ownership.
Production of cash crops increased and rehabilitation of crop processing
plants got under way. The fragility of the Recovery Program was exposed as
the civil war intensified. Following the coup of July 1985 the economic
situation worsened rapidly, foreign exchange earnings declined, the
Government restricted allocation of foreign exchange for general imports
and spare parts, and the industrial sector virtually came to a halt.
1.02     As the National Resistance Movement took power in January 1986,
the country's infrastructure had been extensively destroyed, and the
foreign exchange reserves were drained. During its first year in office,
the Government got the security situation under control, began restoring
discipline and order in the management of public affairs and initiated an
emergency relief antd rehabilitation program. The lack of foreign exchange
was, however, a major constraint and after a brief return to a dual
exchange rate between June and August 1986, the exchange rate was unified
at USh 1,400 per US$. Inflation increased as output remained constrained
by lack of imported inputs, and the budget deficit was monetized. By
December 1986, the annual inflation rate had reached 300 percent and the
parallel market rate for foreign exchange had risen to a level of six to
eight times that of the official rate. As economic conditions rapidly
worsened throughout 1986, the Government realized that a major reversal in
economic policies was required and broad consensus within Government
emerged on the direction of reform.
1.03     Economic Recovery Program.1/  The objective of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), which was formally launched on May 15, 1987, are
to: (a) restore price stability and a sustainable balance of payments
position; (b) substantially Improve capacity utilization in industrial and
agro-processing units; (c) rehabilitate existing infrastructure and
1I   Details in President's Report on IDA Credit and African Facility
Credit for an Economic Recovery Program, dated August 19, 1987.



- 2 -
installed capacity; (d) restore producer incentives through appropriate
price policies and the use of markets; (e) restore discipline,
accountability and efficiency in the public sector; and (f) improve public
sector resource mobilization and allocation.
1.04     As important first steps towards these goals, the Government hass
(a) implemented a currency reform under which one new USh would be
equivalent to 100 old USh; (b) devalued the USh from USh (old) 1,400 to USh
(new) 60 per US$; (c) introduced a currency conversion tax; (d) immediately
increased prices of petroleum products to establish appropriate parity with
neighboring countries; and (f) doubled the civil service wage bill
effective June 1, 1987. In addition to these specific actions, the
Government has announced it will set up an Open General Licensing COGL)
system for foreign exchange allocations and a credit facility for local
cover for imports, and pursue fiscal and monetary policies consistent with
the objective of stabilization.
Aaricultural Sector Obiectives and Constraints
1.05     Uganda's economy is essentially agrarian with 90 percent of the
population of 14.7 M depending on agriculture for its livelihood.
Agriculture accounts for half of GDP and 99 percent of merchandise exports,
the latter now consisting almost entirely of coffee. Food crops dominate
in the traditional settled smallholder agriculture. Yields are reasonable
considering the low input and low output technology and the country is
self-sufficient in food production except for wheat, sugar and cooking
oils.
1.06     The major objectives for sectoral development are to increase
foreign exchange earnings and rural incomes bys (a) rehabilitating the
traditional export subsector (coffee, tea, tobacco and cotton); (b)
diversifying the agricultural base, including non-traditional exports,
agro-industry and import substitution of food crops; and (c) increasing
productivity of small farmers. The accomplishment of these objectives has
over the past decade been constrained bys (a) low producer incentives for
export crops; (b) dilapidated processing facilities, roads, etc. and
shortage of foreign exchange for financing importation of equipment and
inputs; (c) financial instability discouraging private investment; and (d)
weak institutions. These constraints and others were examined in depth by
Agricultural Task Forces set up by the Government under the auspices of the
Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) with financial support from the Second
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1464-UG). Recommendations for actions to
address Identified issues have been presented to and accepted by APC and
cover a range of areas including pricing and marketing, agricultural
credit, manpover and training, land tenure and agricultural research. Some
actions, notably the increase in producer prices for export crops, have
already been incorporated in ERP.
1.07     The macro-economic policies announced by the Government,
particularly the establishment of a realistic exchange rate, will
substantially improve the policy environment for the industrial sector.
Emphasis is given to provisions of intermediate inputs to the sector
because many plants are operating at extremely low capacity as a result of
a lack of imports and spare parts. As additional foreign exchange and



- 3 -
local credit becomes increasingly available these plants are expected to
improve capacity utilization and produce goods now in short supply. The
creation of an open general licens:.ng system for channelling imports should
improve the efficiency in the allocation of foreign exchange.
B. The Sugar Subsector
The Industry and the Government Policy
1.08     Climatic conditions in Uganda are highly favorable for rainfed
sugarcane production. Thus, sugar processing developed as the largest
industry in Uganda before 1972, and performed at high levels of efficiency.
Production peaked at 154,100 tons in 1970 but fell sharply following the
disruption in 1972, and declined to less than 1,000 tons in 1985.
Simultaneously, imports increased, with official imports estimated at
46,000 tons in 1986. Before the collapse of the industry in the mid
1970's, sugar consumption in Uganda was around 120,000 tons or 14 kg per
capita per year, at the time one of the highest per capita consumption
figures in Sub-Saharan Africa. Over the last ten years the availability of
sugar on the domestic market has been restricted by the access of importers
to foreign exchange. Thus, total annual supplies available ranged between
5,000 and 50,000 tons during the period 1980 - 1982, equivalent to a per
capita consumption of .5 - 4.4 kg as compared to 17 - 19 kg ini neighboring
countries such as Kenya and Sudan and 6 kg in Tanzania.
1.09     During the first half of the 1980's, when domestic sugar
production had dropped to insignificant levels, importation and trade in
sugar was free and prices were determined by free market forces, resulting
in substantial fluctuatiot ia response to sharp variations in supply. In
July 1986, the Government intevvened with imports centralized through the
Foods and Beverages, Ltd. (a parastatal under the Ministry of Commerce),
which arranges for interaal diitribution through appointed agents. Maximum
wholesale and retail prices were introduced to hold prices to consumers
down at a time of severe shortage of sugar. Under the Policy Framework
Paper, which was negotiated with the Bank/IMF in March 1987 and underpins
ERP, the Government is committed to a gradual liberalization of pricing and
marketing of sugar as the supply situation improves.
1.10     The Ministry of Industry and Technology (MOI) is responsible for
developing and implementing subsector objectives, plans and policies and
for monitoring the performance of the sugar industry. It is ill equipped
to carry out these functions. Technical and analytical skills for analysis
and policy making need to be enhanced.
Industry Structure and Rehabilitation Plans
1.11     The industry consists of three main sugar complexes at Kakira
(east of Jinja), Lugazi (between Kampala and Jinja) and Kinyala (near
Masindi in western Uganda). The first two estates were developed and
managed by Uganda-Asian families, the Madhvani family and the Mehta family,
pioneer industrialists in East Africa. The Kinyala estate (fully
Government owned), although mostly complete was not properly developed and
has never produced a significant amount of sugarcane. The factory capacity
of the three complexes, as originally installed, totals 175,000 tons of



-4-
sugar a year (toy), (80,000 tsy at Kakira, 60,000 tsy at Lugazi and 35,000
tsy at Kinyala). Prior to the expropriation of the sugar estates and the
expulsion of Asians from Uganda in 1972, the Kakira and Lugazi complexes
produced at capacity making Uganda self-sufficient in sugar and allowing in
some years for significant levels of export. The subsequent decline in the
utilization of the production capacity of the industry was caused by
political instability, inept management and lack of foreign exchange and
local funds for operational and maintenance needs.
1.12     The Government of Milton Obote, which came into power in 1980,
invited the original owners of the Lugazi and Kakira estates back to form
joint ventures with the Government and to oversee the rehabilitation and
manage the operations of the two estates. In 1980, the Government and the
Mehta Group formed a joint venture establishing the Sugar Corporation of
Uganda, Limited (SCU) at Lugazi. Financing arrangement- for the
rehabilitation of SCU, were completed in 1984. Progress in implementation
of the rehabilitation works has been hampered by political instability,
deteriorating security conditions, weak management and cost increases, but
these problems have now been overcome, In 1983 the Government requested
IDA assistance from the rehabilitation of the Kakira complex. Finalization
of a rehabilitation program and agreeaent on financing arrangements to
reactivate sugar production at the Kakira complex were hindered by
unresolved ownership issues and conflicting interests within the Madhvani
Group. Events since the beginning of 1985 have paved the way for
rehabilitation of Kakira and the proposed project has been designed in
support thereof.
C. Role of Bank Group
Lendina Strategy
1.13     The Bank re-established relations with Uganda in 1979, and
operations resumed in 1981 when the Bank expanded its assistance for
recovery of the economy. The lending strategy continues to be based on
three elementst (a) urgent policy reform to restore macro-economic
stability; (b) rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure to
bring the economy back to a fully-functioning level; and (c) development-
oriented investments and structural reforms to address longer-term growth
objectives. Consultations early in 1987 between the Bank, the IMF and the
Government on macro-economic policy reform led to agreement on the policy
agenda of ERP. The reforms being implemented (para. 1.04) provide
necessary conditions for revival of the agricultural and agro-industrial
sectors, but they are not by themselves sufficient. The rehabilitation of
the traditional export subsector and the promotion of import substitution
also needs to be supported by viable sectoral investment programs and
appropriate reform of sectoral policies and institutions. The stage is
therefore set for IDA to expand its lending operations in the agricultural
and agro-industrial sectors while recognizing the need for such reform.
Related Bank Group Operations
1.14     Since 1980, 14 credits totalling US$ 324.6 H have assisted
rehabilitation of Uganda's infrastructure, production capacity and social
services. Most recently (September 1987) an IDA Economic Recovery Credit



-5-
(U8$ 65 M) and an African Facility Credit (US$ 24 M) were approved in
support of the Government's implementation of ERP. In addition, since
1955, Uganda has been the beneficiary of 11 loans from the Bank totalling
18$ 244.8 M for the development of communication services operated
regionally for the three partners states of the former East African
Community.
1.15     IDA assistance in the agricultural sector began with a small-
holder Tea Project in 1968 (Cr. 109-UG, US$ 3.4 M) and a smallholder
Tobacco Project (Cr. 212-UG, US$ 4 M). While the former project was
successfully implemented, the latter did not accomplish its objectives
because of defective management, economic decline and political
instability. A Beef Ranching Development project (Cr. 130-UG, US$ 3.4 M)
was equally adversely affected by the civil war in 1979. The three IDA
reconstruction credits during the early 1980's financed some imported
inputs and spare parts for the agricultural and agro-industrial subsectors.
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1328-UG, FY83, US$ 70 M)
provided foreign exchange support and credit facilities for importation of
key agricultural equipment and imports. As a result, rehabilitation of
coffee, tea, cotton and tobacco processing facilities is now under way and
should actively enhance the agricultural supply response sought under ERP.
The Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1539-UG, FY85, US$ 10 M) provides
inputs for farmers in seven districts in eastern and northeastern Uganda.
Implementation is now gathering momentum under improved security in the
project area.  The Forestry Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1824-UG, FY87, US$
13 M) extends support for increased production of woodfuel, wood products,
forest management and strengthening of the Forestry Department. The
Southwest Agricultural Rehabilitation Project was approved (Cr. 1869-UG,
US$ lOM) in January 1988. It will support food production and small farmer
development in four districts of the high potential Southwest Region.
1.16     The Bank Group's assistance to the sugar subsector commenced under
the IDA reconstruction credits as funds were passed on by the Government to
SCU and Madhvani Sugar Limited (para. 2.02) for financing of the
rehabilitation of their respective sugar complexes. IFC, in association
with other cofinanciers, in 1983 extended loans of US$ 8 M to SCU towards
rehabilitation financing. Funds from the Agricultural and Industrial
Rehabilitation Projects (Cr. 1328-UG azd Cr. 1248-UG) and the Second
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 143t-UG), totalling about US$ 9 M, have
been used either for preparation of or committed to financing parts of the
proposed Sugar Rehabilitation Project.
D. Project Origin and Rationale
1.17     In November 1983, the Government requested IDA to assist in the
rehabilitation of the Kakira and Kinyala sugar complexes. A project was
identified by an IDA mission in 1984. Funds under IDA Cr. 1328-UG were
used by the Government to prepare detailed investment proposals. A report
suitable for appraisal was submitted in February 1985. IDA decided at that
time that further consideration of the investment proposals for the Kinyala
Estate should be postponed considering its lower rate of return,
uncertainties with respect to the estate's cane yielding capacity, and the
projected ability of the Lugazi and Kakira estates to meet domestic sugar



- 6 -
demand by the early 1990'i. in March 1985, the Government and East African
Holdings, Ltd. (EMAL) concluded a Joint Venture Agreement which resolved
issues of ownership and management of the Kakira estate. Anticipating
progress in the completion of the financial structure of the company, IDA,
at Government's request, fielded a mission in April 1985 to pre-appraise
the proposed project to rehabilitate the Kakira estate. The completion of
appraisal was dependent on the Government and EAHL agreeing on a financial
reconstruction plan for the Xakira estate, to be acceptable also to IDA.
Negotiations on such a plan were delayed by the political turbulence
following the July 1985 military coup. The plan was finalized in February
1987 thus paving the way for completion of the project appraisal.
Throughout the course of project preparation, IDA has been closely
associated with Government efforts to resolve problems facing the Kakira
complex through an intensive dialogue supported by IDA financed studies and
pre-project activity.
1.18     Recent economic policy reforms have created a climate favorable to
investments in rehabilitating agro-industrial processing capacity and
restoration of the domestic sugar industry has been given high priority in
the Government's Economic Recovery Program. IDA support for this program
Is already under way. Assistance by IDA for the rehabilitation of the
Kakira Sugar Complex would represent a logical continuation of the
involvement of the Bank Group in the restoration of the sugar industry in
Uganda. Rehabilitation of this industry, including Kakira, is justified
because of the comparative advantage the industry enjoys as a result of its
natural protection from imports. Investments in rehabilitation capitalize
on large costs already sunk into the industry and would, through import
substitution, result in substantial net savings of foreign exchange.
1I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Historical Develorments and Com2anv Ownershin
2.01     The Kakira Sugar Complex (hereafter referred to as Kakira) was
conceived and developed by the Madhvani Group, between 1924 and 1970 under
the name Madhvani Sugar Works (MSW) Ltd. Suitable soils, favorable
climatic conditions and strong management made the company to flourish and
become profitable. The sugar factory, with a capacity of 3,000 tons of
cane per day (tcd) was supported by a nucleus estate of about 8,000,
hectare (ha) and an outgrower scheme. In 1970, Kakira produced 81,000 tons
of sugar (ts) and employed over 7,000 people. It had extensive housing and
infrastructure facilities and was the largest single industrial enterprise
in Uganda. MSW was fully nationalized in 1972 and members of the Madhvani
Group, along with many skilled personnel, were expelled from Uganda. As a
result of poor management and inadequate technical staff, most of the
assets suffered from lack of maintenance and vandalism and production fell
steadily to 16,000 ts by 1975 and 2,000 ts by 1980.
2.02     345W was originally owned over 99 percent by the East Africa
Holdings Ltd. (EAHL), a company registered and resident in Bermuda,
controlled by trusts for the five units of the Madhvani family. In early
1972 the Government acquired 49 percent of the shares in MSW, but later in
1972 the company was nationalized. It remained fully controlled by the



- 7 -
Government until 1979 when a new company, Madhvani Sugar Limited (MSL) was
formed to rehabilitate, operate and manage Kakira, with the Government
holding 51 percent of the shares and the remainder owned by only one of the
five units of the Madhvani family. Issues related to the ownership of
assets at Kakira and management problems resulted in the company facing
difficulties in obtaining working capital and failing to organize financing
for the rehabilitation of Kakira, and operations ceased altogether in 1984.
In 1982, the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act (1982) which
provided for the return of assets nationalized in 1972 to their formal
legal owners. All units of the Madhvani family in 1984 agreed that EAHL,
together with small shareholders in MSW and the Government, were the legal
owners of the Xakira assets and this resulted in the Government and EAHL
negotiating a Joint Venture Agreement establishing Kakira Sugar Works
(1985) Ltd.
Kakira Sugar Works(1985) Ltd. (KSW)
2.03     The Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) negotiated with EAHL in March
1985 provided for the transfer by the Government to KSW of specified assets
and liabilities of the sugar complex at Kakira. The ownership of shares
was distributed 60/40 between, on the one hand, EAHL and other small
shareholders of MSW and, on the other hand, the Government. The JVA
further provided for the appointment of Directors, management arrangements,
and most importantly for the conclusion of a set of Subsidiary Agreements
to cover (a) the settlement of amounts due to EAHL from the Gove-nment
related to Government's acquisition of shares in MSW in 1972; (b) financial
structuring of KSW; (c) dividend distribution policy of KSW; and (d)
remittance of repatriable profits by KSW. The Memorandum and Articles of
Association were registered and KSW was formally incorporated on May 15,
1985. Negotiations between the shareholders over the Subsidiary Agreements
experienced lengthy delays and frequent postponements due to the complexity
of the issues involved and the political instability in Uganda. Also, the
present Government when it came to power early in 1986 sought to acquire
majority shareholding in KSW. It was therefore not until February, 1987
that the Government and EAHL concluded ;n Amendment to the JVA and a
Subsidiary Agreement (SA) covering required areas. The JVA as amended
assigns 51 percent of the shares in KSW to the Government and 49 percent to
EMAL and small shareholders of MSW. The shift in majority shareholding was
acceptable to EAHL. Consequently, the Board of KSW is composed of five
directors appointed by the Govermment and four by EAHL, all of whom have
been duly appointed.
2.04     Before completion of project appraisal IDA obtained legal opinions
from the Attorney General/Minister of Justice on behalf of the Government
and from counsel of EMAL and KSU confirming that the above agreements (JVA,
Amendment to JVA, and SA) and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
KSU are legally valid.
B. Proiect Area and Natural Resources
Estate Area
2.05     Kakira is located (see map) approximately 18 km east of Jinja, and
about 100 km east of Kampala with frontage on Lake Victoria. The estate



-8-
comprises a gross area of 9,010 ha of gently rolling land. The estate is
traversed by the main East-West Highway and has a network of about 200 km
of private roads, mostly of graded laterite surface. It is serviced by the
main railway line along the southern boundary, and has its own airfield.
The estate railway system (for cane transport) consists of 98 km of fixed
tracks and 36 km of portable track. The soils are volcanic and quite
fertile.
Outarover Area
2.06     An outgrower area of about 7,500 ha is located in Jinja district
on the northeast edge of the estate. It is well serviced by murram roads
and motorable tracks. The main Kiunga road links this area to the estate
road network. Almost 150,000 tons of cane (tc) wnre sent to the Kakira
factory 'n 1970.  A soil survey has identified about 5,500 ha of land
suitable for cane. After deducting requirements for various other uses the
area available for cane has been assessed as 2700 ha. In addition, based
on RSW surveys about 1400 ha of land in neighboring Iganga district, east
of the factory (20 km radius) have been identified as suitable and
available for outgrower cane production. Land ownership is determined by
village chiefs and elders according to local practice. However, farmers
have full rights over the land and its use even though title documents do
not exist except in a few cases. The average farm size in about 3 ha.
Part of the area is still growing cane for processing in numerous jaggery
mills which have developed since 1972. Farmers are willing to plant cane
provided they are guaranteed market outlet.
Climate
2.07     Kakira has a tropical climate with moderate temperatures as the
area is situated at an altitude of 1,157 m and is influenced by Lake
Victoria. The average annual rainfall is reasonably well distributed, but
there are two distinct dry seasons from June to July and from December to
February. The average daily temperature is 270C, with a minimum of 170C at
night. This type of climate is conducive to good sugarcane growth under
rainfed conditions. It enables harvesting and factory operations to
continue throughout the year without much variation in the quality of cane.
Production and Yields
2.08     Kakira was most productive during the period 1960 to 1971, after
which production, for reasons discussed earlier, declined dramatically.
The average yield of the estate cane during 1961-71 was 157 t/ha at an
average cane age of 19.7 months (21 months for plant cane and 19 months
each for two following ratoons). About a third of the area was under
overhead irrigation. The irrigated cane yields averaged 172 tonlha
compared to 140 tlha for rainfed cane. Husbandry and management standards
were high.  The average yield of cane from aided outgrowers was 118 t/ha
from plant cane and three ratoons. There is therefore little doubt
regarding Kakira's agricultural potential. At 85 percent of the average
yields achieved during the 19609 under rainfed conditions, the estate
should produce at steady state around 550,000 tons of cane per year (tcy).
The factory, once rehabilitated, would have an annual capacity of 810,000
tcy. The incremental cane requirements could either be obtained through



rehabilitation of the existing irrigation system, by attracting sufficient
outgrowers to produce the balance of the cane on lands available near the
estate, or a combination of both.
C. 'The Rehabilitation Plan
General
2.09     The task to restore sugar production at Kakira involves the
rehabilitation of a factory which has long since ceased operating due to
physical deterioration, the recovery and development of twc-thirds of the
estate that has reverted to bush, and the development of a scheme to
support outgrower cane production. Roads, housing, services, uti'ities and
social infrastructure need to be re-developed to support estate and factory
operations, enable KSW to attract qualified staff, retain its labor force
and to support a resident population of about 20,000 people. KSW,
anticipating external financing towards rehabilitation, has embarked on an
immediate program to recover, plant and cultivate cane fields, rehabilitate
some roads and finalize the program for the rehabilitation of Kakira. The
efforts have been severely hampered by lack of equipment and funds.
Substantial progress in initiating agricultural operations has however been
made. Plans for the phased rehabilitation of Kakira and the development of
an outgrower scheme have been finalized. KSW management, supported by
engineering consultants financed under Cr. 1434-UG, is proceeding with
procurement of urgently required agricultural machz.nery and equipment for a
first phase of factory rehabilitation with finance from ongoing IDA
credits. Detailed designs for the first phase of factory rehabilitation
have been completed. The scope, nature, key operational features, options
considered, and progrese to date of the rehabilitation program are
summarized below.
Agricultural ODerations
2.10     Land Rehabilitation and Present Cane Availability.  When KSW
assumed management in 1985 some 1,350 ha of the 7,935 ha of potential cane
land had standing cane. A large proportion of this cane was in its third
ratoon or beyond and about 300 ha had to be cleared of old cane. Of the
6,600 ha of abandoned or overgrown fields some 1,400 ha have since been
cleared and over 1,100 ha planted with new cane. Some 5,500 ha of land
therefore remain to be rehabilitated. Presently about 2,000 ha of estate
land are in standing cane, which is aging, some beyond the limit for use in
milling or jaggery production. If the factory is ready to commence
crushing by mid 1988, some 1,300 ha of cane could be milled in 1988, about
250 ha of standing cane would be used for jaggery production and over 500
ha of land would be cleared of about 45,000 tc which would have to be
discarded because of its age. Delays in the rehabilitation of the factory
are therefore costly as measured by incremental cane losses, hence the
urgency for KSW to obtain financing for a first phase factory
rehabilitation (para 2.18) and the procurement of agricultural machinery
and transport to support salvaging standing cane and expanded agricultural
development. Such machinery and transport is being financed by a US$3.6 M
loan from the Uganda Development Bank under Cr.1248-IG.



- 10 -
2.11     Field Operations.  The estate planting cycle would consist of 20
months of plant cane followed by two ratoons of 18 months for a totel of 56
months. The outgrower areas would have a total cycle of 74 months to allow
for a third ratoon. The economy of extending the cycle to three ratoons on
the estate would be investigated on trial areas. The traditional
cultivation sequence at Kakira featured preparation of land to an
unnecessarily high standard. It is now being modified by KSW and future
operations will oe reduced for minimum tillage, and large industrial
crawlers and heavy rippers will largely be replaced by wheeled tractors and
lighter equipment without significant reduction in yields. The cultivation
sequence will consist of two disc ploughing using crawler tractors,
followed by ripping, single passage of disc harrow and furrowing. Seed
cane would be cut from fields planted as nurseries with heat treated seed.
Appropriate fertilizing regimes have been determined based on soil analysis
and are being verified and modified through ongoing and continuing trials.
Weed control is to be provided by a pre-emergence application of suitable
herbicides followed by mechanized weedings. Materials and rates will be
modified according to experience and results of field trials. Insect
infestation has never been a problem on the Kakira estate. Damage due to
stem borers has not been reported. White scales and mealy bugs have been
reported but damage is well within economic threshold levels. Preventive
measures include detrashing of cane and selection of bug free sets for
planting. The use of chemical insecticides has never been required.
2.12     Irrigation.  Comprehensive rainfall data show that about one-third
of the estate area, near Lake Victoria, has significantly lower rainfall
(about 150 mm less) than the remaining areas. This differential was
reflected in lower cane yields in the drier area and following positive
experiments an overhead sprinkler irrigation system was developed and put
in place during the 19609. Records show yields on irrigated lands
averaging 16 tcy/ha/-ear higher than for non-irrigated lands. This
underestimates the incremental yields from irrigation since the average
rainfall conditions in the irrigated (drier) zone is lower than in the non-
irrigated areas.2
2.13     The irrigation system, fed by water from the lake, consists of
buried main pipe lines with portable equipment comprising pipes and rain
guns. The pumps are driven by electrical motors, with total energy
requirements of 6 M KH/year.  The system has deteriorated since 1972 and is
no longer operational. KSW proposes to rehabilitate the system at an
investment cost of US$1.4 M for an incremental yield at full development of
about 54,000 tcy. The proposed investment is considered justified noting
that (a) the financial cost to KSW per ton of outgrower cane is higher than
that of incremental cane from irrigation and that (b) the economic cost per
ton of outgrower cane is in the same range as that of incremental cane from
irrigation. By reinstating the irrigation system KSW reduces risks
associated with shortages of outgrowers cane supply to the factory, fire
hazards and impact of drought on cane yields. Irrigation also provides for
enhanced cane for estate planting material.
2/ Irrigation experiments carried out in 1954-58 on the drier part of the
estate show incremental sugar cane yields due to irrigation to be 50Z
of yields on non-irrigated lands.



- 11 
2.14     Harvesting and transDort systems.  Kakira formerly used a highly
labor-intensive harvesting and transport system based on manual cane
cutting and the narrow gauge railway for cane transport. To establish the
optimum system, taking into account the present day costs and labor
availability, three alternative systems were evaluated: (a) labor intensive
as the former system; (b) full mechanization involving chopper harvester
and road haulage (i.e. eliminating railvays); and (c) partial mechanization
comprising manual cutting, mechanical loading and infield tractor haulage
with transloading on to the railwayb. The partial mechanization (c above)
is the least cost option assuming labor costs below US$1.6/day. Present
wages are below this level despite recent upward adjustments in light of
severe difficulties experienced in attracting and retaining field labor.
The labor supply response to such adjustments would be fully assessed
during the first cane harvest starting mid 1988. At that time KSW would
test both of the lower cost methods (b) and (c). Based on working
experience thus gained management would consider the justification of
introducing on an appropriate scale mechanized cutting of cane. The design
of the rehabilitation program therefore requires flexibility in the degree
of mechanization to be used in harvesting.
2.15     Machinery and Workshop.  The estate, machinery and fixed assets
all have suffered from lack of maintenance since 1972. Available
agricultural machinery and vehicles are incapable of supporting even the
present very reduced level of activities for estate development and
cultivation. Many items require complete replacement. The workshops are
in a state of disrepair and riquire structural rehabilitation as well as
new tools and equipment. The railway tracks are generally in good
condition and seven locomotives and about 1,000 rail trucks are
operational.
Factory Operations
2.16     The factory has not been in operation since December 1984.  It is
considerably run down and in some areas unsafe to operate. The mills are
unable to operate efficiently at an acceptable standard of sucrose
extraction and require rollers, intercarriers and turbine spares. The key
objectives to be accomplished through proper rehabilitation are to (a)
obtain reliable factory operation and satisfactory technical performance at
the required throughput for a minimum of ten years; (b) achieve early
restart of production, possibly by way of an interim program, to avoid
costly losses of standing cane; (c) optimize the use of existing assets
where they form an adequate basis for development; and 'd) facilitate
further improvements to throughput and performance as and when justified.
A series of rehabilitation options has been evaluated. These options
differed in respect of capacity targets, extent to which existing equipment
would be retained/refurbished as opposed to replaced and timing and phasing
of the program. A major consideration centered around the technical and
economic viability of the use of equipment purchased in 1976 by the
Government from Reggiane OMI-SA, an Italian parastatal agency, with finance
from the Italian Government. It was intended that this equipment would
reinstate the factory to a capacity of 3,000 tcd. Due to financial
constraints, however, the Government was unable to fully pay for the
shipment and Installation of the equipment. Thus, about 40 percent remains
in Italyt the balance, less mino- losses, is stored at Kakira.



- 12 -
2.17     The analysis of the installed factory equipment and its condition,
and the overall cost estimates as compared to a totally new factory shows
that the existing factory contains sufficient equipment for retaining and
refurbishing to make a rehabilitation program feasible. The majority of
plant items which are beyond economic repair can be replaced by equipment
purchased under the Reggiane contract. This equipment has been examined by
independent engineering consultants and found to be of adequate quality to
be made effectively operable. The total cost of refurbishing, storing and
shipping the Reggiane equipment presently in Italy to Kakira and of
refurbishing the equipment in storage at Kakira is estimated at US$3.6 M.
In comparison the onsite cost of new plant has been estimated at US$10.9 M.
Furthermore, the use of the Reggiane equipment compared to new equipment
would bring forward by at least 15 months the start-up of the factory.
2.18     Evaluation of the option of rehabilitating the factory to a final
capacity of 1,500 tcd as opposed to 3,000 tcd showed the former far less
attractive in terms of financial rate of return because of higher unit
capital and opsrating costs. Purthermore, the larger project option better
satisfies the urgent need of Uganda for import substitution and employment
and offers greater opportunities for the involvement of small scale farmers
in the area. It was therefore concluded that (a) rehabilitation of the
existing factory to 3,000 tcd capacity, using primarily the Reggiane
equipment, involves the least additional capital cost and the most
advantageous ratio of capital cost to production capacity; and (b)
rehabilitation should proceed in two phases: a first phase to bring
capacity up to 1,500 tcd, using primarily Reggiane equipment to allow
crushing of already standing cane; and a subsequent phase to bring capacity
up to 3,000 tcd.
2.19     In November 1985, the Government requested that funds under Cr.
1328-UG be made available for refurbishment and shipment of the Reggiane
equipment. In March 1987, IDA, recognizing the urgency of initiating
factory rehabilitation and being satisfied that (a) the financial structure
of KSW was acceptable; (b) the value of the Reggiane equipment had been
passed by the Government to KSW as a long term loan; and that (c) the
Government had agreed to appropriate macro-economic policy reform, agreed
to the Government's request. Refurbisrment and shipping contracts have
since been let and the equipment is scheduled to be available for
installation at Kakira shortly.
Tnfrastructure
2.20     Part of the infrastructure, notably roads, is in remarkably good
condition. However, the buildings generally and housing specifically have
suffered severely from lack of maintenance, although most are structurally
safe and repairable. The water supply system is in poor condition and
needs rehabilitation. The housing requirements can be met largely by
rehabilitating existing buildings and by limited construction of new
houses. Kakira comprises administrative offices, plantation offices,
stores, transport yards, maintenance and railway facilities, schools
(primary and secondary), a hospital, cinema and sports stadium, guest and
rest houses, a club, education and welfare buildings, various other smaller
buildings and laboratories, and a training center. Most of these buildings



- 13 -
have deteriorated severely from lack of maintenance over the last decade
and need to be restored to livable condition and appropriately equipped.
2.21     The housing and other buildings are all serviced from a tarmac
road system (much of it dual carriageway) with surface water drainage and
an overhead electrical distribution grid all in fairly good condition.
Water is derived from Lake Victoria, which supplies all the estate's needs
through pumping into a township reservoir and distribution under gravity by
a system of buried pipes. Pumps are in good condition but the main
pipeline feeding the reservoir needs replacement for meeting the combined
estate and factory demand (70 litres/second).
D. Organization, Manaaement and Staff Resources
2.22     The implementation of the physical rehabilitation program must be
based on a rational organizational structure of the company, efficient
mnagement, and suitable arrangements to attract and retain competent staff
at all levels. "he JVA provides for EARL to provide managerial services to
K8W and to assist in recruiting competent technical staff. It specifically
provides for EAHL to propose two Joint Managing Directors (JMDs) for a
period of 90 months. EAHL accordingly nominated and the KSW Board approved
Mestbrs. Manubhai Madhvani and Mayur Madhvani as JMDs.  This arrangement
brings to XSW management the combined experience and qualifications of the
two JMDs in diverse aspects of sugar estate management. At present senior
management positions are being filled on a temporary basis while procedures
for recruitment of qualified personnel are being finalized.
2.23     At full development KSW would need to employ 230 persons in
managerial or supervisory positions, about 580 artisans, technicians and
clerks and about 3,550 laborers for a total staff and labor force of 4,360.
In comparison, XSU is currently employing about 2,400 persons, 150, 290 and
1,950 in the above three employment categories, respectively. The
availability of qualified Ugandans to assume managerial, supervisory and
key technical responsibilities in XSW in the short to medium term is
severely restricted since the Ugandan sugar industry has been dormant for
more than a decade and many qualified Ugandans, previously employed in the
industry, have left the country because of political and security problems.
Consequently, it was recognized from the outset of preparation of the
rehabilitation program that a sizeable number of managerial and technical
positions would initially need to be filled by qualified expatriates
supported by adequate levels of remuneration through salaries and incentive
packages. At the same time it would be an objective of the company to
promote the gradual replacement of expatriates by suitable and qualified
Ugandan nationals through the necessary training programs. The KSW Board
has approved the expatriate staffing program as proposed by its management
who will seek secondment to XSW of experienced and qualified persons from a
suitable international firm.
S. U8V Financial Structure and Performance
2.24     XSW's opening balance sheet as at March 12, 1985, (the starting
date of the JVA) has been established as a result of (a) an audit of the
accounts of MSL (KSW's predecessor company); (b) the valuation of assets to
be transferred to K8W as per JVAI (c) agreement between XSW's shareholders



_ 14 -
on the principles for determining the liabilities to be assumed by KSW; and
(d) other relevant provisions of the JVA, as amended, and the SA.   The
audit and asset valuation were financed from Cr. 1434-UG. KSW's financial
structure (details in Chapter VT) reflects the principles for financial
structuring enunciated by IDA during preparation and appraisal of the
project namely that (a) XSW should only assume liabilities which were
backed by tangible assets (fixed assets, stocks and crops) transferred to
KSW as per the JVA; and (b) the liabilities due to EAHL relating to the
Government's acquisition in 1972 of shareholding in MSW be accepted by the
Government rather than assumed by KSW as per the original JVA.
Accordingly, and given company's satisfactory debt - equity ratio (24:76),
the capital structure of XSW provides an adequate base for financing the
proposed rehabilitation program.
2.25     KSW's accounts have been brought up to date and accounts for the
first year of operation (period up to April 30, 1986) have been audited by
the company's appointed auditors and approved by the Board. Estimates for
186187 indicate cumulative operating losses before depreciation up to
April 30, 1987 of about US$ 1.5 M as a result of substantial establishment
expenses as against limited revenues from jaggery sales (no sugar
produced). During the two initial years of operation the shortfalls in
funds generated from operations have been covered by the injection of cash
by the Government as part of shareholders' contribution towards
rehabilitation cost. KSW management is in the process of formulating a
program of revitalizing the company's financial management, control and
reporting procedures, systems of costing, budgeting and inventory control,
and financial reporting to the Board.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Main Features
3.01     The proposed project would over a six-year period rehabilitate the
lakira sugar complex and re-establish its historical production levels. It
would thereby save the country significant amounts of foreign exchange.
This objective would be achieved through provision of:
(a)   agricultural machinery and equipment, civil works and vehicles
for asricultural development, involving the rehabilitation of cane
production on 7,935 ha of estate area and establishing 4,100 ha of
outgrower area (US$12.0 M);
(b)   factory equipment and technical assistance (engineering
supervision) for phased rehabilitation of the sugar factory to a
capacity of 3000 tcd; a major part of rehabilitation to be
undertaken using equipment procured earlier by the Government for
Kakira but never installed (US$20.0 M);
(c)   civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance
(engineering supervision) for rehabilitation of infrastructure
including housing, utilities, roads, social facilities, etc.
(US$7.3 M);;
(d)   technical assistance for strengthening of management and training
(US$9.9 H); and



- 15 -
(e)   financing of KSW's incremental working canital reauirements in
support of the company's initial operations (US$11.0 H).
3.02     In addition to the rehabilitation of the Kakira sugar complex, the
project would support the establishment of a small Sugar Industry Unit
within OI to strengthen the Ministry's role in monitoring the performance
of the sugar industry, coordinating industry policy and responding in
general to the industry's need for assistance during a period of
rehabilitation. The implementation of the project would involve the
adoption by the Government of an import parity based sugar pricing policy
and a mechanism for liberalizing sugar marketing and pricing.
B. Proiect Components 3/
3.03     Chapter II outlined the scope and nature of the rehabilitation
requirements and reviewed optional strategies for addressing these
requirements. Project components, designed against this background, are
summarized below (details in Annex 1).
Argcultural Development (US$12.0 M)
3.04     Estate Machinery (US$7.2 M).  The agricultural equipment
requirements and field practices proposed by KSN are considered to be well
r-onceived. The project would provide sufficient machinery for: proper
clearance and rehabilitation of 5,630 ha of estate land; land preparation;
replanting of the entire plantation (7,935 ha); land cultivation; and
harvesting and transporting estate cane to factory. Provisions made
include eight harvesting units, part of which would be provided in time for
the 1988 harvesting season to compensate for the shortage of labor and help
prevent discarding of mature cane. A decision on the need for and
procurement of additional equipment would be taken by KSW in consultation
with financiers following the review of the availability of manual labor
for cane harvesting which would be undertaken after completion of the first
year's cane harvest. Assurances were obtained from KSW during negotiations
that such a review would be undertaken no later than October 31, 1988 and
that the results and RSW management recommendations regarding possible
further mechanization of harvesting operations be submitted for IDA review
and comment by December 15, 1988.
3.05     Outarower Machinery (US$1.6 M).  The project would provide KSW
with adequate plant and equipment to carry out mechanical services for land
preparation and cane transportation to realize the program of cane supplies
(243,000 tcy) from 4,100 ha of outgrower plots. Road maintenance equipment
would be included to establish and keep outgrower roads in good condition.
3.06     Vehicles (US$0.8 M).  To facilitate mobility of field staff for
general farm operations and maintenance, lorries, trucks, light vehicles,
motorcycles and bicycles would be provided.
3.07     Irrigation Equinment (US$1.5 H).  The existing but defunct
overhead sprinkler irrigation system would be rehabilitated. The work
31  All costs are in current dollars, inclusive of all contingencies.



- 16 -
would involve complete replacement of seven pumps including motors, repair
to about 2.2 km of the main water pipeline and replacement of about one
quarter of the existing portable irrigation equipment.
3.08     Other Agricultural Investments (US$0.7 H).  To improve
agricultural performance and operations, tools and equipment would be
provided for the workshops, agronomic research, the hot water treatment
plant and the meteorological station. The agricultural estate buildings
and workshops would be renovated and provided with communication
facilities.
Factor, Rehabilitation (US$20.0 M)
3.09     The factory would be rehabilitated to a capacity of 3,000 tcd
using initially existing equipment and equipment supplied under the
Reggiane contract (para. 2.19). Phase I of the rehabilitation would aim at
an interim capacity of 1,500 tcd to be used for crushing already standing
mature cane before installation of additional capacity. At full
development, sugar production would be about 85,000 tsy, based on a
crushing rate of 139 tc/hour, 270 crushing days and a 90 percent factory
time efficiency. The factory would employ a three-boiling system producing
double cured sugar. A double sulfitation process would be installed to
produce white sugar. The factory is designed to reduce usage of
supplementary fuel to nominal quantities for start-up and emergency use
only. Provisions have been included to ensure that effluent disposal poses
no ill effects. The rehabilitation design provides scope for subsequent
expansion or technical improvement if deemed justified at a future date.
3.10     EauiDment and Installation (US$19.0 H).  The project would provide
equipment and spares to refurbish existing equipment, replacement of
existing equipment beyond reclamation using the Reggiane equipment and new
equipment such as a gantry, crane and grab and feed table for handling
outgrower cane, cane carrier, molasses handling and storage facilities, a
standby diesel alternator and a new lime/sulphur house. Rehabilitation
works would be installed under turnkey contracts. Factory staff would be
responsible for external maintenance.
3.11     Enaineering and Suipervision (US$1.0 M).  The services of an
experienced international sugar engineering firm have been employed by KSW
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The contract provides for a
total of 121 man-months of services in mechanical, electrical, structural
and process engineering. Under the first part of the contract, financed
under Cr. 1434-UG, the factory consultants have finalized detailed design,
specifications and procurement documents for Phase I rehabilitetion. The
firms will be responsible for supervising Phase I construction and
installation works and preparation of detailed engineering, specification
and bidding documents for Phase II rehabilitation. The second part of the
contract due to start in April 1988 would involve (a) finalizing
procurement for Phase II; (b) supervising construction and installation;
and (c) ensuring quality control of site works.



- 17 _
Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$7.3 M).
3.12     Vehicles and Eauipment (US$0.4 M).  Vehicles, including cars and
pick-ups, ambulances, vans, motocycles and bicycles, would be provided to
ensure mobility of the administrative staff. The hospital, training center,
training hostel, offices and schools would be provided with equipment and
furnishings.
3.13     Housing and Buildinas (US$5.6 M).  Housing facilities would be
upgraded at the estate to accomiodate all staff and labor required at
steady state operation. About 54 new houses for professional, supervisory,
and technicallclerical staff would be constructed. Some 350 staff houses
of different grades and about 2,800 single room dwelling,s for laborers
would be renovated and rehebilitated. The number and size of existing
office and administrative buildings and health and education facilities are
adequate. The buildings would be improved to satisfy administrative
requirements. The social amenities would be improved to cater also to the
needs of laborers and outgrowers. Most expenditures would be on repairs
and improvements to existing buildings. Only one new building, a training
hostel, would be constructed. Staff for the health, education and social
facilities would be provided by KSW.
3.14     Services and Utilities (US$0.8 M).  The project would improve the
estate water supply and road systems.  The capacity of the water supply
system (70 liters/sec.) is adequate for both estate and factory
requirements. However, pumps and motors need to be replaced, 3.5 km of new
pipeline would be constructed and a new chlorine dosing system would be
added for potable water. The estate road system is in fairly good
condition but will suffer increased rates of wear as a result of increased
traffic and loading during and after project implementation. All tarmac
roads (11.3 km) would therefore be resurfaced under the project.
3.15     Ensineering and Supervision (US$0.5 M).  The proposals for
buildings and infrastructure are based on standard design practice and
specifications in Uganda or Kenya. The detailed design of new works, and
preparation of tender documents for new construction and rehabilitation
works, would be finalized by a qualified engineering firm which also would
supervise the implementation of works through a resident engineer for a
period of 36 months.
-Staffing and Training (USS9.9 H)
3.16     Qualified and experienced personnel would be recruited inter-
nationally to fill identified positions for which detailed job
specifications have already been prepared, until they can be replaced by
Ugandan nationals. Employment of expatriate staff services over the
project period would involve 85 man-years in the agricultural section, 103
man-years in factory operation and 86 man-years in administration and
project coordination. The salary costs for a total of 274 man-years are
based on salary norms proposed by KSW which are reasonable, considering the
sources and mix of the proposed recruitment. A special unit would be
established within KSW for planning and implementation of a manpower
development and training program. The pro.ect would provide for overseas



- 18 -
training of about 30 local staff, in cases where such training would be
essential for staff to enhance their educational qualifications to meet the
requirements for promotion to higher levels of responsibility (para 4.10).
Incremental Working Caoital (USS11.0 M)
3.17     ISW's incremental working capital requirements over the project
period have been estimated at US$11.0 M (Annex 1, Table 4). The project
would provide for external financing of the foreign exchange costs for
imported items (US$2.5 M) of the incremental working capital. This would
eower UV's incremental purchases of fertilizers, herbicides, factory
chemicals, packaging materials, machine spares and sundry items.
Supoort Services for GOU (USS0.3 M)
3.18     The MO0 intends to strengthen its organization by establishing a
Sugar Industry Unit (SIU) for monitoring the industry's rehabilitation and
its performance (para. 4.02). The project would contribute to the
establishment of this unit and support its early operations, providing
office support equipment and an internationally recruited sugar advisor for
18 man-months.
C. Proiect Costs
Cost Estimates
3.19     The total cost of investments and KSW's incremental working
capital requirements under the project, including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$61.5 M, of which US$46.8 M (76 percent)
would be foreign exchange. Estimates of investment costs are exclusive of
duties and taxes which the Government has agreed to waive on rehabilitation
investments.  All but US$0.3 M (for support to MOI) involve the
rehabilitation of KSV. Project costs exclude the cost of the Reggiane
equipment (para 2.16) which are considered sunk costs, but include costs
for refurbishment and shipment of the equipment to Kakira. Details of cost
estimates, summarized in Table 3.1, are in Annex 1. The project baseline
costs are updates to October 1987 of costs originally appraised in April
1985 using historical local and international inflation rates and an
exchange rate of 1 US$ - USh (old) 6,000. Physical contingencies account
for 6 percent of baseline costs for investments. Price contingencies,
equivalent to 7 percent of the baseline cost, reflect projected local and
international inflation rates, heavy concentration of expenditures during
the early project years, a;.d a continuous adjustment of the exchange rate
In line with maintaining a constant purchasing parity exchange rate (Annex
1, Table 5).



- 19 _
table 3 1  Project Cost Suisary
(1N  I)                          U. Sb.(alle)  )
I Ionia
Cooneant                                Loal  lorii    Total Ecawo    Lcl  loelP                    total
............ ..  ...                 .......  ........ ........ ........   ...... ........ .......
Rshbilitation ttl:
4Aricultural Dbeloput                     0.3     10.5      10.8        nI      20.4    621.3    64?.?
latory  lehabilitatioa                    1.3     16.9      18.2        9s      79.8   1012.2   101.8
nfastrotun  berelopeat                  1.1       5.2       6.3        N       81610    814.1    315.1
Staffg and Traiing                        1.2      I.6       8.6        86      14.4    43.2    521.6
ubtotal                                  3.9       0.1      44.0        I1    235.4   2406.9   242.
kpport to liistry of
lidutry and Tcholog                                 0.3       0.3       114       0.0      18.1      13.1
total baselNe Cost ("el.
In. lorkig Capital)                       3.9       0.4      44.3        91    235.4   2125.0   2660.4
Pysical Contin cies                     0.2       2.5       2.?        92      12.8    151.0    163.6
Price Contingcies                       2.1       1.8       3.5        38    316.6   122.6   1539.3
Total CoU t (el. Ic.  oring
Capital)                                  8.2      44.3      50.5        88    56 4.      198.6   4363.1
1   Inc. Workig Capital                    8.5       2.5     11.0         23    5099    150.5    660.5
TffL PROE      T COST                     14.1     4.6       61.5        76   11.5   3949.    023.6
~~~~~~~............ ............................. ............................................................................ .
D. Financing
Sources
3.20          External sources would finance the equivalent of US$50.4 H (82
percent of project costs, meeting all foreign exchange costs and 22
percent) of local costs. XSW, through shareholders equity contributions
and Internal cash generation, would finance the equivalent of US$11.1 M (18
percent) of total project costs. The financing plan is swnmnrized below
(Details in Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7).



- 20 -
Table 3.2 - Proiect Financint Plan
(US$ M)
Local       Foreign               (Z of
Source                Cost         Exchange    Total    Total)
IDA
Cr. 1248-UG                         3.3        3.3        (5)
Cr. 1328-UG          -              3.8        3.8        (6)
Cr. 1434-4W          -               .3         .3
Proposed Project     1.9           23.0       24.9       (40)
Subtotal             1.9           30.4       32.3       (52)
AfDF                    1.6           7.8        9.4       (15)
AfDB                     .1           8.6        8.7       (15)
KSV                   -1.1                      11.1       (18)
Total                 14.7           46.8       6-.5      (100)
3.21     The African Development Bank (AfDB) and the African Development
Fund (AfDF) are cofinancing the project with IDA, AfDB has approved a loan
of BUA 6.86 M (US$8.7 H equivalent) which would finance all foreign
exchange costs (incl. items under increment3l working capital) and part of
the local costs related to the estate segment of the agricultural
development eomponent. The AfDF has approved a credit of FUA 7.97 M
(US$9.4 M equivalent) which would finance corresponding cost elements of
the outgrower development program and the infrastructural development
component.
3.22     IDA has already agreed to the Government's request for use of (a)
US$3.6 M under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1328-UG) for the
refurbishment, storage and shipping of the Reggiane equipment; and (b)
US$0.35 M under the Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1434-4G) for a
first phase of factory engineering services to KSW. IDA has also approved
the proposal by the Uganda Development Bank (UDB) to lend US$3.6 M to KSW
as a subproject under the Industrial Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1248-UG)
for the procurement of machinery and agricultural inputs. The proposed new
IDA credit of US$24.9 M would finance factory rehabilitation beyond Phase 1
requirements covered under ongoing credits, the foreign exchange costs of
remunerations to KSW expatriate staff, incremental factory inputs, and
institutional support to MO0.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.23     IDA Funds.  Of the proposed credit of US$24.9 M equivalent, the
Government would make US$0.3 M available to OI to support the
establishment and initial operations of SIU. The balance, US$24.6 M, would
be onlent to KSW. Onlending would be directly to KSW rather than through a
financial intermediary, since there exists in Uganda no developmental or
commercial banking institution which is structured and prepared to assume
the risk of onlending external project funds to KSW on the envisaged scale.
Onlending would be for a period of 15 years, with five years' grace on
interest and capital, at an annual interest rate of 8.71 percent,
equivalent to the IBRD rate prevailing at the time of credit negotiations
plus a premium of 10 percent on the IBRD rate.  The loan to KSW would be
denominated in US dollars, but KSW would repay in local currency at
exchange rates applicable at the time of repayment.  Thus, KSW would bear



- 21 -
the foreign exchange risk related to the value of the local currency vis-a-
vie the US dollar. The Goverament's loan from IDA would be denominated in
SDRs and the Government would therefore assume the foreign exchange risk of
the US dollar relative to the SDR.
3.24     Funds channelled to KSW as an already approved subproject under
the Industrial Rehabilitation Project have been onlent to KSW by the
Government through UDB on terms and conditions applicable to the project
(Cr.1248-UG). Funds used by the Government under Cr.1328-UG and Cr.1434-UG
to support ongoing KSW Phase 1 rehabilitation works would be onlent to KSW
on the same terms and conditions as the proposed credit. The completion of
an agreement covering such onlending and a subsidiary loan agreement
covering onlending of the proposed new IDA credit, satisfactory to IDA,
between the Government and KSW would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed new credit.
3.25     AfDBlAfDF.  The AfDB loan and the AfDF credit to the Government
are on standard terms employed by these institutions. The Government would
onlend the entire loan and credit to RSW on same terms and conditions as
those governing onlending of IDA funds (para 3.23) except that there would
be no grace period for interest payments.
E. Procurement
3.26     Items to be financed by IDA under the proposed credit would be
procured through arrangements as summarized in Table 3.3. Procurement
arrangements for items financed under ongoing IDA credits are made in
accordance with the procurement schedules of the respective Development
Credit Agreements. Procurement of project items to be financed by AfDB and
AfDF would be arranged in accordance with the procurement procedures and
guidelines of these agencies.
3.27     Factor, Rehabilitation Works.  Contracts for the first phase
rehabilitation works, involving refurbishment and installation of Reggiane
equipment, have been or are about to be entered into in accordance with
procurement provisions under ongoing IDA Cr. 1328-UG and Cr. 1248-UG.   The
second phase of the factory rehabilitation program would be carried out
under a factory contract (US$13.5 M) inclusive of purchase of additional
equipment and would be procured following IDA guidelines for international
competitive bidding (ICB). Some rehabilitation work involving primarily
refurbishment of existing equipment would be carried out by KSW staff using
materials, spares and equipment which would be procured on the basis of
local procedures involving a minimum of three bids in cases of procurement
of non-proprietary goods, amounts totalling an estimated value of US$1.5
M, equivalent to 10 percent of the estimated cost of Phase 2 rehabilitation
works.



-  22
table 3.3 Pro umnt Schedle
_._..................
Propos  In  Cttdit
............... ...  ......................... .... .......  ... ....   .......
b/            Otbe  c/ Al
Catgory/Ite                                 ICB      LCa      Oher      total   Soure    Sooure
....................... ............................  ....  ..... . ..... . ....   ................... ....... ....... ...
----.......                   )--- ------o-------( U )- ----- - 
I.Civil lorks and  tilities                                                         6.0      6.
2.hgricultural Ihb nery,Plat ad                                                    10.6     10.6
Slactory lbbilit tion ad                    1.1                 1.      15.0      5.0      0.0
Eqipent                                   (13.5)              (1.5)   (15.0)             (15.0)
4.lehiclsa iadlic. Equipnt                                       0.1      1.1       1.2       1.1
(0.1)    (0.1)              (0.1)
5.Isbnical hsistuaoe(K   Ng.                                     1.0      1.0       1.0      2.0
ad trainid      coultuts,nad SII)                             (1.0)    (1.0)              (1.0)
6.5tafiah  Servics 'IM)                                            3      1.3                 0.
(1.4)    (1.4)              (1.4)
?.Traiing (ovese)                                                0.4      0.4                 0.1
(.4)     (.A)               (.A)
Lbere.eatal Wokiag Capitl (in-                                   1.0       1.0     10.0      11.0
prted ipts)                                                   (1.0)    (1.0)               (1.0)
._.__.. _ _._. ................._._..... ,_...._.__........._._._....... .. _._.____ .............................. ---. ..... __
otal                                      13.5               13.3     26.8      34.1     61.5
(13.5)             (11.4)   (24.0)             (24.0)
4/  ir      prentesos ao eatin             ats to be fincd utn  te pr sd       cedait.
f Includes proment of  onultat  ervic   folloving ID  guidelins; local prWo s
involving smilergotation  ud direct orer.
c/ figures so  total costs of prject elemts to be entirely fiaeo   by ogoing I11
credits, Al/AI ad 151.



- 23 -
3.28     Factory Ininuts and Goods.  Incremental factory spares for
maintenance (US$0.6 M), chemicals, packaging materials and sundry inputs
for factory operations (US$0.4M), would constitute  relatively small
components in overall purchases of the annual requirements for such items.
As such they would be procured following local procedures, involving direct
orders from manufacturers of installed equipment or supplier's quotations.
Local procedures have been reviewed and are acceptable. Procurement of few
items involving vehicles and equipment for SIU (totalling US$0.1 M) would
be done on basis of quotations following local procedures.
3.29     Technical Assistance and Staffina Services.  Engineering
consultant services for Phase 2 of the factory rehabilitation program
(US$0.6 M) have already been provided for in the form of a possible second
part to a contract already entered into between KSW and an engineering firm
for the supply of such services for Phase 1 with financing from IDA
Cr.1434-UG (para 3.11). This contract was procured in conformity with IDA
guidelines and the implementation of its second part is conditional upon
the availability of additional funds to 1SW. The procurement of training
consultants services (para. 4.10) involving 14 man-months is being
initiated following IDA guidelines.
3.30     XSW would enter into a c'.,ntract with a suitable intcrnational
consulting firm to recruit and tecond managerial and technical staff to
KSW, involving about 275 man-years over a six-year period (para. 4.09). To
allow flexibility in the precise number and duration of assignment of
expatriates in individual staff positions, the contract cost, estimated at
US$0.9 M, would exclude the remunerations of seconded staff (estimated cost
US$8.4 M). The staffing services firm would enter into contracts with
individual staff based on (a) the selection by KSW's Board or management of
such staff from short lists (at least three candidates per position)
submitted by the firm; and (b) the approval by KSW of proposed contracts.
The selection by KSW of a firm for award of contract is in process.
Signing of a contract with the firm, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.31     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works and goods,
excluding those involving factory inputs, estimated to cost in excess of
US$500,000 each (expected to be two in number) would be subject to prior
IDA review of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage
of about 80 percent of the total estimated value of contracts that would be
financed by IDA. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post
review by IDA after contract award.
F. Disbursements
3.32     The US$ 24.9 M IDA credit would be allocated among disbursement
categories and disbursed as follows:



- 24 -
Table 3.4   Allocation of IDA Credit and Disbursement Arrangements
(US $ '000)
Cateaorv                        Amount Allocated       Expenditures Financed
1. Factory rehabilitation
(equipment, materials and        13,500         1002
Installation works)
2.  Vehicles and misc. equipment          50        lO?t of foreign
(MOI)                                        and 652 of local
expenditures for
imported items procured
locally
3.  Factory inputs                       870        1002 of foreign
expenditures
4.  Consultant services                  700        1002 of foreign
(KSM)                                        expenditures
5. Managerial and Technical
Staff remuneration (KSW)        6,650         1OO2 of foreign
expenditures
6. Overseas training (KSW)               350        1002
7.  Consultant Services (MOI)            280        100?
8.  Unallocated                        2.500
Total                            24,900
3.33     Disbursements would be made over a period of six years (Annex 10).
The application of the 10 year standard profile for agricultural projects
In East Africa is considered inappropriate for two main reasons. First,
operations underlying the standard profile involve almost exclusively lines
of credit administered by financial intermediaries and/or Government
parastatal agencies as beneficiaries and project implementors.
implementation and disbursements under these operations are heavily
influenced by (a) the ability of financial intermediaries to appraise
individual subprojects and expedite loan processing (involving phased
uptake of credit to a large number of small to medium size enterprises)
and/or (b) organizational, managerial and operational weaknesses of
parastatals. Neither of these conditions prevail under the proposed
project. Second, rehabilitation of KSW is already ongoing with
agricultural development and procurement of factory rehabilitation well
under way. The project is therefore not expected to face start up
difficulties or delays of the kind frequently experienced under projects
involving initiation of development or rehabilitation programs.
3.34     To facilitate project implementation and expedite disbursements,
KSW, through the Bank of Uganda, would open and operate a special account
for US$3 M in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The
account would be used to pre-finance all expenditures of the KSW component
that vould be eligible for reimbursement under the proposed IDA credit.
Hwrever, IDA would allow direct payment and special commitment withdrawal
procedures for expenditures over US$300,000 equivalent. The amount of the
special account is the estimated need for three months. It would be



- 25 _
replenished monthly or vhenever the balance falls below US$2 M, whichever
comes first.
3.35     Disbursement applications pertaining to use of the proposed IDA
credit to meet eligible project expenditures for KSW's rehabilitation
program would be made directly by KSW's Project Coordination Unit (para.
4.08). Applications involving project expenditures for establishment of
SIU (para. 4.02) would be submitted by MOI. All expenditures would be
fully documented except for overseas training programs and equipment and
factory input contracts whose value is less than $50,000 equivalent.
Expenditures for these items would be against statements of expenditures
and supporting documentation, including contracts governing remuneration
due to staff on secondment, would be retained by KSW's Project Coordination
Unit and made available for review by IDA and project auditors.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.36     The financial structuring of KSW has been rcompleted (paras.
6.01-6.07). The company's opening balance sheet has been prepared and
found satisfactory by IDA. Its accounts for first two years of operations
have been audited. KSW would keep a comprehensive set of accounts for its
sugar operations, including separate accounts for project expenditures.
The accounts, those of the company and project expenditures, would be
audited annually by joint auditors of chartered accountants acceptable to
IDA. One of the joint auditors would be the auditing firm currently
employed by KSW. The audited accounts of the company and the project,
together with the auditors' opinion, would be submitted to IDA annually not
later than four months after the end of the financial year. Assurances
were obtained from KSW during negotiations that the above arrangements
would be followed.
H. Environmental Impact
3.37     The project would not involve any clearing of previously
uncultivated land. One of the main environmental considerations is the
disposal of molasses produced to a level of 28,000 tons a year by 1992.
Plans envisage sale to nearby small distilleries and to SCU, which is
expanding its distillery, and the spreading of the excess on cane fields as
potash fertilizer. Potable alcohol production is indicated as a viable
possibility which would be examined during the mid-term review (para.
4.16). Factory engineering design will be flexible to accommodate this.
3.38     Effluents from the factory are injection water and washdown water.
A lagoon at the factory would be created for partial anaerobic degradation
of the biological oxygen demand load, which would be further broken down
while passing through the estate fields. Factory drains to collect the
washdown water would be installed with simple flotation type oil separators
to intercept the oil before the water gets discharged from the factory. A
system for monitoring of water quality at the factory outlet or points of
return to natural water bodies and/or drinking water supplies, would be
designed and implemented by the factory engineering section of the Project
Implementation Unit (para. 4.08). An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the above arrangements for control and monitoring of
effluent disposal would be instituted. Solid wastes from the sugar
manufacturing process are filter cake and boiler ash. The filter cake
would be returned to the fields as a soil conditioner, and the boiler ash



- 26 -
would be utilized as land fill. There would be no detrimental effects
associated with hauling solid wastes in this manner. Boiler stacks at the
factory generate flue gases. The new boilers supplied by Reggiane have
been equipped with multi-cyclone type flyash convertors. The particulates
in the flue gas would therefore be controlled to levels that would not
affect air quality. Since the primary fuels are bagasse and wood chips,
sulfur dioxide in the flue gas would not be hazardous. Fuel oil would only
be used for start-up when bagasse is not available.
3.39     Insect pests have historically not affected cane production at
Kakira (para. 2.11) and the use of chemical insecticides is not foreseen.
Herbicides would be financed under the project and the selection and use of
pesticides would be done taking into account the Bank's guidelines. KSW's
Agronomic Research Department would, however, be responsible for monitoring
pest incidence and associated disease problems and for advising as
appropriate on the introduction of additional pest management measures.
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01     KSW management would be directly responsible for implementing the
rehabilitation component. Several Government ministries and agencies
would, however, be involved in or impacting on implementation. The MOI
would monitor industry performance and advise on matters of industry
policy. The Ministry of Finance would ensure that the Government's agreed
contributions of equity are made available to KSW on a timely basis (para.
6.11). The Bank of UgaAda would be required to make the necessary foreign
exchange available on a timely basis to meet KSW's requirements for
importation of inputs, spares, replacement equipment and remittances of
expatriate salaries (para. 6.13). The Food and Beverages Ltd., would act
as a wholesale buyer of sugar produced by KSW (para. 5.10).
A. Ministry of Industry and Technology
4.02     The MOI is responsible for rendering policy advice to Government
on sugar industry matters and for monitoring the health and performance of
the industry. The Government recognizes the need for the establishment
within the Ministry of a Sugar Industry Unit (SIU) to properly perform
these functions. The Ministry also requires a capability to assist the
industry in expediting ongoing and envisaged rehabilitation programs. The
specific functions of SIU would be to (a) annually prepare proposals for
sugar pricing (para. 5.13); (b) monitor the impact of Government policies
(pricing, fiscal and trade) on the performance of the sugar industry and as
appropriate recommend policy adjustments; tc) disseminate technical
information and collect industry related statistics; (d) evaluate industry
proposals for investments in the context of a rational development plan for
the industry; and (e) respond to the industry's need for assistance and
provide a forum for consultations between industry representatives and the
Government. The SIU would be a small unit established directly under the
Permanent Secretary, MOI. It would be headed by an officer at the level of
principal economist who would report directly to the Permanent Secretary,
MOI. The unit would have a small complement of statistical officers and



- 27 -
support staff drawn from the Ministry. The Head of SIU would be assisted
In establishing, organizing and implementing the work program of the unit
by an internationally recruited Sugar Industry Advisor (18 man-months).
The SI  would also employ a short-term consultant economist (3 man-months)
to assist in the designing of an appropriate statistical base for
preparation of sugar pricing proposals. Assurances were obtained that (a)
the Head of SIU, with qualifications satisfactory to IDA, would be
appointed by August 31, 1988 following IDA's review of the qualifications
and experience of proposed candidates; and (b) a Sugar Industry Advisor
would be recruited by August 31, 1988 on terms and conditions and with
qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
B. NEW Organization ard Management
The Board
4.03     ISW Board has been constituted in accordance with the provisions
of the JVA, as amended, and the company'*s Articles and Memorandum of
Association. It is responsible to the shareholders for the performance of
the company and will determine corporate objectives, operational targets,
and policy framework for operational management, and review management's
performance relative to approved targets, budgets, and annual work
programs.
Operational Management
4.04     The chief executive responsibility would be shared by two Joint
Managing Directors (JMDs) as per JVA provisions (para. 2.22), who   would
be based at Rakira and accountable to the Board for day-to-day management
of company operations. As Board Members, JMDs would advise on company
policy and other matters. During negotiations it was confirmed that JMDs
are individually assuming responsibility for specific areas of operation in
order to establish unambiguous procedures for reporting by the company's
senior managers. The continued presence at Kakira of a Chief Executive
Officer is safeguarded by provisions under XSVW' Articles of Association
for the appointment of alternate directors.
4.05     The JMDs would manage operations through a General Managar, a
Financial Controller and a Project Coordinator. Descriptions for these
positions have been prepared. The General Manager would oversee and
coordinate the operations of the Agricultural Division, the Sugar Factory
Division, the Sweet Factory Division, the Personnel and Training Division,
the Purchasing Division, and the Sales Division, each of which would be
headed by a divisional manager. The Financial Controller (to be a Ugandan
national) as head of the Finance Division would be responsible for
financial management and budgetary control. The Proiect Coordinator would
head the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and would coordinate and
supervise the implementation of the rehabilitation program (para. 4.08).
The staff structure within divisions would be conventionally organized with
section managers, supervisors, technicians, artisans and laborers.
4.06     The JNDs would be assisted by a Deauty to the JMDs (to be a
Ugandan national) who in a staff rather than line position would be
assigned responsibility by JNDs to assist with inter alia. (a) liaison with
senior officials within Government agencies in support of smooth



- 28 -
implementation of the rehabilitation program and the operations of the
company (b) indust ial relations management; (c) implementation of the
program for employment and training of Ugandan nationals; td) preparation
of periodic operating plans and budgets; and (e) monitoring of performance
relative to targets and plans.
4.07     The above arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that KSW would maintain arrangements for
operational management that are satisfactory to IDA, including the
assignment of (a) the overall responsibility for day-to-day management of
the company to a Chief Executive Officer(s); and (b) senior divisional
management responsibilities to a General Manager, a Financial Controller
and a Project Coordinator with qualifications and terms of employment
satisfactory to IDA. The appointment of a Financial Controller would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The General Manager and the Project
Coordinator, both of whom would be recruited through the staffing services
firm (para. 3.30), would be appointed no later than ninety days after the
date of credit effectiveness.
C. Proiect Implementation
Proiect Implementation Unit
4.08     Implementation of the KSW rehabilitation program would be the
responsibility of the PIU which has been established for the duration of
the project. The scope of work for the PIU involves (.k) planning,
engineering and procurement administration relating to the rehabilitation
program; (b) supervision of the implementation of the program within
budgeted costs and time schedules; (c) preparation of annual work programs
and budgets for rehabilitation; and (d) progress reporting and coordination
with financing agencies (Annex 6.1). The PIU would be headed by a Project
Coordinator, a position currently filled on an acting basis. It would have
a small staff of its own (mainly administrative support), be assisted by
engineering expertise provided by a consulting firm, and on deputation
obtain the services of selected technical staff for the required periods
from the appropriate KSW divisions (Annex 6.2). Engineering staff are
already in place, and appropriate contractual provisions for securing their
services throughout the rehabilitation period have been completed. KSW
engineers would be seconded to the consultant's resident team. Assurances
were obtained that satisfactory arrangements would be instituted to ensure
the deputation to PIW of required KSW staff for the necessary periods.
Staffing and Training
4.09     The staff requirements at managerial, supervisory and senior
technical levels are detailed in Annex 7. Internationally recruited staff
would be replaced by Ugandan nationals through active local recruitment and
training. Expatriate staff requirements are estimated to peak at 65 during
the second and third year, and to decrease to 25 during the sixth (final)
project year and to 6 after another two years. The numbers of staff
required and the qualifications and job descriptions of the positions have
been reviewed and found appropriate. To provide for a suitable mechanism
for locating, recruiting, remunerating and securing continued services of a
large number of qualified staff, KSW would enter into an agreement with a



- 29 -
qualified international firm to recruit and second such staff to KSW for
specified periods. Staff would be paid by the international firm but be
solely responsible to KSW management during their periods of secondment.
The overall terms and conditions of secondment would be agreed between KSW
and the international firm as part of an agreement to be entered into
between the two parties satisfactory to IDA. The agreement would also
ensure that KSW would review and approve the curriculum vitae of proposed
staff prior to secondment, and that the international firm would replace
staff who perform unsatisfactorily.
4.10     To support the objective of replacing expatriate staff by Ugandan
nationals (para. 2.23) KSW would be assisted by a suitable consulting firm
in designing and implementing a comprehensive training program,
satisfactory to IDA, involving on-the-job training and formal training of
staff at Kakira as well as overseas. Basic facilities and programs for on-
the-job training and formal training in sugar technology and field
engineering exist at Kakira. Much of the training would take the form of
careful instructions during operations and special courses at the training
center for apprentices, technicians and graduates. The project would
provide for special training equipment and a new trainee hostel. The
training program at Kakira would be adequate for training of personnel in
day to day operations and professionalltechnical skills tc support the
planned rapid replacement of expatriate staff as from about the fifth year
of the project. Special overseas training is, however, required in highe:
technologies and management. The preparation of the program for training
Ugandan staff has been initiated and would be finalized once the training
consultant has been employed. The Training Department of the Personnel
Division wmtild be responsible for the implementation of the program. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that KSW would (a) by June 30,
1988 employ a suitable consulting firm, satisfactory to IDA, to assist in
the design and implementation of a training program for KSW staff; and (b)
submit its proposed program for staff training to IDA for review and
coment no later than September 30, 1988. Quantitative measures of
progress on training and localization of staff positions would be monitored
by IDA under Annual Work Program reviews (para 4.15).
Outarower Develolment Scheme
4.11     KSW would enter into agreements with individual outgrowers
(totalling about 1,400 at full development) whereby the company would
undertake to provide services for land cultivation, planting materials and
inputs and to buy the outgrower's cane. The outgrower would agree to clear
the land and to cultivate and maintain a cane crop on a minimum area of 2
ha and on harvest arrange for transport of his cane to KSW's factory.   KSW
would have cane transport capacity available to meet part of the
outgrowers' requirements so as to prevent disruptions in the delivery of
outgrower's cane to the factory. Services and materials would be extended
on a credit basis; short term for recurrent inputs and long term for land
preparation and planting material. Charges for use of agricultural
equipment would be on cost basis and debited to the outgrower's account.
The outgrower would be paid for delivered cane according to a proportion of
the value of the extracted sugar content of the cane (para 5.16).



_ 30 -
4.12     KSW's Agricultural Division includes an Outgrowers Department
(OD), headed by an Outgrower Manager. OD would be responsible for
planning, developing, coordinating and regulating outgrowers cane supply to
suit the factory requirements. These responsibilities would include (a)
identification of farmers willing to become outgrowers; (b) survey of the
proposed outgrower's farm; (c) selection and registration of outgrowers;
(d) advising outgrowers on use of cane variety, timing of planting and
appropriate atricultural practices; (e) organizing the extension of
services ar   Alivery of seed cane and inputs; and (f) sampling and testing
the outgrowers' sugar cane and based thereon issuing harvesting permits.
4.13     Outtrower Road Maintenance.  The assumption by KSW of the
responsibility for maintaining outgrower roads has been agreed by the
Government on the understanding that such an arrangement would be temporary
during the project implementation period and with responsibility
subsequently reverting back to the Local District Administration. At that
time the resources available to this agency would have been strengthened to
ensure continuous upkeep of outgrower roads. The capital cost of the road
maintenance equipment would be funded as a Government grant to KSW. The
outgrowers access roads are public roads and the benefits of maintenance
would extend beyond those associated with cane transport and delivery of
Inputs. Part of the recurrent road maintenance costs (50 percent) would
therefore be recovered by KSW from the outgrowers and the balance be funded
by the Government to ISW. RSW would for this purpose keep full accounting
records for the expenses involved. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would reimburse RSW for the part of recurrent road maintenance
expenditures which RSW would not recover from outgrowers.
Implementation Schedule
4.14     Rehabilitation of the Kakira complex is ongoing (para. 2.09).  The
factory would be rehabilitated to an interim capacity of 1,500 tdc by mid-
1988 and to full capacity by the end of 1989, i.e., during the third
project year. During the second project year the factory would go into
operation for about six months to crush standing cane. Recovery and
planting of abandoned lands would be completed over four years.
Rehabilitation of infrastructure would be phased over the project period.
Annual Work Programs
4.CI     Annual Work Programs (AfPs) acceptable to IDA would be a key
project implementation mechanism and cover all KSW components (Annex 8).
They would contain: (i) a review of project progress in the current year;
(Ci) a description of project activities in the forthcoming year, including
objectives, production targets, and deployment of equipment and staff;
(iii) detailed requirements of equipment, supplies and manpower; (iv) a
review of staff development and training and proposals for the forthcoming
year; (v) a budget covering project and non-project operations; (vi) a
financing plan including foreign and local costs and sources of funds; and
(vii) a marketing plan and proposed agreement with FBL for sale of sugar
(para 5.10). Principal issues to be addressed would include the physical,
financial and management performance of KSW, cane prices to outgrowers,
availability of and compensation packages for company and harvesting labor,



- 31 -
and progress in the replacement of expatriate staff by Ugandan nationals.
Assurances were obtained that RSW management would submit a draft AWP for
the period up to April 30, 1989 to IDA for review and comment by
April 1, 1988 and that subsequent draft AWPs would be furnished to IDA for
review by January 1 each year.
Mid-Term Review
4.16     A project mid-term review would be conducted jointly oy X(SW, 00U
and the financing agencies not later than December 31, 1990. The purpose
of this review would be to assess project performance and to resolve
technical or institutional issues that may arise. Issues to be covered
would include: (i) progress in achieving production targets; (ii)
managerial and financial performance of KSW; (iii) adequacy of prevailing
sugar prices, KSW administration of outgrower payments, and marketing
arrangements and progress towards decontrol; (iv) adequacy of manpower
availability and training arrangements; (v) progress towards replacing
expatriate staff with Ugandan nationals; and (vi) utilization of surplus
molasses. RSW would submit a Mid-Term Progress Report to IDA covering the
above areas, no later than two months prior to the scheduled review.
Assurances that the above arrangements be followed were obtained from KSW
and the Government during negotiations.
Monitorint. Evaluation and Reporting
4.17     The PIU would have the responsibility for monitoring, evaluation
and reporting of the RSW components.  Monitoring would be carried out
principally through the AWP mechanism and the mid-term review. Particular
attention would be given to achieving the yield, recovery and output
targets, cost-effective production techniques, and financial performance.
Specifically, the Factory Hanager would liaise with the Sugar Technologist
and Chemist on factory operations and recovery rates; the Agricultural
Manager with the Field Managers and Agronomist on yields, cultivation
practices and research; the Personnel/Financing Manager with the Principal
Training Officer on setting and monitoring training targets by number and
skill level of staff; and the Financial Controller will liaise with the
cost centers on assessing the achievement of financial targets. The
Finance Division would organize accounts for costing, budgeting and
forecasting, revenue and expenditure control, stores and accounts
receivable and payable. The PIU would furnish IDA with quarterly progress
reports in a format satisfactory to IDA and prepare a project completion
report within six months of project completion. The above arrangements
were agreed during negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICING
A. Sugar Production
5.01     The agricultural development program involves recovery of estate
lands and associated planting of new cane over four years; reactivation of
the irrigation system allowing for harvesting of irrigated cane starting in
year four; and development of outgrower cane production over five years.



- 32 -
Table 5.1 Summary of KSW's Agricultuzal Development Proaraml/
Yr. 1   Yr. 2   Yr. 3   Yr. 4   Yr. 5   Yr. 6   Yr.10
87188   88189   89/90   90191   91/92   92/93   96/97
Area Planted (ha)
Estate                      1056     1600    1850    1950    1534    1451    1600
Outgrowers                   200      650      650     650     650      650     650
Area Harvested (ha)
Estate                       251     1299    2839    3032    4197    4779    4800
Outgrowers                    -        40      364     765    1117    1668    2600
Yields (average, (tc/ha)
Estate, non-irrigated         81       81      100     105      108     112     112
Estate, irrigated                                      127     132      135     135
Outgrowers                             90       87      82      87       91      94
Cane Production (tc)
Estate                     2470021 121600  306000  373400  497900  571300  576300
Outgrowers                   -       3600   40500   79500  120500  167800  243700
Cane Used for
Killing (tc)               -     108300  327600  433300  602100  723400  803200
Rendement (Z)                         7.2      8.3     9.0      9.4    10.0    10.5
Sutar Outwut                 -       7800   27200   39000   56600   72300   84300
1/ Details in Annex 2
2/ Cane unfit for milling to be used for jaggery production and seed
5.02     As shown in Table 5.1 total estate cane harvested would increase
from 25,000 toy in 1987/88 to 576,000 tcy at steady state in 1996/97.
Outgrowers cane production is projected to increase from 4,000 tcy in
1988/89 to 245,000 tcy. Thus, total cane availability at steady state is
projected at 820,000 tcy. After satisfying cane seed requirements this
would result in 803,000 tcy being available for milling, enabling production
of about 85,000 tey. Without rehabilitation of the Kakira complex no sugar
production would take place and presently standing estate cane would be
harvested for production of jaggery, sold off or discarded. The amounts of
sugar projected above therefore represent incremental sugar production.
Yields and Cane Production
5.03     The average estate cane yield is expected to increase gradually to
123 tc/ha of harvested land. This is equivalent to slightly less than 80
percent of the average achieved during Kakira's most productive period 1961
to 1971. Similarly, average cane yields on outgrower plots are projected to
reach 94 tc/ha, equivalent to 80 percent of the historic4l average and 75
percent of the average yield targeted for estate cane. The build up of



- 33 -
yields would take four years from planting on estate land and five years on
outgrovers' plots. It would primarily result from improved supply of
inputs, especially fertilizers and herbicides. In the long run, the
introduction of new cane varieties and associated agronomic research are
expected to have further impact on cane yields.
5.04     The target yields have been set at conservative levels for three
reasons.   First, the historical yields were sustained by an intensive
cultivation system, involving high levels of inputs of management, machinery
and labour. The escalation of energy related costs in machinery and
consumables requires that lower levels of energy expensive inputs be used in
future cane production. A more conventional and lower cost system of
agricultural operations is therefore proposed. Such a system will result in
some yield reduction. Secondly, analysis of rainfall records show that the
average annual effective rainfall for the 20 month plant crop period drepped
by 25 percent for the years 1980-86 as :ompared to the period 1964-1979.
This decrease by itself would translate into an estimated yield reduction of
29.1 tc/ha. Thirdly, analysis of water use efficiency at Kakira during its
peak period of production confirms that overall management standards were at
a higher level than what is normally attained on African estates today.
5.05     Sugar Production.  Crushing of cane is scheduled to start in July
1988 following the completion of the rehabilitation of the factory to an
interim capacity of 1,500 tcd. All standing mature cane (108,000 tons)
would then be milled before closing of the factory in December 1988 for
rehabilitation up to a capacity of 3,000 tcd. This second phase is
scheduled to be completed in December 1989, allowing the factory to crush
328,000 tc for a total of 27,200 ts during the third project year.
Thereafter capacity utilization of the factory would gradually build up as
cane availability increases in response to the planting of new areas and
enhanced yields. Because of the improvements and stable rates of cane
supply, the rendement would increase from 7.2 percent during the second
project year to 10.5 percent after six years when production would stabilize
at 85,000 tsy.
Cost of Production
5.06     Estimates of production costs at full development have been
developed on the basis of past experience at Kakira, similar operations in
Kenya and the investment program outlined in Chapter III. The unit cost of
production projected at US$253/ton at steady state (Table 5.2) is within the
lower range of sugar producers in Eastern Africa. During the first five
years of operations average cost of production will be in excess of
US$300/ton pending investments in earlier years paying off in increased cane
supply.



- 34 -
Table 5.2 Estimated Average Cost of Production at Full Develorment
(USS/ton sugar. Constant 87 S)
Agriculture    Factory        Admin.    Total
Variable Costs                108           41            -         149
Fized C.osts (ezl.
depreciation)                17          11             31         59
Total (ezcl. deprec.)         125           52            31        208
Total (IrlA. deprec.)                                               253
B. Domestic Demand and Production Capacity
5.07     Forecasting demand for sugar in Uganda is difficult, given the
abnormal economic and market conditions which have long prevailed. With the
expected general improvement in the Ugandan economy resulting in an increase
in real income levels therq would be a recovery in demand. Projections in
Annez 5 relate future consumption to such an improvement and also estimate
total domestic consumption based on per capita consumption returning by 1995
to its pre-1975 *evel. The two methods used project annual consumption by
1990 at 90,000 and 140,000 tons of irhite sugar, respectively, and by 1995 at
180,000 and 250,000 tons, respectively. This range of future consumption
levels is only a broad guideline for assessing the ability of domestic
producers to satisfy local demand. More reliable estimates will be possible
as sugar supplies increase and the consumer responses to changes in income
and prices become evident. However, it appears reasonable to assume that
the sugar produced by ISW and SCU in 1990 (Table 5.3) could be disposed of
within Uganda.
Table 5.3 Proiected Domestic Sugar Production.
(tons)
Year        ISV         SCU            Total
1988189       8000       13000          21000
1990/91      39000       39000          78000
1995/96      84400       65000         149400
5.08     Depending on population growth and income and price elasticity of
demand, RSW and SCU could by 1995 be unable to meet domestic demand. During
tha early 1990. there may therefore be a need to consider further industry
investments designed to expand sugar processing capacity development. At
such time it would be appropriate to evaluate the justification of
rehabilitating the Kinyala estate versus expanding capacity at KSW and/or
SCU. A premature decision to start rehabilitation of Kinyala could
adversely impact on the financial viability of investments already under way
for SCU and envisaged for RSW. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that (a) Government decisions on proposals for expansion of the
sugar processing capacity would take into consideration SIU's evaluation of
such proposals; and (b) IDA would be provided an opportunity to comment on
such proposals as evaluated by SIl.



- 35 -
C. Marketint and Pricing
Marketing
5.09     Importation and marketing of sugar in Uganda is controlled by the
Food and Beverages Ltd (FBL) (para. 1.09). While private traders are not
banned from importing sugar their ability to access foreign exchange has
been severely restricted. They are also urged by the Government to sell
imported quantities to FBL which distributes sugar through a network of
depots and wholesale and retail agents appointed by District Resistance
Councils and local authorities for final sales to households on a monthly
ration basis at regulated prices. Unknown quantities of sugar enter the
distributive system and sell at prices considerably higher than announced
maximum prices. Although enforcement of price controls is far from rigorous
the present official distribution and pricing system spreads limited
supplies of sugar, over a greater population and keeps average consumer
prices of sugar lower than if distribution and prices were solely determined
by market forces.
5.10     The Government is committed to a policy of liberalizing the
marketing of sugar (para 1.09). However, uncertainties about the pace of
progress in economic recovery and normalization of conditions affecting
demand and supply on the domestic sugar market call for some flexibility in
the implementation cf the liberalization program. As an interim measure a
degree of regulation must remain to ensure that supplies of sugar are
available in remote areas at controlled prices. The above system of
distribution will therefore be maintained as long as supplies of sugar
remain limited and until market conditions stabilize. In the near term FBL
would therefore act as principal buyer of sugar from KSW and SCU. Producers
would enter into agreements with PBL on annual sugar quotas and be free to
determine how they wish to market sugar not allocated to FBL. As supplies
increase, private traders would assume an expanding role and FBL's present
role in sugar distribution accordingly phased out. The above arrangements
have been agreed in principle with the Government. During negotiations an
assurance was obtained that KSW would annually enter into agreements with
FBL, or such other organization as the Government may designate in FBL's
place, for sale of fixed quantities of sugar where FBL's quotas would be
determined, after consultation with IDA, with reference to (a) KSW's level
of production; (b) total availability of sugar on the domestic market; and
(c) the objective of liberalizing domestic sugar distribution. Progress
towards decontrol of marketing regulations would be monitored through the
Annual Work Programs and the Mid-Term Review.
Suaar Pricing
5.11     Under the policy agenda underpinning ERP the Government has agreed
to gradually relax current controls on prices of basic commodities,
including sugar. A gradual return to open market pricing is justified for
several reasons. Overall market conditions will only normalize as the
recovery program starts to produce results. Furthermore, supplies of sugar
on the local market will continue in the near to medium term to be
restricted by production capacity and availability of foreign exchange for
imports. Continued upward pressures on prices leave room for traders to



- 36 -
reap excessive profits. Therefore, until market conditions have normalized
and sugar prices can be determined by competitive market forces, the pricing
of sugar would remain administratively controlled. The Government confirmed
during negotiations that an interim price administration would be made with
respect to import parity prices determined on the basis of historical moving
averages of international sugar prices. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that (a) the administered system for sugar pricing, as described
below, would be terminated no later than December 31, 1992; and (b) the
continued application of the system up to that time would be subject to
annual reviews and consultations with IDA.
5.12     Following the termination of the administered pricing system sugar
prices would be determined by open market prices except that the Government
would intervene by introducing ar. adjustable compensatory import tariff to
ensure that in the event of major declines in international sugar prices,
the import parity price plus tariff would not fall below US$400/ton. Such
intervention would also be required during the period of administered
pricing to prevent importers undercutting domestic producers because of low
international sugar prices. The Government's agreement to such intervention
was confirmed during negotiations. The SIU would monitor import parity
prices for purposes of determining the timing and magnitude of required
adjustments of the compensatory import tariff and initiating the necessary
administered action.
5.13     Prices to Sugar Manufacturers.  While administered pricing remains
in place, prices to manufacturers of processed sugar would be reviewed
annually and fixed for a 12 month period based on (a) the eight year
historical average of the international price for raw sugar (f.o.b.
international port) or the average international price during the preceding
12-month period, both adjusted for international inflation, whichever is
greater; (b) the addition of a white sugar premium; and (c) the current
costs for transporting and handling sugar from international port of
delivery to Uganda. The import parity price thus derived would be converted
into local currency using the prevailing official exchange rate. Each year
there would be an interim price review after six months, at which time
adjustments in the price would be considered and implemented in response to
changes in the international price of sugar, the exchange rate of the Ush,
and the unit costs of inputs for local production of sugar and the relative
importance of such imports. The detailed procedures for measuring such
changes would be worked out by SIU.
5.14     The above formula would ensure that producer prices would not fall
below the import parity equivalent of the long run international market
clearing price as estimated by the eight year moving historical average
price. On the other hand, the link to the average international sugar price
during the preceding 12-month period would allow producer prices (albeit in
a lagged manner) to reflect short term price fluctuations to the extent that
such fluctuations do not fall below the long run international market
clearing price. Specifically, it would allow Ugandan sugar producers to
benefit from expected upward movements in the international sugar price
during an initial period of industry rehabilitation. The formula would also
ensure that during periods between changes in the exchange rate the import
parity price expressed in Ush would be translated into a producer price
taking into account changes in the unit costs of inputs used in the
Industry.  The above system of admin4stering sugar prices and the use of the



- 37 -
adjustable compensatory import tariff on sugar would help to protect the
financial viability of sugar operations during an initial period of industry
rehabilitation. Once the administered pricing system is abolished in favor
of free market pricing as determined by the balancing of supply and demand
on the local market, the financial viability of sugar operations would be
safeguarded by a continuation of proposed import tariff adjustments. KSW
operating results have been projected assuming that the administered system
of pricing would be in place up to the end of 1992 (Annex 3.3).
5.15     The SIU would be responsible for annually reviewing historical
international sugar prices and current transport and handling cost
structures and on that basis submit its producer pricing proposals to IDA
review and comment no later than November 1 each year. The Government would
announce a producer price based on principles acceptable to IDA no later
than December 15 each year for the ensuing 12-month period starting January
1. SIU would also be responsible for undertaking the annual interim review
of producer prices referred to above. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that the above procedures and arrangements
for determining prices to sugar manufacturers would be followed. The
Government has announced a producer sugar price for 1988 satisfactory to
IDA.
5.16     Prices to Outarowers.4 In the initial years of KSW operations the
sugar recovery would be low. To ensure that outgrowers are not unduly
affected, the recovery factor used for determining the cane price would be
the actual recovery factor at KSW factory or 9 percent (the worldwide
standard), whichever is higher. Prices paid to outgrowers for cane
delivered to KSW would be determined on the basis of 35 percent of the value
of the extracted sugar content of the cane. The proportion of the sugar
value afforded cane outgrowers has been determined appropriate on the basis
of projected outgrower costs and the need for an incentive for growing cane
rather than alternative crops (para. 6.15). However, the adequacy of the
35/65 split of the value of extracted sugar between outgrower and factory
would be carefully monitored during project implementation and beyond (para.
5.19).
5.17     During the period of administered pricing outgrower cane prices
would be guaranteed for the period over which the price of processed sugar
remains fixed. Any mid-year adjustments in the sugar price would be passed
on to outgrowers. Once the administered system is terminated KSW would
announce a cane price at the beginning of the year which would be based on
priCe expectations and considerations of adequate return to outgrowers. At
the end of the 12-month period, depending on the actual prices at which the
factory has sold sugar during the year, outgrowers would qualify for a final
payment which would ensure an effective cane price of at least 35 percent of
the value realized by the factory from sugar sold. KSW, based on initial
working experience under the outgrower scheme, would work out detailed
proposals for such arrangements to be considered during the Mid-Term Review.
The Agricultural Secretariat of the Bank of Uganda (AGSEC), which already
has the responsibility for reviewing and proposing revisions to agricultural
51 It is understood that SCU at this stage does not have any inmediate
plans for developing outgrower cane production.



- 38 -
producer prices, would monitor the outgrowers cane price with respect to net
earnings and returns the labor from cane growing relative to other crops.
Any proposals for revisions to the cane pricing formula would be reviewed in
relationship to the profitability of the sugar factories. AGSEC would
therefore implement its task in close consultation with SIU.
5.18     The Government has agreed to the principle of determining the
outgrowers cane price with reference to the price of processed sugar and an
adequate return to outgrowers. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that (a) outgrowers would be paid 35 percent of the extracted sugar content
of the cane based on a sugar recovery factor of 9 percent or the actual
factory recovery rate whichever is greater; (b) the adequacy of the 35
perc3an with respect to outgrowers net earnings would be reviewed annually
by AGSEC in consultation with SIU, such review to be furnished to IDA for
its review and comment by April 30 each year starting 1989; and (c)
outgrower cane prices would be announced on December 15 each year and would
be guaranteed for a 12-month period starting January 1 unless revised
following the mid-year review.
5.19     Consumer Pricint. Maximum consumer prices are at present determined
by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of cost of imports, import duty,
sales tax, FBL's costs for handling and distribution of sugar plus a net
margin for FBL, and gross margins for the onward wholesale and retail trade.
While the system of administered sugar pricing would remain in place for
some years, the current basis for consumer pricing would need to be modified
to take into account the emergence of domestic production and the objective
of liberalizing the distribution system. While the administered pricing
system remains in place, maximum consumer prices would need to be based on
(i) producer prices determined through the procedures outlined above, (ii)
marketing margins assessed on the basis of efficient operational standards
rather than FBL's overall costs, and (iii) appropriate levels of taxation of
the manufacturing and/or sale of sugar, to be monitored under a suitable
future agricultural sector adjustment lending operation. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the consumer price of sugar would be
determined based on principles acceptable to IDA.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. RSW Financial Structuring
6.01     5W 's capital structure has been established based on the following
provisions of the JVA and SA between the Government and EAHL, the
shareholders of XSWt.
(a) Transfer of tangible assets and selective related liabilities based
on the audited accounts of MSL, the predecessor company (para.
2.02), and an independent valuation of the assets transferred;
(b) Settlement of a part of the transfer consideration by an issue of a
First Subordinated Loan Stock (FSLS) in KSW in respect of assets
acquired since 1972, and the remainder by an allotment of equity
shares in RSW; and



- 39 -
(c) Shareholders' contribution equivalent to US$S M towards the cost of
the rehabilitation program, to be designated as Second Subordinated
Loan Stock (SSLS).
Audit of MSL Accounts
6.02     An audit of MSL's accounts as per March 11, 1985 was necessary to
determine the financial position of the company, the assets and liabilities
of which would in part be transferred to KSW. It was also required as a
basis for the settlement of past liabilities between the two shareholders.
The audit was initially carried out by MSL's appointed auditor at the
request of the Government in its capacity as the majority shareholder in
MSL. Subsequently, an independent auditing firm, acceptable to the
shareholders and the prospective financing agencies, was asked to complete
the audit jointly with MSL's appointed auditor on Terms of Reference
acceptable to IDA.
Valuation of Assets
6.03     The JVA allowed for the evaluationlrevaluation of assets prior to
negotiations on SA. Under Terms of Refe.ince acceptable to IDA, the
valuation undertaken by an independent valuer covered (a) the entire assets
of KS1W as at March 12, 1985 and (b) assets acquired by predecessor companies
between 1972 and 1985. The valuer's final report has been formally accepted
by the shareholders as basis for the financial structuring of KSW.
KSW Capital Structure
6.04     Upon completion of the audit of MSL accounts and the asset
valuation, the Government and EAHL, as part of their negotiations over SA,
agreed to amend the JYA to reflect that the liabilities due to EAHL relating
to the Government's acquisition in 1972 of shareholding in MSW be accepted
by the Government rather than assumed by KSW as per the original JVA.
Through SA, the Government and EAHL have agreed on the amount of Government
compensation to EARL and schedule for the payments of such compensation.
Based on the above agreements, the parties also agreed that the FSLS should
be issued in favor of the Government and the equity shares allotted in favor
of the Government and EAHL in the ratio of 51s49. The terms and conditions
for FSLS are that FSLS would bear interest at 7 percent but would accrue
only after January 1, 1992 with provision for capital redemption only after
the loans from external financiers for the rehabilitation program have been
repaid in full.
Shareholders' Contribution Towards Rehabilitation Cost
6.05     This contribution, designated as SSLS, would be from the Government
and EAHL in the ratio of 51t49 in a manner similar to the arrangements for
the equity shares. The terms and conditions for interest payments and
capital redemption are similar to those of FSLS. The SSLS could also be
converted into voting equity shares at any time at the option of the
parties. In addition, under the SA the Government has agreed to pay EAHL's
contribution to this loan stock on behalf of EAHL as part of its settlement
with EAHL of liabilities related to the Government's earlier acquisition of



- 40 -
shareholding in a ISW predecessor company. The Government is therefore
committed to inject as cash the equivalent of US$8 M of which US$4.6 N has
already been paid to RSW for meeting the operating expenses of the company
since its inception. The shareholders have further agreed under SA to
arrange financing for the rehabilitation costs and to cover any project cost
overruns.
Onenina Balance Sheet
6.06     RSW's financial structure set out in the audited opening balance
sheet as at March 12, 1985 shows shareholders funds of USh 28.1 blllion (the
equivalent of US$46.9 M at the official exchange rate at that time) being
determined as the agreed value of assets transferred to KSW (USh 36.9 bill.)
less the amount of the First Subordinated Loan Stock (USh 8.8 bill.), all
resulting in a satisfactory debt-equity ratio of 24:76. The value of fixed
assets in XSW's opening balance sheet is based on a valuation in US Dollars,
converted to the local currency at a rate of exchange of USh 600 to a
Dollar, the rate which prevailed in 1985. In preparing the audited accounts
for FY 85186, the fixed assets have been revalued to reflect the devaluation
of the local currency to USh 1400 to one US Dollar which occurred in 1986.
The surplus on revaluation, about 129 percent of the value of assets as at
the date of incorporation has been added to capital reserves reflecting a
further improvement in the debt equity ratio.
6.07     In term  of the implementation of the financial structuring plan,
ISW's Board has (a) adopted the opening balance sheet of the company as at
March 12, 1985 prepared by the joint auditors, (b) authorized the issue of
the First and Second Subordinated Loan Stocks; and (c) taken action to
ensure that the equity shares have been fully issued and allotted.
B. Proiected Operating and Financial Results
Income and Sources and Application of Funds
6.08     18I's operating and financial results projected for a ten year
period starting 1987/88 are susmarized below (details in Annexes 3.2 and
3.3).
6.09     Income from operations would turn positive during the fourth
project year (1990/91) in response to increased sugar sales made possible by
the completion of the factory rehabilitation. Beginning the fifth year the
operating surplus would be sufficient to meet projected working capital
requirements and to retain surplus funds towards servicing repayment of
loans (starting the sixth year 1992/93) and interest payments on
subordinated loan stocks. The debt service ratio is projected to be well
above 1.5 (the optimum in this case) in 1992193 and is expected to further
improve by 1996197. An assurance was obtained that KSW would not incur any
debt in a given fiscal year unless the net revenues for the preceding year
are at least one and a half times the maximum estimated debt service
requirements (excluding those relating to FSLS and SSLS) during the fiscal
year, including the debt to be incurred. It was agreed during negotiations
that the above debt service coverage ratio be subject to periodic review and
adjusted as found appropriate.



- 41 -
Table 6.1 Suumarv of Income and Sources/AnDlications Statements
(PY)    1       2      3      4      6      10
(FY)  87/88    88189  89190  90191 92193  96197
(US$ M)
Income Statement
Sugar Revenues                         -      3.9   13.5    21.3   42.7   58.5
Operating Surplus (Deficit)           (5.0)  (5.0)   1.3      7.2   23.0   31.3
Net Profit (loss)                     (5.5)  (7.4)  (3.6)    1.5   15.2   25.4
Sources/ADplications
Sources
Operations                          (5.2)  (6.1)   (.4)    5.9   17.1   27.2
Loans                                3.5   16.2   15.9      7.0    2.1    -
Equity Infusions                     1.3    1.7    1.7       -      -      -
Sub total                            1.6   11.8   17.2    12.9   19.2   27.2
lppications
Fixed Assets                         5.0   14.5   13.8      5.6    3.4    3.7
Incremental Working Capital           .4   1.4    2.5       2.3    1.8     .2
Loan Repayments                       -      -      -        -     5.6    5.9
Sub total                            5.4   16.0   16.2      7.9   10.8    9.9
Surulus (Deficit)                   (3.8)  (4.2)  (1.0)    5.0    8.4   17.3
Debt Service Ratio                    -      -      -        -     3.7    4.8
6.10     Despite the projected equity infusion from shareholders during the
first three project years (outstanding balance of US$3.4 M as shareholders
contribution toward rehabilitation costs to be paid in by the Government) and
the five-year moratorium on interest and capital repayments on rehabilitation
loans, there would be cash deficits during the first two years. These deficits
would need to be covered by KSW borrowing from a local commercial bank(s)
against the projected positive cash flows starting in the third project year.
Assurances were obtained that the Government, through the Ministry of Finance,
would release to XSW the outstanding portion of its agreed contribution to
project rehabilitation costs (para. 6.05) no later than February 28, 1990. It
would be a condition of effectiveness that KSV complete satisfactory
arrangements to obtain a line of credit from a commercial bank(s) or other
source to cover the projected cash deficits. Assurances were also obtained
that (a) during the five year moratorium on interest and capital repayment on
rehabilitation loans no dividends would be paid to shareholders to ensure that
internally generated funds included as part of the financing plan would be
available for the projects and that (b) dividend payments beyond the moratorium
period and redemption of loan stocks (para. 6.01) would be restricted based on
financial norms agreed at the mid-term review (para. 4.16) to prevent erosion
of the capital base and the liquidity of the company.



- 42 -
6.11     During FY86187, there has been a substantial devaluation of the local
currency to an equivalent of USh 6000 (old) and USh (new) 60 to one US dollar.
A meaningful analysis of RSW's projected balance sheet is therefore not
possible, unless the fixed assets are further revalued. Moreover, the
depreciation charges reflected in the company's income statements are
understated since they are based on present book value of the assets.
Assurances were obtained that by August 31, 1988, KSW would ensure that (a) the
pre-project assets would be revalued to reflect the current exchange rate of
the local currency; (b) the audited accounts and financial statements for the
year ended April 30, 1988 be adjusted to reflect such revaluation; and (c)
certified copies of its audited accounts and financial statements for the year
ending April 30, 1988, the auditor's report, and revised profit and loss
accounts and balance sheets for FY89 through 94 are submitted to IDA for review
and comment.
Return on Lnvestment
6.12     An internal financial rate of return (FRR) on total investments in
rehabilitation of KSW of 26 percent has been estimated on the basis of
incremental benefits before cost of financing and taxes (Annex 3.4).5   The
incremental benefit stream excludes income from molasses as sales revenues are
assumed to be the same as the cost of disposal. It further assumes that under
the *without project" scenario KSW would have zero sugar sales but would
dispose of part of the standing cane during the first year for jaggery
production and sales. The FRR, which shows considerable robustness in response
to increases in investment costs, and reductions in sugar prices, is above the
cost of borrowing (about 9 percent) to the company.
FRR LX)
Base Case                          26
2?OX reduction sugar price         15
2O0  increase in inv. costs        23
2O? price reduction and
202 cost increase              12
Foreign Exchanae Reauirements
6.13     KSW will require substantial amounts of foreign exchange to meet its
expenditures for importation of agricultural and factory inputs, spares for
maintenance of vehicles, plant and equipment, replacement of plant and
equipment and salaries of expatriate staff. These annual requirements will
build up to US$12.4 M at the end of the project implementation period (1992/93)
and rise further to US$15.9 M in 1996197 at which time 52 percent of all
operating replacement costs involve foreign exchange expenditures (Annex 3.7).
Over the project implementation period the requirements total US$45.2 M, of
which US$7.7 M represent payments to expatriate staff which would be met by
project funds. The balance, US$37.5 M, would need to be made available to KSW
by the Government against local cover raised by KSW from operations. Timely
access for [SW to sufficient foreign exchange to meet the above requirements
5/ Due to claims for capital allowances the company would not be liable to
income tax during the project period.



- 43 -
would be critical to ensure efficiency and continuity of operations. The
Government under JVA has guaranteed that foreign exchange be promptly made
available for foreign remittances for purchases of the necessary goods and
services from abroad and agreed to timely issue of import licences as required
by XSW to maintain continuous operations. KSW's annual requirements would be
specified in the AWeo and SIU would monitor and help expedite Government
administrative actions to ensure that such requirements are met on schedule.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government (a) would maLe
scheduled foreign exchange requirements available to KSW on a timely basis; (b)
promptly issue required import licencess and (c) make adequate energy and fuel
available to RSW.
C. Outgrower Returns
6.14     A crop budget for outgrower cane (Annex 3.7) covering a crop cycle of
74 months has been estimated based on costs of services and inputs provided by
1SW (para. 4.13), labor requirements to be provided by outgrowers, yield
projections (Annex 2.3) and cane pricing arrangements (para. 5.17). Outgrower
costs include a service charge of US$1/tc to be levied by XSW on participating
outgrowers to cover costs of services provided by KSW but not costed elsewhere,
including management, supervision and survey work. The charge would also
Include recovery of annual maintenance costs for outgrower roads, estimated at
US$0.41tc, based on annual outgrower production of 243,000 tc.
6.15     Since the decline of the sugar industry, much of the land previously
planted by farmers to cane around the Kakira estate has either been converted
to the production of food crops or left fallow. Food crops have a ready market
in Uganda and recent studies, although not specific to the Kakira area,
indicate net returns ranging from US$113/halcrop for beans to US$150/ha/crop
for groundauts (Annex 3.6). As it is possible to double crop in the project
area, these figures indicate a net annual return per ha, excluding costs of
labor (in practice all family labor) of US$200 to 250. The net annual income
from cane production, before compensation to family labor, is projected at
steady state to be US$35O/ha. With a guaranteed outlet for cane and the
proposed cane pricing arrangements, farmers should therefore have adequate
incentives to adopt and expand cane production.
VII. JUSTIFICATION. BENEFITS AND RISK
A. Justification and Benefits
7.01     Uganda in 1986 imported or procured sugar through barter
arrangements totalling some 46,000 tons at an estimated foreign exchange
value of about US$15 M. Supplies were restricted by the availability of
foreign exchange and only sufficient to satisfy part of the national demand.
As the economy recovers and population increases, domestic demand for sugar
will rise (para. 5.07). Without the rehabilitation of domestic production
capacity, importation of sugar will place an increasing burden on the
country's strained foreign exchange reserves. The sugar production
generated by the project (Table 5.1) would result in net foreign exchange
savings by 1993194 of an estimated US$33 M (1987 constant prices, details in
Annex 4.4). This contribution to foreign exchange savings constitutes the
main justification for the project.



- 44 -
7.0*z    The projected net foreign exchange savings are a reflection of
substantial economic benefits to be derived from the proposed project
investments (para. 7.03). These benefits would accrue to the Government and
EAHL as shareholders in KSW, and to some 1,400 outgrowers in the project
area. The rehabilitation of Kakira would also create job opportunities and
improve living conditions for some 4,300 employees and laborers on the
Kakira estate. Overall, close to 6,000 families involving a total of over
30,000 people would benefit from project investments. The rehabilitation of
schools, hospital, comunity facilities and utilities at Kakira would
result in improvements in education, health and sanitary facilities.
Substantial indirect benefits would be generated through multiplier effects
in the transport, marketing and ancillary sectors of the economy. Last but
not least the reactivation through a joint venture of what was once Uganda's
largest industrial enterprise should encourage confidence in industry,
improve the climate for private investment in Uganda, and thereby provide a
boost to the Government's efforts to rebuild the economy.
B. Economic Analysis
7.03     The economic internal rate of return (ERR) of the project is
estimated to be 28 percent (Annex 4.2). This relatively high rate of return
for a sugar project at a time when sugar prices are depressed arises from
(i) the relatively low incremental capital cost required to rehabilitate the
Kakira sugar complex and the opportunity to capitalize on large sunk costs;
(ii) the country's landlocked location which provides considerable natural
protection and (iii) the expectation that international sugar prices will
gradually increase in real terms from their present low level of US$154lton
to US$300/ton by 1995 (Annex 4.1).
7.04     Without Droiect situation.  The without project scenario is
difficult to quantify in terms of patterns and net returns to the use of
estate and adjoining farm lands. If the rehabilitation of Kakira were not
to materialize it is expected that the land now vested with KSW would revert
back to the Gover.nment. It may be assumed that under these circumstances
estate land would be made available to estate workers, who already are
cultivating about 500 ha of estate land, and other interested parties for
the production of food crops. Without rehabilitation of the factory, cane
production on estate and adjoining farm lands would be restricted to what
could be absorbed by existing jaggery mills in the area. For purposes of
project analysis it has therefore been assumed that farmers in the potential
outgrower area would over time expand their production of food crops on
lands that now lie fallow or have reverted to bush. The net economic value
of outgrower production of food crops before returns to family labor has
been assumed to be US$200/ha/year based on assessment of farmers costs and
earnings as discussed above (para. 6.15). Similarly, it has been assumed
that the use of estate land for food crop production would gradually expand
over six years up to 6,000 ha with annual net returns per ha (excluding
family labor) equivalent to those for farmers on adjoining lands. Details
of the without project scenario are in Annex 4.3.
7.05     Valuation of Costs and Benefits.  Economic prices for traded items
are based on international trade prices appropriately adjusted for transport
and handling costs. Non-traded items have not been adjusted by a standard



- 45 -
conversion factor based on the assumption that the Government will keep
adjusting for any foreign exchange rate distortions (para. 3.19). Unskilled
labor is valued at its opportunity cost assumed to be half of the financial
price of labor. Sugar output is valued on the basis of projected import
parity prices as shown in Annex 4.1. The economic life of the project has
been assumed to be 15 years. Replacement of project equipment with an
economic life shorter than this period has been included.
7.06     Sensitivity analysis.  Estimates of cost and benefit streams
projected under both 'with' and 'without' project scenarios unavoidably
involve uncertainties affecting ERRs on project investments. Switching value
analysis, however, shows the ERR to be relatively insensitive to changes in
costs and start-up delays as well as to changes in the benefit stream
(Annex 4.2).6  Analysis also shows that the En is insensitive to changes
in the 'without' project net benefits (an increase in net benefits of 200
percent would reduce ERR from 28 to 25 percent). With respect to sugar
prices, the analysis shows that the project would remain economically viable
(i.e., giving an ERR of 15 percent) even if international sugar prices reach
only 60 percent of the levels projected. This robustness is largely
attributable to the natural protection the Ugandan sugar industry enjoyst a
10 percent reduction in the 1995 international sugar price would, because of
the costs of transporting and handling sugar from international f.o.b. port
to Kampala, result in only a 5.6 percent reduction in the projected import
parity price. Similarly, agricultural yields (Table 5.1) could drop by 28
percent without jeopardizing overall economic viability. Thus, failures to
achieve low yields or recovery of international sugar prices are not
considered to pose serious risks for the project.
C. Proiect Risks
Foreign Exchange Availability
7.07     The successful implementation of the project and its sustainability
thereafter depend on the availability of foreign exchange to support KSWd
operations and replacement investments (para. 6.13). Under the ERP the
Government has agreed to introduce and gradually expand an Open General
Licensing System (OGL) under which import licenses and foreign exchange will
be provided to support importation of intermediate inputs and spare parts
demanded by high priority industries, presently defined not to include the
sugar industry. The release of the second tranche of the IDA Economic
Recovery Credit requires that the OGL system is in place and that the
Government has adopted a satisfactory plan of action for its implementation.
As part of the consultations between the Government and IDA on the gradual
expansion of OGL IDA would seek the Government's agreement to the inclusion
of the sugar industry within the OGL system
Replacement of Exvatriate Staff
7.08     The project envisages the replacement of most of KSW's expatriate
staff by the end of the project period (para. 4.09). Delays in implementing
61 Switching value is the percentage change in a specified stream (benefit
or cost) that reduces the net present value of the investment to zero
at a given discount rate.



- 46 -
this program on schedule would result In continued high operating costs and
could also likely become a source of tension among the XSW's shareholders.
The program for recruiting and training of qualified Ugandan nationals for
jobs of increasing responsibility within the XSW organization would be
carefully monitored through the Annual Work Program mechanism and during the
Mid-Term Review.
Ownersrhi Disnutes
7.09     Disagreements between various interest groups that constitute KSW
(Government and EBAL, the minority shareholder in KSW) with respect to
ownership and management of assets held in Uganda led to protracted delays
In establishing KSW as a corporate entity. Formal agreement has been
reached regarding the management of said assets by individuals or factions
within EAEL (para. 2.02); the JVA establishing ISW being a result of such
agreement within ENML and with the Government. There is the risk, however,
that dissent within the Group could reemerge to challenge the present
ownership and management structure or pose a threat to the sustainability of
efficient operations at Kakira. The Government has minimized the risk
through design of the Joint Venture Agreement.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that
(a)   1SW, following the 1988 cane harvest, would review the
availability and productivity of harvesting labor and submit
such review and any proposals for further mechanization of
harvesting for IDA's review and comment by December 15, 1988
prior to Initiating any procurement of additional mechanical
harvesters (para. 3.04)s
(b) the Government would pass on capital costs for the outgrower
road maintenance equipment as a grant to KSV, and reimburse
ISV for the part of recurrent road maintenance costs which
XSW would not recover from outgrowers (para. 4.13);
(c) 15W, through the Bank of Uganda, would open and operate a
special account denominated in US Dollars in a commercial
bank (para. 3.34);
(d) KSW would keep comprehensive accounts for its operations and
maintain separate accounts for project expenditures; the
accounts would be audited by joint auditors of chartered
accountants, acceptable to IDA, and audited company and
project accounts, together with the auditors' opinion, would
be submitted to IDA within four months of the close of KSW's
financial year (para 3.36);
(e)   IN through specific engineering design would take steps to
reduce water pollution and would also introduce a water
quality monitoring system (para. 3.38);



- 47 .
tf)   the Government would, by August 31, 1988, appoint a Head,
SIU, vith qualifications satisfactory to IDA and a Sugar
Industry Advisor to be attached to SIU on terms and
conditions and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.02)s
(g) RSW would appoint a General Manager and a Project
Coordinator no later than ninety days after the date of
credit effectiveness and maintain arrangemnts for
operational management that are satisfactory to IDA,
including the assignment of (i) the overall responsibility
for day-to-day management of the company to a Chief
Executive Officer(s); and (ii) senior divisional management
responsibilities to a General Manager, a Financial
Controller and a Project Coordinator (para 4.07);
Ch)   RSW would depute technical staff from its operational
divisions to the Project Implementation Unit to ensure
effective implementation of the rehabilitation program
(para. 4.08);
(i)   to support the objective of replacing expatriate staff by
local staff, ISV would employ, by June 30, 1988, a
consulting firm, satisfactory to IDA, to assist in designing
and implementing a comprehensive training program for
Ugandan nationals, such program to be submitted to IDA for
review and comment no later than September 30, 1988 (para.
4.10);
(j)   KSW would submit draft Annual Work Progams to IDA for its
review and comment by January 1 each year covering KSW'8
ensuing fiscal year beginning April 1; such programs to be
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.15);
(k) a Mid-Term Review would be conducted jointly by KSW,
Government and the financing agencies no later than December
31, 1990; KSM would submit to IDA a Mid-Term Progress Report
no later than 60 days prior to the date of the Mid-Term
Review (para. 4.16);
(1) Government would provide IDA with opportunity te comment on
any future proposals for expanding the sugar processing
capacity, as evaluated by SIU the (para. 5.08);
(m)  Government, through Food and Beverage Ltd, would purchase
sugar from KSW in quantities to be determined annually after
consultation with IDA (para 5.10);
(n)   Government would take measures to fully liberalize sugar
pricing by a date not later than December 31, 1992 and would
until such date administer producer prices for sugar based
on import parity pricing following procedures acceptable to
IDA and subject to annual reviews and consultations with IDA
(para. 5.11);



- 48 -
(o)   Government would maintain an adjustable import tariff on
sugar to ensure that the import parity price for sugar plus
the import tariff would not fall below USS 400/ton, with SIu
advising on the timing and magnitude of required tariff
adjustments and initiating necessary administrative actions
(para. 5.12);
(p)   8ru would submit producer price proposals to IDA for review
and comment by November 1 each year; the Government would
annually announce producer prices for sugar and sugar cane,
determined on the basis of principles acceptable to IDA, no
later than December 15 each year to be in effect for a 12
month period starting January 1, unless revised following
mid-year review (para. 5.15);
(q)   RSW would pay outgrowers 35 percent of the value of the
extracted sugar content of the cane based on a sugar
recovery factor of 9 percent or the actual KSW factory
recovery rate, whichever is greater (para. 5.18);
Cr)   AGSEC, in consultation with 8ru, would annually review the
impact of the cane pricing formula on the net earnings of
outgrowers and furnish such review to IDA for its review and
comment by April 30 each year beginning 1989 (para 5.18);
(s)   Government, while the administered pricing system remains in
place, would determine maximum consumer prices based on
principles acceptable to IDA (para. 5.19);
(t)   KSW would not incur any debt in a fiscal year, unless the
net revenue for the preceding fiscal year is at least 1.5
times the estimated debt service requirements during the
fiscal year of all debts including the debt to be incurred
(para. 6.09);
(u)   Government through the Ministry of Finance would release to
ISW the outstanding portion of its agreed contribution to
project rehabilitation costs no later than February 28, 1990
(para 6.10);
(v)   WS would not pay dividends to shareholders during the five
year moratorium on interest and capital repayments;
following the moratorium period dividend payments and
redemption of loan stocks would be restricted by norms to be
agreed during the Mid-Term Review (para. 6.10).
(w)  ISW would revalue pre-project assets to reflect the recent
devaluation of the local currency; audited accounts and
financial statements for the year ended April 30, 1988
reflecting these adjustments, and revised projected profit
and loss accounts and balance sheets for FY89 through 94
would be submitted to IDA for review by August 31, 1988
(para. 6.11); and



- 49 _
(x) Government would ensure that the necessary foreign exchange
and licenses for importation of spares, agricultural and
factory inputs be made available to KSW on a timely basis
and that adequate energy and fuel supplies are provided to
R$W (pars. 6.13).
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.02     (a)   completion of a subsidiary loan agreement and an onlending
agreement between the government and KSW covering funds
under Cr. 1328-UG and Cr. 1434-UG (para 3.24);
(b)   signing by KSW of a contract with a suitable international
firm for staff recruitment and secondment on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.30);
(c)   appointment of a Financial Controller with qualifications
and terms of employment satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.07);
(d)   completion of satisfactory arrangements by KSW with a
commercial bank(s) or other source for loans to meet KSW's
projected operating deficit during the first three years
(para 6.10); and
(e)   effectiveness of the AfDb and AfDF loan agreements.
8.03     With these conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$24.9 M to the Government of Uganda on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 50 -
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING TABLES
Table
1.       Project Cost Suaary (excl. Incremental Working Capital).
2.       Project Components by Year (excl. Incremental Working Capital).
S.       Breakdown of Summary Accounts (excl. Incremental Working Capital).
4.       Projected KSW Incremental Working Capital.
S.       Inflation-and Exchange Rate Assumptions.
6.       Financing Plan by Major Project Cost Category.
7.       Financing Plan by Project Components (excl. Incr. Working Capital)



~UA'
SU6AR EI3ILTAtIIM PRDJECT
PRDJECT COSt UNIARY
U.*Sh '000)                                   (m  'I)
2 Total                                 3 TOtW!
1  aouein Ease                          I FoDMrei   kw
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchang   Costs   LoDal Fovtin  Total  Exchaws  Cats
A. ARICTUAL  DEVELUPENT
ESTATE IWENIIERY                      M9.7M48 38,855.275.2 39,648,240.0        98     15      z  60475.9 6t608.0       93     15
Om BRE NACM&HIJERY                    176,113.2  5,629,546.8  8,805660.0       98      3    29.4  1,438.3 1,4674       93      3
VEHICLES                               709776.0  4.560024#0  4.630.100.0       93      2    11A    710#0   M1          93      2
OTNER ESUHN                           420,960*0  39389.040.0  3,810,000.0      89      1    70.2   564.3   635.0       8       I
REHABILITATION OF IRRIATON            575.996.2  7o2959927.0  7.871.923.2      93      3    96.0 1,216.0 1,312.0       93      3
Sub-Total ARICULtIUAL SEVELOPIENT      2P036810.2 62#729.813.0 646796d623.2      97      24   339.5 10.4Z#0 10,794.4      97     24
3. FACTORY REHAIILITATION
FACTORY ESUIPINET AND INSTALLATION  7,104.704,0 96s185,496.0 103.990200.0      92     39 1,300.8 16030.9 172331.7       2     39
ENSIIEERIN  AnD SUPERVISION           155764.8  5.036.395.2  S192160.0        97      2    26.0   339*4  W66*4        97      2
Sub-totaSl FACTOR REHASIULTATnON       7.960,468.8 1014221091.2 109.182.360.0    93      41 14326,7 163t70v3 13,197.1     93     41
C. DUSRtUVL
VEHICLES AND [UIPKENT                  67.666,9   tt975.873.2  2043.540*0      7       1    11.3   329.3   340*6       n7      1
STAfF NOUSH&                        3,810473.8  19817,746.2 23t627.820.0       84      9   63.SO 31303.0 3M9a8.0       el      9
ANIIN. AND SOCIAL BUILDINGS           644388.0  4,705,812.0  593540200.0       88      2   107.4   784.3  8M1.7        U       2
SERVMI%S AND UTILITIES              1t22?25,p 2  2.525,154M 338 3,79780.0      66      1   212.2   421.0   63*1        I6      I
ENGIIEER6 AND SUERVISION              305,1.648  2.387t275.2  2,692440.0       39      1    50.9   397*9   448.7       39      I
Sub-Total DilRATUCTIRE DEVELOPINET     6.1O021836 31.412.561*4 37,512,730.0      0      14 U1016*7 5*215.4 6 *11         S4     14
0. rNAN   T AND TRAININB
EXPATRIATE STAR:I                   7.440.075.0 42.160,425.0 49600500.0        85     19 1.240l   70t6.?   68          U      19
TRAIMING                                     -  3.143.0000  3,168,00.O0       100      1       -   SiO        .sO     1O       I
STotl NW      N   A  TRAINMIN          7.440.075.0 45.2B.425.0 S2.3500.0         36      20 1.2W.0   243.7  W7"43         3      20
E. SUGAR IOUM UTT UNIlT                         -  1.812000.0  1.31200.*0       tO1       1       -   302.0 130          100      1 I
TotWam          COSTS                   23.517472#6 242#504690.4 2UM2 22           91    1*  3#922*t 409417  44460.4        91    to1
Phwical CImtinclnti.                  1.2609037,4 15.211t130.9 1471163L         92       6   210.0 2bS3S2 2.74.2         92      6
Ptric Ccntin9ncns                    31,656859.2 1231375W977 t1tS.794t56t       go0    S8 21 26.0 1,316.7 3.46M2         39      8
Total PROJECt COSTS                     56.454,469.2 38R4O3.419.2 43*Wt.J47.8B5    87    164  .29.9 44.23.3 S950,562        BE    114
uuuaab ---m                  -       :04
Dujuktt 3. 193 16:004



-m
c3      3ILITATIU FUCT
Pjt Cgimt" bw Tat
TOWS bag"  Cat1agu_da                                              TOts Indi  0mtntncamss
(  b '00 0)                                                          (3 $000)
7/U         8/39       8/"0      om           Km          92M        To          W7U    18M       /90   s/m    9         m nn3 To
STATE  cumT                         2.66t041*3 1904042.6 18.6.9.8 3.816,13.9 8,74251.2                 - 629t?.7  1,34*8 2,265.6 1t961.6  369.* 75.3             - 7,23.1
3j1       HIIE1T                   4,378,156.4    554455.0 162764.0 2.073.66.70 4.300717.6            - 14269760.8    M3.0   101.7   1.4  200.9  442.0          - 1t2.0
VEHICLES                           3,234,862.4  1,379W975           -   41562.2 130041.0               -  6,8t991.0    472.8   164.1        -   40.3  170.1      -    47*3
OM71 EIID                           1,122.270.7  37129.9 1043556.4   110t      .3   12141.4            -  6245.26.7    164.0   457.9  109.7   10.7  11.0         -   75.2
UHULITATIU W IUMTM                  6.6455.4  4163484.1             -           -           -          - 1I49.939.5  1006.5   495.4         -      -      -      - I1s519
Sub-Total   1CJI28IM  IW WT          2,l757,76.2 2992B4,629.9 21,13,319.1 6,416,813.4 15,597,451.2        - 1013W99.8  4203.1 3484.6 2239.7  621.6 1,41,5           - 11,967.5
Be FACOR    USILXTATIU
FCT   UOMPIIW AU INTAL4 TIU       34077n172.6 101.1032.5 28387t.136.8                      -          - 1-63.82 42.0  49806 20.  292.6            -      -      - 20,026.1
OEINEEIE IV  SlWU3I                 23,557.9  2915,47.3 2,435,433.2             -           -          -  770478.3    356.6   346*9   255.9        -      -      -   959.4
UToal FMMIUT  1AITATIIU               36516,730.5 104,376319.8 3DM2570.0           -          -           - t7l.65.620.3  5.33?.tl  419.8 3223.5      -      -      - 20.5.5
C. INATIICUIRE DEVELW
EUIS AnI iEpIInT                    1494539.4  1#.332.9             -           -           -          -  2#749.872.2   218.4  149.4        -      -      -      -   367.8
TIFF 183DI                                   - 15,2390984*7 19516,848.6  7,313,361.6        -          - 42,670494.9        - 1,825.3 2,051.0   756.9     -      - 4,63.1
ADINN I  soUCIA 01UIDINS            913,084.0  4,364920M7 2.53.1020.9 1.18.52.2           -          -  8.3b276.0    124.2   519.4   26.0   98.6        -      - 14018.2
SERMS AB  UTILITID                           -  29488.6 25t16,515.3  1t955.1   213.M9.3                -  7.9.w83.3         -   350.9  296.0   .6   19.4         -   804.9
min IID SEU h                         443M174.8  1.334,082.4 1,374,194.1 1516,45.4          -          -  466849698    64.8   15.7   14.4  146,9          -      -   t14.8*
Sub-ToWA lF       _M   DENE           2.3557 2 m.2 25.243t044.3 26,23.599.0 11779.114.3   213,s59.3       - 66.330.115.2   417.4 3,003.7 2,757.3 1,41.1  19.4       - 7t33839
D. UUENT US TRAMS
EOTATTE StAFVB                      7,232,9M5.1  16.703,443.5 194,916.*1 18,196,487.9 15,172,743.7 12,900.7.S9 89511.79.2  1.0644 1,907.6 2,023.4 1,762.7 1379.8 1104,6 99322,6
T141DM                                       -  1,325,540,3 1,565,22.2 1t.04,897.5 1099t01386   345,182.1  540.40.8         -   217.2   14.5   97*3   9.9  29.6  6U6
Sub-TOWl 1 1UE  is 13*11111           7v292,95.1 18.528.983,8 20.73894 1t9201.385.5 16.271767.3 13,245.760.0 95.51.540.0  1064.4 2,204.8 2,188.0 1,860.1 1479.9 1,124.2 9,95t2
E. SlI  DAiNSRT VWT                     31,452.3  1,706t257.9   352,903.1 t                   -           -  2,640413.3    15.0   203*0    371        -      _      -   325.1
Toetl PUSECT COSTS                     75.994672.3 179139.215.6 99,443,2.6 3.97313.1 3202,7tM8 13.2454760.0 437.307.t98.S 11107M1 21,315.9 10,450*6 3422.7 2,917.7 1,134.2 50.548*2
De11er 3. 17 16:04



1I thAi31 I i0n
I iii   ''''1         '1''
I l   Eiii  iiI'    1111
tlii- *11111111 T1i
aZ  ,1xi'I   '1         '1''
I   tl|Xt1~II  §
s d 10 |    eeq|     I S 
I   .



SliS!/e0 :31q
8-01    01-l2    1t1S9    *SItt    0-et tI116!   11911    l1U ll          1  11 *-| l                 (F° FI + lint) 'In1
L-tt    t-l5t    t-til     3l12    C        loft     6- 8111    9'M    SI- K     61at                  'J  p1IO1o1I °to131
1-0-    -'OOt    I'C9    F-161   0-8g       Imtt    $VIE   M1-t    flu8          -Ol                        fll3      n "A"-
0S-0     100!    610 Q-6           06'l-    t-1      eti     ItI      -lit     0IP                                    4TJlOiS
0   l's      0'1      00       21       6'0      ti:    51         Ill    01                                     *1'P"d
A       9-68        ! - O       l-  S-CC    t-C t             1-tt    S-tl      o0                                   9t:RPlI
It-     311      61!      Snt      1t5t     0 I   I'll    1101    Ii-           0-0
0-0      tie     r-&S     l-tI     ret;    -SSt    1'i-       eit      -S*s     8't                       u             w9n01l°
0Ol     I's      195      I'       8-Lt     115      1-1-    LIt                t't 6'19                  '      0  1Y-PqS
0-1     8-S      1-SS    0-S        61l     0-l      01-1     o-n        l      11                                 "l
00   II      9'15     I'l    I'tt       115    911-       IVO      I'll    01Z                                35*3IfltIq
0-0     00O    0-0       O-       S-t-    0-1       5'0      t,o      III      11                          "1'03 SUIP    Pal
0-0     t-l      0el      51       11       I1       tii-    t-i       tlo                             "no UqDU  I31tooOq
0O   011          01l       01     1- n       0  Ole1                  S-l      t-                      31903 "TV"1 1uT1l
a-ct    tint   rOt-         ,:II   929      nt-      t-sl    tIIt    51I5t    111                             "1i*1 nn 11-P"S
Ill     61       9-       t-1                        III- 61   -  tltg  t'l U                                        PtPlv
11!     t'S    S-11-       -19     r 1-    1-15      6-n      1-l1t    S'91 Ut                                     u  t113'I
0-0      0O                                                                                                   s 01  ut-  "1 "" t0  tO  3"" "l l PlO
t§       t1      t        tOle     Li -    t-        91       t1       tll          *1   PUi qt01TI tiln
t I-      O'h    s          S         0     s ti    t le      11!tt            0-'t  "TPI qla kiln""9
0       Ol e      -       Ii       12-      t-       1-1      10m 991                                          p03   WolldlI
11      St       6*I-     91       51-      60!    tCI        0*St     6111                                         NIq° h tljO 1°q
Vt      1S        to       &i    S-t-       6     t1-     ti   Ol      flit I-QO "IpIN lUtilUi
01-     0-0        O       Ole                       I'm 00  21-    I1-  56                       41°O "        lih1
wqe
110S    S           mLti    Ot  8-Ot   9111! UtO1t    MIt   Ilia:  tt            fl n n    0t                         MGM13°S
to     eI'       flit    09e lse1 $10 1          S-'ll    91s    I'Ult    1152t                                     USO1@
Litl-   618      8-18t    t-U1 Jt-C l'itS    1       t16   019  13       Nt 391 *1P ll "a4o"
01    :1      ti      Ill      9!       [la      119               fli t                                        t'101P5
00§     0         t    t O  OS 1-t           t-        0  0-t      t    Ot                                            Ntl q  utS
Ole      Ole      Ole              S- . O   Ol  6lltQ- 0-0                                                           110 1-1
Ole     t-t      St        -  III- I+         t I l -         I1       o-n                                           ItO Tell
l,o    tro        U-t-    Ill      9ll      tfli      Ilo-    Ill      tIl                                          1UOJIqO
O        0-0      ilo      O-      0'1      $        IO       0        06 :1 3apuDg I1Moto UUg 15
S1o-             O-t Itt   l-0t0 191 o-     -t        13      0*211 tIO 9o fa  Iwpl                                          g
5e6!    WIo      W"1 ti/togi t/             W     i s*tOs   Ose         Wu         01/1  111'                          i 31U
0!~ ~ ~ ~ ~~lt 6tP° 9  1    0        5        t        2151 141LIOS4
# wt %UL                          LaIfOI I OInIl 'IIII llS
I XYSUUV 



- 55
Anmex 1
Table 5
UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inflation and Exchanae Rate Assumptions
87/88   88/89   89190   90191   91192   92193
International
Inflation (2)              2.3     1.0      1.0     1.8     3.5     3.5
Domestic Inflation (2)      87.4    24.3    14.4    10.0    10.0    10.0
Constant Purchasing Parity
Exchange Rate
USh (old) per US$        6842    8404    9516   10323   10996   11679
USh (new) per US$        68.4    84.0    95.2   103.2   110.0   116.8



ji             i ~~~~I IZ     !I11
I 1 jI II      X 3   1111
i3        SAN§          i1
so         t^X1    i I          Mii1
I                   iiIzi]   X11]
X    u   



Finasle   Plan 0 Pai,t cawt  mts
(1  100)
la (Ct*    InA (Ct.    NA (Ms                        WEC             Ono
124 )       13-)    1434-41)        Nh cm)    IEUELOEIT Ftl  114.W     1            MN LTI.       Tota                  Loca
(E~m1 hiu. I
b_Sat  I   Smat  I   Awstt I    AMA    I             hmut    I       kmm       2   'oil  I    kmat   I   Fer.fxch. Tns)   Tom
ESTAIII                               629.2 8.7   710.0 9.8       -   -        -    -          -     -   5t6997  78.7   200  28     39   14.3    743          200.1    -  -
_UTOMB    E1rT                         63.0 3,9       -                                  1517.7  93.3          -     -    45*4 2.8  1.426*0  3.2    1,04    454
Mor11s                                46.34 54.7      -   -       -   -        -    -      366.2  432          -     -    176 21    6J.3  1.7          8.    1.6            -
amR   ENt                                -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -          -     -       t2.1  94.5    41.1 5.5     5.2  1.5        637.   115.3
WIWATMU   I Iw = TUUy                    -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -          -     -   1407,7  91.7    94.2 6.3  1M51.9  340   1,3iOS   1414              -
Tald AME        L M.E      lMt         1,155.7 9.7   710.0   .      -   -         -    -   1     9  15.7   7419.6  65.3   398.4 3.3 ll.5 23.7   U1           J.   519.8
t. FAtUr tIIITATMI
FACT  EWIFiT MM  lUTI.LAUT          1,757.3 8.8 3900.5 15.3       -   - 15014.0 75.0           -     -         -     -   t1.8  0.9 2t,026.1 19.6   17?86.1 2,129.9          -
US  *18UAn          8ON                  -   -        -   -  337,1n5.1    600.5  2.6           -     -         -     -    21.  2.3    9.4   1.9         95.6    21.8
Ib-toal FACTIST E_lUtATII              1,767.8 8.4 3,55 14.6  371  1.6 1              44          -     -         -     -   21.*6 1.0 2t 5.5  41.5    t8,7 2,151t8             -
C. INFAIRIZTU EINBlt
ElJStLtS a-    m tll                     -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -      352.2  95.8         -     -    15.6 4.2    367.8  0.7        352.2   15.6        -
3TFl3?1                                  -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -   4*633.1 100.0          -     -       -   -  4#3.1  9.2    396.  It .0               -
M111   IID  IILD                        -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -       ,2 1000            -     -            - -102  2.0            4.2   1s9.0        -
/10310 UTllT                            -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -      10- 80409 100e                    -   -      R .9 1.6        4       346.1       -
E DIII   SWERWSIM                        -   -        -   -       -   -        -    -      514.8 10.0          -     -       -   -    5144  1.,         42.8    02.1
b-TOWl D      SIM                                                                            M5T  -   -  -   -  -   -  -    -   733    9.8  -  -    1.6 0.2  7.339  14.5    5,6891 140.7  -
AlRtAI STW S                             -   -        -   -       -   -  75.0  792             -     -         -     - 191*   9            6  18.4    7,30 1,9274           -
TIll                                          -       -   -       -   -    60M.6100.0          -     -         -     -       -   -      060.6  1.2     6086        -        -
-T     IWE            An Two=               -   -       -   -       -   -  7h993.6  80.5         -      -         -     - 1v937.4 19.5  9,*91.2 19.6    7.9936 1.W.6           -
t. 921313USIRT  illt                        -   -        -   -      -   -  3ZS.1  100.0           -     -         -     -       -   -    3.1  0.6 *2.1                -        - 1d
Totl D1abusm                            2,93S  5.8 3.765.5 7.4  37.1  0.7 2391.2 4743   9207.1  18.2   74t1.6  15   2462.1 S.1 505432 100.    42b39J 6,219                       -
miP         m..xcldes                                -     mm        . mtalmorkignc-ima-
110?!:  P1a  excludes inermeal wo?klg  capital.



58 -
Annex 2
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHIUT PROGRAM
2.1    Summary of Estate Agricultural Development Program.
2.2    Areas of Estate and Outgrovers' Cane Harvested.
2.3    Projected Agricultural Yields.
2.4    Quantity of Estate and Outgrowerst Cane Harvested.



- 59 -
AnuX 2.1
I   IEEWILITATIS PUECt
Suary of  stte Atgricultral bvl_mt Pro
(ha)
ProijtYear                                      1         2        3        4         5        &        7         6        9      .10-
KI F                         5/MM    WV       V/ia     IBM9    1990    90m          91192    92193    931       9         5/94   9/97-
Ara at Selinnng Yea
Planted cma                   373       0      1275      1337     20       305      24        2704    '2421      2421     2570     2570
in lIst ratoon               2S5       257      350      543      1017     134      27       2M0       3024     2         2403     2403
in 2nd ratoo                 346       202      1         a        415     1002      1400     236      24                 2271     2031
in 3rd ratmn                 342       174      m        .86         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Total Standing Ca  Ar        1314     1513     2005     2549      4030     5502     7110      79       79       7744      7444     7210
ktivity bring Year
Are planted                   574      S14     1054      I40      1650     1950      154      1451     140       140      1400     140
Plant cane harvested           69      119      m        31U      1400     2030      1604     173      1400      1451     100      1400
Ist ratoon harmested           13       26       29      357      1053      640      1660     1570     16       1634      160      160
2nd ratou hrvemted             21       43        0       25       364      342       I11     1475    Il4      1900      164      1600
3rd ratmm  harmttd            a         22        0       lb         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
Total ar     rested           191      210      251      1299     2339     3032     41I       4779     S203     4965      5034     400
Ae cleared of old cne /a
Plant ca                       0               272
Ist rato-   54                                   0
2nd retmun                  134               .131
3rd ratoon                   101               109
Total aren ctlred           291                512
A'   at End of Year
Planted cane                  63      1275     1637     204       3054     2974     2704      2421     2421     2570      2570     2570
is 1st ratoui                257       350      543     1017      1364     273      240    302         2764     2403      2603     2603
in 2nd ratm                  202       185       33      415      1002     1400     2349      2464     2531     2271      2037     2037
i 3rd ratoon                 174       1         86        0
total Standing Cn  Ara    1513        2005     2549     406       5502     7110     7933      79       7744     7444      7210     7210
Ar   noder falluo (nd)      6422      5930     5366     3697      2433      S25         2       26      191      491       725      725
a  ca   not suitable for silling
or jagry prodetioo



- 60 -
Annex 2.2
6JJOIDA
SUGAR B1UABILITAUOIO PIOJICI
iras of Istate aid Outgrower Caue lartested
Project Year                         1        2         3         4         5        6         1         8         9        10-
sn  n1 8188    68/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96   96/97-
. ....................................... .. . ...... ......... ..... ......... *.......... ..................... .... .... ... ......... ........... .......... 
Istats
Irrigited Areas
Plat cme                                                        120       650      624       518       516       516       516
1st ratoon                                                                280       100       68        630       603      5l1
Snd ratooo                                                                                    540       589       633      518
Subtotal                                                         120       910     1324      11714    1tl        1812      1128
oa-Irrigated Aroa
Plant Ca                           494       831      1400      1310      1156     1110      1024      12 4       1024    1024
lot ratoon                          29       351      1053      660      1420       810      1180      1128     1016      1024
2nd ratoon                         131        25       386       342       111     1475      1225      1038      1122     1024
3rd ratoos                         109       86
Subtotal                           163      1299      2839      2312      3281     3455      3429      3190      3222     3012
Istate total
Plat mane                           94       631      1400      2030      1806     1134      1600      1600      1600     1800
1st ratos                           29       351      1053       660     1680      1510      1838      1158     1819      1600
2nd ratooa                         131        25       386       342      111      1415      1165      1821      1715     1600
3rd ratoon                         109       86                                                           0         0         0
Stbtotal                           163      1299      2839      3032     4191      4719      5203      4985      5034     4806
...._______
Plait cam                                      0       324       161       801      510       650       650       650      650
lt ratoon                            0         0        40       110      316       198       156       61      65O       650
2d ratoon                             0        0         0        40         0      260       482       65O       650      650
3rd ratooa                           0         0         0         0         0       40       100       540       650      65
Subtotal                              0       40       364       15      111?        18tl    1968      2450      260      26t0
10111.                               t13      1339      3203      3191      5314     6441      1191      1435    7134       1400
…-e* *4.e.................................................................................................



------------  d -  '--------------''---------------------------------------------------------------------------
-L       O1        OL        OL        Ol       O1        19                                                        longs PC
so       so        is        to        OD       IL     *- IL                                                         @OIU1 Paz
001      001       001       001       S6       06        00        08                                              Uootiu let
031     o0l        0t        0oi       001      Stl       011       SO0       06                                    am  I"la
,z,aoz,loo
o        to9                           OOtU PC6
s1       t6        So        s6        S6       06        t1        00        Il        S1                          tootu Pt
011     O0l        Oil       Olt    O0f         SO1       001       16        Is        Is                         tU0@l  lot
ct6    O1l         O1l       Ott      O16       06t      O0I                                                         00lo1O OO31
*0l! P01IDTsq1o
=,ll     Sit       fit       Sil       ITT      Oil       Off                                                       100ou put
III1     sit       Stt       itl       itt      091       09l                                                       toottA lot
_.__.....___..__.. ___....__._._................ ______................... ... ....................................
-I6/96   96/S6    16/16    16/66        6/36    3/1       16/06    06/60   68/088    0                    88/18          lUl"
-01       6         8         1         9        S         1         t                   l1                       1iO08t 0q 
(emau Jo n o101)
8pieTi liutlnollltPi f ol
lOtO   101I tItIS I 11910
oZ XOU9
- 9 -



- 62 -
Annex 2.4
sUGAR  EIAIITAIIOI  PROJECT
Quatity of Estate and Outgrouers Case larnested
(tons of cane)
Projectyear                         1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9        10-
In  IT                           81/88    88/89    89/93    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    96/96   96/91-
.......................... ... ......... ..... ..... ....... ............. ............................ .................................
Estate
Irrigated rea
Plat cue                            0         0        0   108000   100750    96720    89280    89280    89280    89280
1st ratoo                           0         0        0         0    33800    94500    88830    85050    81405   71110
2nd ratoon                          0         0        0         0        0         0    62100    61135    12795    66240
Subtotal                            0         0        0   108000   134550   191220   240210   242065   243480   233280
foo-Irripted Ae
Plat cne                        419400    83100   115000   170300   150280   144300   133120   133120   133120   133120
lot ratoo                        2538    31238   100035    68000   149100    95100   129800   124080   118360   112640
2nd rato                         982       1815    30880    29010    63990   140125   118375    98610   106590    97280
3rdratoon                        1813      5315        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Subtotal                        08811   121588   305915   265310  -363310   380125   379295   355810   358010   343040
Estate total
Plut ca                         49480    83100   115000   278300   251030   241020   222400   222400   222400   222400
1st Ntoon                        2538    31238   100035    6000   182900   190200   218630   209130   199718   190400
2d ratool                        9825      1815    30880    29010    63990   140125   178475   166345   179385   163520
3rdratoon                        6813      5375        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Subtotal                        88515   121588   305915   373370   497920   571345   819505   597875   601550   576320
less:
Ce for seed                     10501    16815    18150    19500    16380    15157    16875    16875    16875    16875
Cue for Jagery                  14231
Cuae disarded                   43838
lstate cane availble                 0   104713   2871C5   353870   481540   555588   602630   581000   584815   559445
for milling
Outgrouers
..........
Plant came                          0      3600    37260    81650    92115    8U400    18000    78000    78000    18000
lst ratoot                          0         0     3200     8800    28440    75810    75600    61000    65000    85000
2d ratoon                           0         0        0      3000        0    20800    40970    S5250    55250    55250
3rd ratoon                          0         0        0         0        0      2800     7000    37800    15500    15500
Subtotal                            0      3600    40460    79450   120555   167810   201570   232050   243750   243750
TOTAL                                  0   108313   321625   433320   602095   723398   804200   813050   828425   803195



-63-
Annex 3
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
3.1        Projections of Financial Prices.
3.2        18W Projected Operating Results and Income Statement.
3.3        Soures and Applications and Funds and Determination of
Short Term Borrowing Requirements.
3.4        Analysis of Financial Rate of Return.
3.5        Crop Budget for Outgrower Cane at Steady State
3.6        Food Crop Budgets and Returns
3.7        Projected Foreign Exchange Requirements for XSW.



UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prolictions of Financial Prices (UiS/ton)
International Price
(FOS Caribbean Port)                    1997     1in       1909      1990      1991      1992               1994      19S6      1996      1997
1. Projected annual average a)                   164       232      298       31        322       331       "4        849       857      868       419
'2. 8-yeor historical *vorage b)                  292       292      238       207       217       228
8. Previous 12-month overage c)                  141       163       244      292       316       324
4. Price used for project analysis d)            292       292       2.44     292       816       324       840       849      857       a88       419
5. Quality Premium (15)                        29.2      29.2      24.4     29.2      81.0      82.4      84.0      34.0      35.?     W8e.    41.9
6. Bagging                                      18.0      19.8      19.9     19.4      19.9      20.3      20.8      21.2      21.7     22.2      22.7
7. Subtotal                                    839.2    840.6    266.8    840.0    867.5    878.7    894.8    405.1    414.4    449.0    486.6
6. Freight and Insurance                        6.9       64.2     60.4      64.7    68.2        87.7      69.2      70.7      72.2     73.9      75.7
9. Administrative Expeane                        7.2       7.7      8.0       7.8       7.9       8.1       8.3       8.5       6.7      8.9       9.1 o
10. Price C.I.F. Mombasa                        406.4    412.4    802.7    418.1    441.8    452.6    472.3    484.3    495.3    631.8    566.4
11. Port Charges                                 24.0      25.7     26.6      25.9      26.6      27.1      27.7      29.3      28.9     8o.o      8o.3
12. Transport (rail) to Kokira                   96.1    102.7    168.2    166.6    195.9    168.3    116.7    113.1    115.5    118.3    121.1
13. Ex-factory Import Parity Prce               626.5    540.8    495.5    642.5    574.         5687.9    619.7    625.7    69.7    660.1    719.8
87/88    _8/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/98         9l194    94395    9Cl# Cf9
14. Ex-factory Import Parity Price                        631.2    625.8    511.0    552.9    578.6    595.4    615.6    66.8    65.0    693.2
Adjusted to KSU financial year
a) Based on projections by ID, Economic Analysis and Projections eopartment, dated September 156 1987; lin er intrapolation between 1096 and
1996 and 1996 and 2600.
b) Average annual international price In constant 1907 dollars during previous 6 year adjusted for ntornational Inflation between 197 and           I
current yoer.
c) Averags prico during previous year adjusted for International Inflation between previous and current year. Under both (b) and (c) It to
assumd that International prices 1987-97 will tollow DBRD projections as per (a) above.
d) Administered pricing for sugar In Uganda assumed to be In plac  up to ond 1992, thereafter, prices to producers dotermined by open marktt
forces. For first six years international prices usod for producer price projections ti the 8-year historical averag (2) the average
during the previous year (8) whieover Is higher; thereaftor tho projected annual average I us d.



- 65 -
USANDA                                       Annex  3.2
SU6AR REHADILItAtION PROJECT
KSM - Projected Operating Results and Intcoe Statenent
Project year                                     1        2        3        4        5        6         7        8        9       10-
KSN FY                                        NVI8O   80/89    89/90    901    91/92    92193    93194    94195   95/9%  %9/97-
Total cane milled (tons)                          0.0 108313.0 327625.0 433320.0 602095.0 723398.0 804200.0 813050.0 828425.0 803195.0
Rendement (1)                                     0.0      7.2      8.3      9.0      9.4      10.0     10.5    10.5    10.5       10.5
Sugar produced (tons)                               0     7799    27193    38999    56597    72340    84441   85370   86985    84335
Sugar stock end rear Itons) /a                    0.0   324.9   1133.0   1625.0   2358.2  3014.2   3518.4  3557.1   3624.4  3514.0
Sugar- stock beginning of year (tons) /b                   0.0    324.9   1633.0   1625.0   2358.2   3014.2  3518.4  3557.1   3624.4
Sugar sales (tons)                                0.0   7473.6  26384.9  38506.9  55863.7  71683.8 83936.8 95331.5  86917.4 84445.9
Price (US$/ton sugar)                           531.2    525.8    511.0    552.9    578.6    595.4    615.6   630.3    653.0   693.2
Outgroier cane purchased (tons)                   0.0   3600.0  40460.0  79450.0 120555.0 167810.0 201570.0 232050.0 243750.0 243750.0
Revenues (US '000)
Sugar Sales                                      0.00  3929.62 13482.62 21290.46 32322.72 42680.56 51671.48 53794.46 56757.04 58537.87
laggery (net revenues)                          243.6
Subtotal                                        243.6  3929.6  13482.6  21290.5  32322.7  42680.6  516h.5  53784.5  56757.0  58537.9
Costs (US$ 000)
Cost of standing cane beginning year.          1151.7  1566.0  2399.5  3098.1  3726.9  4068.7  4110.2  4234.0  4302.6  4495.9
Estate variable costs                          1273.9  2270.2  3680.9  4119.7   N54.7  5321.0  6027.2  6071.5  6562.2   608.6
Subtotal                                       2425.6  3836.2  6070.3  7216.8  8581.6  9389.7  10137.3  10305.6  10944.9  11134.4
Cost of standing cane end year                 1550.2  2358.4  3054.0  3601.0   3894.4  3933.4  4048.1  4307.1  4286.3  4485.8
Outgrouers Cane PurchAsed                         0.0    47.7   600.6  1383.7  2294.9  3497.0   4560.2  5375.1  5849.5   609.6
Cost of cane processed                          875.4  1525.4  3617.0    99.5   6982.0  0953.3  10649.4  11373.6  12508.0  12158.2
Oeginning Sugar Stock                             0.0      0.0    95.4   215.4    2.8    407.3    519.7   617.8   659.3    m.9
Factory Variable Costs                                   763.2  1551.5  2028.0  2793.2  3519.3  4178.3  4449.9   4838.7  4834.4
Subtotal                                        875.4  2298.7  5263.8  7242.8  10068.0  12879.9  15347.4  16441.3  18006.0  18415.3
End Sugar Stock                                   0.0    95.4   215.4   292.8   407.3    519.7    617.9   059.3    722.9   737.2
Variable Cost of sugAr sold /c                  875.4  2193.3  5048.5  6950.0   9660.7  12360.2  14729.6  15792.0  17293.2  17678.1
6ross Oprating Nargin                          -631.8   1736.3  8434.1  14340.5  22662.0  30320.4  36941.9  38002.4  39473.8  40859.7
Agriculture OverheAds                          1349.9  2044.0   2146.9  2131.9  2064.6   2161.2  2235.9  2390.2  2576.9  2791.7
Factory Overheads                               950.6  1452.0  1409.4  1298.9  1254.3   1226.3  1386.3  1534.7  1673.6   1909.6
Subtatal                                       2300.5  3496.0   3556.3  3430.8  3318.9  3387.5  3622.2  3924.9  4250.5  4591.3
Gross Operating Profit/iloss)                 -2932.3  -1759.7  4877.9  10909.6  19343.1  26932.9  33319.7  34077.5  35223.3  36268.4
Administration Costs                           2117.5  3258.5  3581.4  3685.5  3698.9  3862.8   4032.5  4241.1  4564.7  4924.5
Operating Surplus (Deficit!                   -5049.8  -5018.2  1296.5  7224.1  15644.2  23070.0  29287.2  29836.5  3063a.6  31343.9
Depreciation                                    221.0   404.4   1340.7  1713.1  1827.5  1914.9  1653.4  1700.9  1760.9  1925.0
lInterest                                       275.3  1957.3  3579.4  3996.3  4998.5  5991.1  5825.5  5134.5  4618.8  4103.1
Subtotal                                        496.3  2361.7  4920.1   5709.3  6826.0   7906.0   7478.9  6835.4  6379.7  5928.1
Net Profit/(loss)                             -5546.1  -7379.9  -3623.6  1514.8  8918.2  15164.0  21808.4  23001.1  24278.8  25415.8
2#-:                                           #:-                          -=:                             ::
Ia  Calculated at 1/2 onth production for each year.
/b Year end sugar stack is assueed to be sold iollowing year
/c Represents costs of 4838 tons of cane harvsted and discArded as unfit for processing
as wll as costs of 14237 tons of cane hrvested for jaggery production.



- 66 -
Amg. 3.3
-50
1UN RI31LITATION PtONECT
Surna   d Aplication of Foods ad
bterpuatm  of Short Tore krmi  Ruquiruuts
(US 000 COrrant)
ProJectYea                1        2         3         4        5         6         7        6         9       10
KuM F?                  87/80     89J8     69/90     9019      9192    92193    93194    9495        9519     96/97
Source
Hat Prof It/iloss)   (5,56.10) 17,379.0) (3,*23.J0) 1,514.80  8,818.20 15,164.00 21,808.40 23,001.10 24,278.80 25,415.80
Depreciation           221.00   .404.0   1,30.74  1,713.10  1,827.50  1,914.90  1,3.40  1,700.90  1,760.90  t,825.00
eferrd Paymts           89.07   868.28  1,683.32  2,135.61  3,081.93
(interest)
Co-Financier's Loan
AFIMF                 535.24  2$170.85  3,116.21  2,116.60  1,020.80    355.50  22.70     0.00      0.00      0.00
AMI                   674.20  2,464.60  2,764.15  1,416.45    715.00    502.50    30.30   0.00      0.00      0.00
IDN (HEM)           571.80  7,796.80  9,71.00  3,458.00  1,519.30  1,264.40    557.10    0.00     0.00      0.00
IDA (Cr.1248-06)    1,54.32  1,673.46    17.14    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
IDA (Cr.13Ze-)    1,631.50  1,682.80    51.30     0.00      0.00      0.00      .0       0.00     0.00      0.00
IDA (Cr.1434US)     166.60    168.60    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
IDA TOTAL           4,118.22 11,521.66 10,049.44  3,458.00  1,519.30  1,264.40    557.10  0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Co-Finnieir s
Loan                5,527.61 16,157.11 15,92.60  7,043.05  3,255.10  2,122.0    10.10     0.00      0.00      0.00
Lan Stock             1,300.00  1,700.00  1,700.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0       0.00     0.0
WAL                   1,52.23 11,1749.89 17,230.22 12,9016.56 l,6M.73 19,201.30 24,071.90 24,702.00 26,039.70 27,240.80
Application
Capital Espmnditur    4,7.80 14,541.55 13,757.75  5,125.00  1,696.90    763.70    14.80    14.60
Replacueut Cost                                    483.294  1165.*    2560.5   3,126.92  3,424.94  3,63.75  3,724.31
Loan Capital Rpaymat                                                  5,647.15  5,859.39  5,920.40  5,920.40  5,920.40
Harking Capital (Il)   364.35  1,U43.25  2,463.20  2,276.20  1,648.85  1,M.95  1,529.S0  1,049.35    512.95    221.85
TOTAL                 5,363.15 15,994.80 16,220.95  7,884.49  4,713.32 10,765.35 10,516.11 10,394.69 10,02.10  9,81.56
Total Surplus          (3,770.92) (4,24.91) 1,009.27  5,022.07 12,269.42  8,415.95 13,553.79 14,307.31 15,967.60 17,374.24
Funds Drought Forward    332.35 (3,U4.57) (7,663.4) (6,674.21) (16,12.14) 10,117.28 19,033.23 32,587.01 46,894.32 62,811.92
Funds Carried Forard   (3,143.57) (7,663.48) 111674.21) (1,152.14) 10,617.28 19,033.23 32,587.01 46,894.32 62,861.92 90,236.15
Debt erice Ratio                                                           3.66     4.63      4.91      5.36     4.84



56301                                             ANNEA   3.4
SW;UImILilAIOI ?OflCT
Table     lbis eiof Jinacial ate of letur
(US$' 000)
heject fear                            1          2          3          4          5          6         I          8          9         10         11         12         13         14        IS
UK1I1 nT/8 8t/11                                     8     69/90      90f11      91/2      S2/93      13/94       4/95      9/9        3/9        V91/9      9/         99/10      0U/I1     01/02
......................... ........................................... *o_._. _._. _._.................. .......................-------------    ---          --                       -
Opentiag Sml  Ihficit) Ia            -5049.8   -5019.2    129t.5    t224.1   IS6.2   I309.6   2921t.2   2983.5   306N5.    3143.1   31341.9   31343.9   31343.9   31343.S   3134.9
Cital ePsitue  /b                     4t18.6   145.5   13103.3    5691.4    1616.1            154.6
hplcemt  cuts b                                                         4U3.3    1165.6    2580.5    3114.1    3424.         36.6    3124.3    314.3   M34.3   M34.3                M4.3   M3 .3
Icerl lakia  Cpital /b                 SU.       1453.3    243.2    2216.2    164.3    1114.0    152.6    1049.4              513.0      221.9       35.5
ht Iefits befoe b      im
total                             -10413.1  -20M12.3  -14816.0       -32.0   106959.1   11360.    248.3   25362.2   26506.9             9.1   2156U.1   2119.6    219.6    M11.6   21619.6
lcwm tl /c                        -106.?  -20912.3  -14861.0    -62.9   10959.1   1790.9   246U.3   25362.2   265".9   231.T   M1.1                        2t161.0   21613.    21.6    2l6.6
11a:                                   0.26
he:
1 im   Projeted Op14 ig    m l   ts sa  loss  Staessat (am  3.2)
b/ lIn  Scum  ad Il e1atie  of Juh  ttu...t (Ian  3.3)
el tol la" sMt oae        fm  janu  premtiu
durgfiett                                                                                                   *                                                                                       r



- 68-
Annex 3.5
SUGAR REHAMT87=TION PROJECT
Crop Budea for outorower Can* at Stedy stte (SIh)a)
Plant Canob)      let Ratoon')      2nd Ratoon¢)      8rd Rateon')        Toe l
gan               man               lan                -nn
day      US2      doy      IS       days    USS               USS          US8
Costs
1. Lbor
Plantin d),84                      46.2      -                 -                 -                  46.2
HarvostIn?)               a6       93.20   57        76.2    49        66.5    40        C0.2      296.1
Rat*oon Cultivation        -        -       25       34.0    25        84.0     2        84.0      102.0
Subtotal                 102      189.4     82      112.2    74       100.6     65      94.26      446.8
2. Machinery
Cultivetionf)                     1A6.8              24.7              24.7              24.7      210.4
Harvesting/transport
of cane                         642.6             782.6             641.9             588.5    2.8W1.8
Subtotal                          979.1             757.8             668.6            608.2   8,611.2
.a. physical Inputs
Seo"  cn)                         192.6              -                 -                 -         192.6
Fort) Il ej1)                     276.8             219.6             219.6             210.6      987.1
Horb) idcT)h)                      89.1              12.6              12.0              12.0      _75.1
Subtotal                          609.9             281.6             281.6             281.6   1,204.7
4.  Service Charges1)                 120.0            1l6.0               86.0              70.0      875.6
5.  Interest Payment.                 167.3              41.0              41.0              41.0      286.8
6.  Total (exel. family
labor)                        1.866.7           1,242.1           1.124.7           1,.46.0    5,267.5
Revenues
YTT0d (te/ha)J)                   120               166                85                70
Cane price (US6/tc)k)              19.6              19.8              19.6              19.6
Revenues (USS)                  2,876             1,966             1,688             1,886      7,426
Net Income te Outgrower  US)
Total over crop eyelo
(74 months)                                                                                      2,157
Average per year                  856              8a6                860             85
a)  Original data from BAI's project preparation report (June 86) as updated by appraisal mission; costo
and cane prices expressed in constant 1967 dollars.
b)  20 months to harvest.
c)  16 months to harvest.
d)  Family labor.
*)  Hired labor.
f)  Itms on which financing charge  of 10 percent Interest has been calculated.
h)  Appiled only to on quarter of ar".
1) Pald to KSW for service  rendered by KSW but no costed elsewhere; Includes a charge of USt .40 per to
n of road for outgrowr road maintenance.
See Annex 2.
8SX of ox-factory export parity price for sugar 1998/94 In constn t 67 dollar (USS 585) and a sugar
recovery factor of 10.SSX.



- 69 -
UGANDA                             Annex 3.6
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Food Crop Budgets and- Return-s
Crop budgets got *elatetd foodorpe (sMUM)
-a.- e * ns---      _N a 1 a *r-~   Orcodnduts lunsbelled)
C o * t a                    Labour  wchinery   Labour  Nachbinty   Labour     macbinery
Ssh                             12.50     -         12.50              12.50
2la plouqhiag                    -        25.00     -        25.00      -           25.00
Dlsaing                                   20.00      -       20.00      -           20.00
Pleating                        12.50     -         10.00     -        12.50         -
W"eding (2 pe"ssO               30.00      -        30.00     -        30.00         -
Narvostiag Nad thehing          12.0    ,           15.00    -25.no
67.50    70.00     67.S0    70.00     60.00        70.00
Sub-total                        137.50              137.50               150.00
Seed                                 16.80                5.00                40.00
t.tils.e                                                  _ 10.00
sub-total                         16.60               15.00                30.00
Total oot inoleding Labour       154.30              152.50               2°0LE
Total oat noelmdiag labour        S68                ILE 1S20.00
fti. lhg/ha)                       1 000              1 500                  750
Price      (tU$/b)0200403
agrs 1.cmn to$)                      200                210                  270
Wet lnome  ('
a)  Inaoling labor costa          45.70              57.50                70
bi  3aoludiag labout cOs.        113.20              125.00               150
Soe: ilganO s004 Nultipliaetien Project.
Costs and returns from selected seasonal
and perennial crops (USS/ha)
Crop             Yield       Gross       Farmera        Net farm
income       margin         inome
(kg)        (tSS)          (%)           (US)$
Cotton             600         144        n7.5             103
Maixe              730         105         72.8              77
Millet           1 200         120         74.3             89
Groundnuts         380         114         73.5             84
Six-sim            350         105         76.3             80
Robusta coffee 1 500           390         57.9            226
?e               1 300         450         58.9            265
Sources  Agricultural Secretariat, Bank of Uganda, 1984.



-70-  j
Annex 3.7
(Us* H Omut)
Pfl   n2  PY3  PY4  F5  PI6
MM MMD MIDM1 21*A Z mm am  MA
1. OperatlltL  mmato            5.9  10.2 13.4 15.0 17.4 20.0 27.1
low]R1 PooMskdIitUre       3.3   5.3  6.4  7.3  8.5 10.2 14.9
Foreiga         aipu 13 eo.  2.6   4.9  7.0  7.7  8.9  9.8 12.2
2. B epiIIIBnt oosta (F.3.)                        .5  1.2  2.8  3.7
3. Total apezatinzg and         5.9  10.2 13.4 15.5 18.6 22.6 30.8
repIlie ntos
4. Total F.I. zqdzu.intW        2.6   4.9  7.0  8.2 10.1 12.4 15.9
(X of 13])              (44)  (48) (52) (53) (54) (55) (52)
5. Amout et frzo                1.0   1.7  1.6  1.4  1.1   .9  -
Projet Funds
6. Balul eto be made
anible by kGswet             1.6   3.2  5.4  6.8  9.0 11.5 15.9



-71-
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
4.1      Projected Economic Sugar Prices.
4.2'     Economic Rate of Return Analysis.
4.3      Economic get Benefits Under the "Without.Project" Scenario.
4.4      Incremental Foreign Exchange Earnings Under this Project.



Table      Projected gco c Sat    Pricem  (Costt 1t96 $ trime)
(95t$/tea)
Calender  ea                          nT       as         9       Io       91       n2       93       N4       25       26        n
................... ....................................... .... .........  ---------------. . .---- ----....-..----...-.-------
luteruational trice                   154.0    219.1   262.9   2U1.1    285.4    NO2.5   291.2   299.2   303.0   303.0   303.0
(f.o.b. Carribean Port) /a
Quality Presi.                         15.4     21.9      26.3    28.2    28.5    29.1    219.4    29.9    30.3    30.3    30.3
BI3lA                                  16.0     10.0      18.0     18.6     18.6     18.0    16.0      10.0              18.0      16.0
Subtotal                              161.4   259.0   301.2   321.9   331.9   331.6   341.6    341.1   351.3   351.3    351.3
freight and Isurance                     St       54        5        54       54       54       54       54       54       54        51
ldainistratine Ilpeases                 1.2      7.2       1.2      7.2      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2       7.2
Price cif habasa                      248.6   320.2   368.4   389,1   393.2    390.8   402.8    408.3   412.5    112.5   412.5
Port landling Charges                  21.0    24.0    24.0        24.0     24.0    24.0      24.0     24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0
Transport losbasa to'lakira             s6.1    96.1    36.1    96.1    96.1         98.1     96.1    96.1    96.1        96.1    96.1
li-factory Isport Parity Price        368.1   440.3   488.5   509.2   513.3   518.9   522.9   526.4    532.6    532.6   532.6
I[S  IT                                       86/18    68/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/3    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/91
.......       .................. .... ...  ......  .....    .. ..   - --.  ...     ..  .    ...      ---      ---      ---      - --
Ez-fa:tory Iport Parity trice                   392.4   456.2    U5.3    510.S   515.1   520.2   524.8   529.1   532.6   532.6
AdiLsted to SIS 1I
/a Basel c 1BB projectioan Se;tenber 15, 1931



- 73 -
_ANM                                          h.u.A   4.2
IISAR RERDIbilIUTATI  PROJECt                            ?P      1 of 2
NAMIA  OA   VOES - EClN01IC ANALYSIS
M 5000
1       2       3       4       5       6       7     8        9      10 11-15
KU  PROPJCTIONISALES (TON)          -   7473.6 26347 39506*8   63. 71683   3    35331.5 86917*4 84449  93.
PtRCE      PER TON)             392.0   456.0  495.0  510.0  515.0  520.0  52. 5.0 5t330  533.0   533,0
ITH PROJECt  EFITS                  -   3407*9 13060*4 1939.5 28769.9 37256 4406.*8 45225*7 46326  45009.6 4495008
NET DEFIT
LllTDUT FRJCT                   250.0   250*0  449.0   70O.0 1180,0 1670.0  1750*0 1750.0 1750*0  1750.  1750*0
INCEE3ETAL BElooFTS            -250.0  3157.9 12620.4 1815895 275W998 35605.6 42316.9 4475.7 44576.9 43259.6 43200.9
WC*IT  IWESUNT                12337.4  16966.2 6002.6  1630*6  1380.1       -       -       -              '       -
OPRATIN  COSTS                 46M46.   9299 10471.4 1157894 1274.9 13412*0 14236.9 ll47.4 14273,5 14081.7 14081.7
C           COSTS                   -        -       -  455.0  1060.0 2242.0 2591.0 27290  2729.0  P29.0  2729.0
---  - ---                                                                -
TOTAL COSTS                   16993I S  25266S1 16574.0 13664.0 158190 15654.0 16827*8 16886.4 17002.5 16810.7 16810.7
NET COST/RENEFIT             -17243.8 -22108.2 -3953*6 5194,5 12408*8 19951.6 23549.0 265W83 27574.4 26448.9 26390.1
October 22, 1987 17:02
Internal Rats     o Rt o Na  t Btrea"m
N.XIET                 28.232
WIrMUN  VALUES At 1l
APPRAISAL   SNUICHIM    PERSENTAGE
SPEA          U    AUE             gmU E 
31XEIUR          13942.94   1014671.70         -27.192           (B.XESUGAR-Tucramtal Benefits)
C.oSUMm          101.671.70   139t642o          37*3Z            (C.XESUGhIMTncramental Costs)
Nt Pmet Valuo at 0CC 15?  37-971.2
Intral  ate of  eturn   28.21
Coean Euivalmnt Rate of Ratn= a 227



- 74 -
Ane  4.2
?agp 2 of 2
PWll I 111 OF t £ 1 RES Al A KIcUMt 11AI U 1
xEJSa        UP 102   , UP O       UP 5  _WAIX _  MM202    _   SO   LB I WAL   2 YARLAB 3 YA
C#EUSMAR      37,971.2   51.935.!  06859%8  107.797   24600,9   10,0N 4   -31.s90.2   19,75            3,918.4   -99854,2
UP 10         27,904.1 4 16.4   557t7   97M 5    13.839#0    -1245  -2.017.4   t9.w9    -6.244.8  -20.21.4
UP 20         176369   311.2   45,565.5   97V4584    3.672,6  -lO..7  -2.184*6    -5774  -16.415.9  -30.19885
UP .50       -12964*6    1.099.7   15M0U4M0   56t9569  -26t.28,9  -40M793.2  -92.6b61  -31,07t99  -46.17.4  -60.690.1
nOY 1OX      4OH13M.4   62102,7   76,067.0  1174959.9   34.174.1   209209.8  -21oW3.1   29924.1   14W095.6        313,0
WMN 20Z       59.305,6   M2U2M9.9   96,234.2  1289127.0   44341.3   30377.0  -1151569   40.091.3   24.252,8   10,480.1
iUN 50Z      98,807.1  102,771.4  116.735,7  158#684    74,842.8   60A978.5   1.9M5.6   70592.8   540754.3   40,981*6
L1YEAR              - I                   -          -          -          -          -   33.018.5   17.179,9   33407.3
LAO 2 WMR           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -   28,711.7   14,939.1
LAO3YEAR8           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -   24H966.7
BN RATE OF RM F NET STEA
L4ESUMAR     UP 102     UP 20      UP 50     IIWAO   0W   294    WAI 5X  LAB IEAR LAO 2 TEMLAS3EARS
C.XESUBAR       28W234     32.356     36.23      46.877     23.m      1M9"?7    -2.508      20*443      15.915    12*968
UP 1O0          24,212     28.234     31.99      42.197     19.936     14.9W 4    -9.786     17.517     13.611    11&074
UP 20           20.595     24.559     28.234     38,105     16,234     11.215    -17.466     14.985     11.510     9,347
UW 501          1129       15.29      1.9       M2           6660       1.002      UNt        7M94      6.081      4.901
NMN 10         32.7       37.073     41.125     52.326     29.234    23.274       3.047     23.707     18.472     15.068
NUN 20L         38.105     42,596     46.77      58.910     33.347     28.234      8.485     27.418     21.356     17.429
WA11 501        62.558     69.37      73.#94     89974      56.513    50.178      28.234     43313      33.342    27.108
LASiIEM             -          -          -          -          -          -          -      28.234     20.443     15.915
LM2YEARS            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -      29,234    20.443
LAS3TEAR            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -     22.234



-5;
UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Net Benefits under 'Without' Proiect Scenario
Yn       Y2        Y3      Y4        Y5         Y6                   M7-n1
1987/88  1988189   1989/90 1990/91   1991/92    1992/93       1993194-2001/02
Estate Area
Area planted to
foodcrops (ha)           SOO       SOO    1,000      2,500     4,000      6,000       6,000
Net Value of Production
per ha (US$)             200       200       200       200       200        200         200
Estate                                                                                                              U
Net Value (USS)      100,000   100,000   200,000   500.000   800,000  1,200,000   1,200,000
Outgrovers Area
Area (ha) planted to
foodcrops and sugarcane
for jaggery   11         750       750    1,200      1,400    1,900       2,350       2,750
Value of Production
per ha (US$)             250       250       250       250       250        250         250
Total
Net Value (US$)       150,000   150,000   240,000   280,000   380,000    470,000     550,000
TOTAL (US$)           250,000   250,000   440,000   780,000 1,180,000  1,670,000   1,750,000
-----------------------------------------------
l1 Assuming that outgrowers will repay fooderop production over a 7 year veriod,
equivalent to two thirds of the potential area available for cane prodtction.



UGANDA
SUMAR REIAB!L1IT ION PROJECT
Incremental Forotan Exchanse Earnings Under the ProJect
(US$ U current)
Project Veer
1         2         B         4         C         a         7         8         9         10
_7/88     08/89     89/9      90/1       9n2      92/93    98/94    94/96       95/98     9/97
Inflows
Loans from Project
FMoancters                  5.5       18.1      15.9       7.0       8.2       2.1         .6       -          -         -
Savings on Reduf
Suga9  mports"             (7.8)     (14.8)    (4.8)       9.7      21.2      so.W      88.1      89.7      41.6       48.0
Total Inflows                (1.8)       1.8      11.8      18.7      24.4      82.1      88.7      89.7      41.5       48.0
Outflows
Repayment of Project                                                                                                                          0
Loans                        -         -         -         -         -         6.6       6.8       6         S.7        6.7               S I
Incremental Forelgn
Exchange Earnings          (1.8)      1.8       11.8      16.7      24.4      2B.8      88.1       34.9      86.8      87.3
1) Foreign exchange value of sugar production less foreign exchange elements of capital (loin. replacement)ioperating
cost and incremental working capital.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECTED DOMESTIC SUGAR DEMAND 1
Methods
1.       Two methods of forecasting the total demand for white sugar were
used. Method A seeke to relate future demand for sugar to general economic
recovery in Uganda. Method B assumes that per capita consumption will
recover to levels prevailing in Uganda in the late 1960s/early 19705 namely
14 kgly of raw sugar (equivalent to 12.9 kglcapitaly of white sugar).
2.       Method A uses the following assumptions: (a) The population growth
rate will be 2.81/y over the period 1984-95; (b) there will be a real
increase in per capita income of 1.OZ/y over the period 1984-95; (c) the
wholesale price of sugar in 1984 (US$64/kg) will decline by 2.7X/y,
stabilizing in 1992 at an ex-factory price of about US$50/kg (in constant
1984 US dollars), which is equivalent to the estimated import parity price
of mill white sugar; (d) income elasticity is assumed to be equal t3 2.0
which seems appropriate given the generally very low current real income
levels, and when compared to those prevailing in the 19709; and (e) a price
elasticity of 1.0 is used, which again seems reasonable at the proposed
price levels. In combination these assumptions give a projected growth
rate in total sugar consumption of l152y over the period 1984-95.
3.       In using Method B a uniform annual increase in consumption of just
under 2 kg per capita is assumed. Thus consumption will increase from 2.7
kg/capita/y in 1984 to 12.9 kglcapita/y by 1995.
Results
4.       Projections shown in Table 1 show demand figures for 1990 ranging
from 90,00e ts of white sugar giving per capita consumption figures of 5.3
kg/y and 8.3 kg/y respectively. By 1995 the total annual demand figures
would have increased to between 181,000 ts/y and 250,000 ts/y of white
sugar, giving per capita consumption estimates of 9.4 kg/y and 12.9 kgly.
The figures quoted relate to total demand for sugar and at present it is
uncertain as to the relative proportions of domestic and industrial demand.
The latter however, is unlikely to exceed 301 in the period covered by this
study.
I/As reported by Bookers Agriculture International (Ltd.) in report on
Rehabilitation of the Uganda Sugar Industry - Kakira Estate (Annex 4),
dated June 1985.



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
UGANDA
MSMAR       UTATION MOJECT
POECT ONE=C SUGAR DEMAND 1964-95
MErhdW  A                                 M4ETHOD S
urln og      ncrs* In  d emand     Aumn 1 2.9 g wte sugar per cap   by I9
Pop coaIt*           Total                Pop capita              Total
Pqiulotin   Ra ___(kg)             (t)                   (kg)                  (t)
Po"ldtlon  now           Wh r it.  Raw    r  Whit    RnW Sup        Whit.  Raw suagr     whit.
Year    *             asugar    uiva I                 um r   *uvls ant   sugar  *Qulval*nt    scaar
1964       14."         2.9       2.7      416016     88,000       2.9      2.7       41,900       8,900
199t       t0.66        5.7       5.3      98.95      90,69        9.0      6.8      152,me      140,M
1995       19.85        10.1      9.4    195C,00     11,9         14.0     12.9      271,o       296,9
Wet: Assume population growth rat of 2.5X per annum 1984-1995.
(Sour.  SATO, 196)



UGANDA
KAKIRA SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT DKPLEUENTATION UNIT
Scope of Work
Factory Rehabilltation            Civil Works and              Field and Transport          Programs and Procurement
Section               Infrastructure Section            Equipment Section                  Section
Project Planning and Engineering
Preliminary design and        Define scope of rehab. work   Field development program       Financial plan and budgets
fatetory layout             Standards for rehabilitation  Cane cultivetion system         Project finance
Dhetailed engineering for     Construction planning          Cane transport system          Annual work program
tst stage work             Detailed project schedules    Field equipment standards        Coordination with financing   o
Design criteria for 2nd       Technical specification        Transport equipment standards   agencies
stage                       Bid documents for materials   Equipment specifications        Recruitment of staff
Technical specifications      Bid documents for              Bid documents for equipment   Training program
bid documents for               construction                 Bid evaluation                 Bld documents for agriculture
esquipment and materials    Bid evaluation                                                  materials and suppliers
bid documents for
construction
Bid evaluation
Prolect Implementation
Equipment inspection          Construction supervision       Equipment lnspection           Progress reports
Construction supervislon      Quality constrol               Equipment acceptance tests    Annual work programs
Quality control               Progress payments              Operator training program      Documentation for project
Progress payments             Clarify specifications         Mechanics training program       payments
Clarify specifications        As-built drawings              Kaintenance control system    Submittals for fund
As-built drawings                                            Spare parts Inventory system    withdrawals
Snpervise performance tests                                                                 Contract adm1nistration
Expediting deliveries



- 80 -
Annex 6.2
Man-months
87188  88189  89190  90/91  91192  92193   Total
CONSULTANT FIRM
1. Contracts Engineer (Team Leader)
and Project Adviser                14     16      13      --     --      --     43
2. Factory Engineersll                15      16     12      --     --      -_     43
3. Electrical and Structural
Engineers                          11       7      4      --     --      --     22
4. Process Specialists                 4       1     --      --     --      --      5
5. Technical Specialists               2       4      2      --     --      --      8
Total Consultants                   46      44     31      --     --     --      121
KAKIRA SUGAR WORKS STAPF 21
1. Project Coordinator                12      12     12      12     12      12     60
2. Factory Engineer (Process)          9      12      6      --     --      --     27
3. Electrical Engineer                11      12     7       --     --      --     30
4. Civil Engineer                     11      12     12       3      3      --     41
5. Senior Draftsman                   11      12      7     --      --      --     30
6. Draftsman (Mechanical/
Electrical)                    9.     3      --     --      --     --      12
8. Draftsman (Mechanical)              9       3      --    --      --      --     12
9. Draftsman (Civil)                   9      12      1      --     --      --     22
10. Word Processor Operator           11      12     12       4      2      --     41
11. Word Processor Operator           11      12     12       4      2       2     44
Total, KSW Staff                      114    114    70       23     19      14     343
Total, SRPU                           160    158    101    23       19      14     475
Senior and Mechanical Engineers
Deputed to PIU from 1SW operating divisions.



. 81 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
A.
Nos
at Pull
Managers                    B         1        1           1
Section Reads              C          5        5          3           1
Professionals/Supdts       D          6        6           1          0
Supervisors/Technicians    I         16        4           2          0
Artisans/Technicians        F        38        4           0          0
Subtotal                             6        20
Mbnagers                    B         1        1           1          1
Section Heads              C          2        2           2          2
Professional/Supdts        D         11        9           4          0
Supervisors/Technicians    I          2        1          0           0
Artisans/Technicians       P         16       12           2          0
Subtotal                             32       25          9           3
General Manager            A          1        1           1          1
Financial Controller       A          1        0           0          0
Project Coordinator/
Managers               3          2        1          0           0
Section Heads              C          5        5          4           0
Professionals/Supdts       D         17        9          4           0
8upervisors/Admin.Officers 1         12        3          0           0
Admin. Assistants           P        91        1           0          0
Subtotal                            134       20          9           1
A         2        1           1          1
B         4        3           2          2
C        12       12           9          3
D        34       24           9          0
1        35        8           2          0
F       145       17           2          0
TOTAL                               232       65         25           6
I/Excluding Sweet Factory requirements



-82                                   7
B..A& -m                                  Pie2 of 2
(Grades G and B.lw)
Nlls at
Full
Artisans/Tebui¢sa                      233
Labor                                  2920
3153
Artisans/Tecbuiciaus                    243
Labor                                   325
568
Clerks/SecretarieI/ct¢.                  68
Labor                                   300
368



-83-                                Annex 8
Page 1of 3
UGANDA
KAKIRA SUGAR REEAIL-ITATION PROJECT
Annual Work Program
1.        Annual Work Programs (AWPs) would be prepared by KSW and would
cover all Project components. Each AWP shall provide documentation,
satisfactory to the AssociatIon, with respect to the following:
(1)   A detailed description of the work to be performed, including the
objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 1, the schedules of activities, equipment
requirements, staffing arrangements and training plans, and the
distribution of responsibilities for each item Included in the
AWP.
(ii)   A budget for the period covered setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expendltures;
(b) all propused recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
technical services, training, materials, fuel, repairs and
maintenance directly attributed to activlties under the
Project.
(c) sugar sales and revenues of KSW.
(d) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent budgets
with the proposed budget and actual expenditures for the
previous year.
(e) the number of persons to be employed by position and skill
level.
(f) the services, cane payments and cost recovery for aided
outgrowers.
(g) projected cashflow and income statements for KSW.
(iii)   A financing plan, and detailed quarterly cashflow projectlons
including the sources of fund (external financing, shareholder3
contrlbution, local short term borrowing and Income generation by
company) and foreign exchange requirements.
(iv)   Targets for sugarcane areas, yields and production (estate and
outgrowers), extraction rates and sugar production, including a
detailed production plan for the cultivation, harvesting and
crushing period, for the estate and outgrover farms.
(v)   A marketing plan for the coming year including proposed
contractural arrangements with Food & Beverage Ltd. for sale
of sugar.
(vi)   Input requirements for the agricultural and factory operation,
and any area for Government assistance for expediting their
availability dur4tng periods of shortages in Uganda.



84 -                     ~~~~~~Annex 8
- 84 -                             Page 2 of 3
2.        Each AWP will be supported by the following Information, as may
be relevant:
(1)   A detailed staffing analysis, Including a report on prevlous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions, and plans for
labor mobilization for harvesting.
(il)   The proposed traiting program.
(il)   Assessment of the previous years' performance, as described
below.
3.        A detailed review of the following items.
(a) Performance li the area of management-accounting systems, and
a detailed assessment of the financial performance In the
Previous year.
(b) Performance of KSW in achieving production targets and
technical parameters set out under the project, and in the
previous year's AWP.
(c) Manpower and staffing arrangements, including:
(i) progress in reducing levels of unskilled labor in those
areas which are over-staffed.
(ii) progress in mobilizing cane-cutting labor.
(11i) Numbers, costs and performance of expatriate staff
recruited by KSW as per agreed arrangements, and progress
in attracting and retaining senior level Ugandan staff.
(iv) Quantitative measures of progress under the tralning
component of the project, including numbers and skilled
levels of trainees whose skill have been upgraded.
(v) A statement of the number and levels of positions
localized.
(e) Factory performance - including down-time analysis,
performance against extraction targets set for the project,
and progress in the completion of rehabilitation works.
(f) Results of trials undertaken under the Agronomy Section and
progress in the introduction of new varieties.
(g) Performance in the areas of workshop and equipment
maintenance ooerations, including an analysis of down-time,
averge equipment availabillty, and an assessment of the
sucess of preventive maintenance programs.



-85-                              AnOx 8
Page 3-of 3
4.        The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a proposed
AWP would be based on:
(1)   The adequacy of such prograus for implementing basic Project
objectives consistent with requirements of the Development Credit
Agreement; the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(il) the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources to Implement and sustain the physlcal
targets set for the ensuing Project Year.



-86-                        Annex 9
SWAR UNAZILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/ 2
(Us$ M)
IDA           Quarterly Disbursements                      Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year      Ouarter Endina       IE AfDBIAfDF             T;A         AfDB/AfDF
1989              September 88          .6        1.4           .6          1.4
December 88           .6        1.4         1.2           2.8
March 89            3.6         1.6         4.8           4.4
June 89             3.6         1.6         8.4           6.0
1990              September 89         3.7        1.6         12.0          7.6
December 89         3.6         1.6        15.7           9.2
March 90            1.3         1.4        17.0          10.6
June 90             1.3         1.3        18.3          11.9
1991              September 90         1.3        1.4         19.6         13.2
December 90         1.3         1.3        20.9          14.5
March 92              .4         .4        21.3          14.9
June 91               .4         .5        21.7         15.4
1992              September 91          .4          .4        22.1         15.8
December 91           .4         .5        22.5          16.3
March 92              .4         .4        22.9          16.7
June 92               .3         .4        23.2         17.1
1993              September 92          .4          .4        23.6         17.5
December 92           .3         .4        23.9          17.9
March 93              .3                   24.2          17.9
June 93               .3         .1        24.5          18.0
1994              September 93          .3                    24.8         18.C
December 93           .1         .1        24.9          18.1
1  Expected date of signing:          April, 1988
Expected date of effectivenesss   July 15, 1988
Expected date of completions       June 30, 1993
Expected date of closfings         December 31, 1993
2 Excludes disbureements of US$7.4 M under ongoing IDA Credits.



- 87-                       Annex lo
UGANDA
sUGAR REHAnILITATIOM PROJECT
List of Documents Available in Pro ect File
Documents Relating to RSW
1.       Joint Venture Agreement between the Government of Uganda and East
Africa Holdings, Limited (dated 12th March 1985).
2.       Amendments to the Joint Venture Agreement between the Government
of the Republic of Uganda and East Africa Holdings, Ltd., dated
12th March 1985 (dated 19th February 1987).
3.       Subsidiary Agrement between the Government of the Republic of
Uganda and East Africa Holdings, Ltd. (dated 19th February 1987).
4.       Memorandum and Articles of Association of Kakira Sugar Works
(1985) Limited (dated 14th May 1985).
5.       Legal Opinion in respect of Kskira Sugar Works and Joint Venture
Agreement between East Africa Holdings, Ltd., and the Government
of Uganda, by Mugerwa & Motovu Advocates, Kampala, Uganda (dated
15th July 1987)
6.       Legal Opinions of the Minister of Justice/Attorney Goneral of the
Republic of Uganda on the Joint Venture Agreement entered into on
12th March 1985 between the Government of Uganda and East African
Holdings, Ltd., and Amendment and Subsidiary Agreement thereto
between the same parties dated 19th February 1987.
7        KSW9s Opening Balane Sheet dated 12th March 1985, audited by
Coopers and Lybrand.
8.       XSW's Balance Sheet and Accounts for the period ended on 30th
April 1986 (audited).
9.       1SW's Draft Accounts as per 30th April 1987.
Proiect Prevaration Documents
1.       Preparation Report - Rehabilitation of the Uganda Sugar Industry -
Kakira Estate (Vols. I-V) by Bookers Agricultural International,
June 1984.
Documents Related to Aworaisal
1.      Working Papers on Agriculture, Factory Rehabilitation and
Financial/Legal Aspects (May 1985).
2.       RSW Staffing Program (September 1987).



NOTES
a 



NOTES



AP SECTION



32.   3;; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 18540R
i  U G A N D A                        i-    ~~~~~~~~s u D A; N                                                      4 0h8 
UGANDA                                        be                                                          Yo-bon--
-   _ Motor Roads                                                        KITOUM         [
Railroads                        V
-30         Rivers                                                                                       KOtiDO
*    Disfrict Capitals                                                                                                       3 3.
_     District Boundories                                                                                     MOR,TO\ ')
Internotionol Boundaries                                                                                              m
0   2   350  '5  100 KILOMETERS    \NA8                                    _           RA
0 o 20   40   0 MILES       </ >   1                 j 5  APAC  t   >                      0  g          1ACW.
-2.                                                                       ACd '    ,                                                 1
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ BkU                                                 OROR        ISoY '---'-_ola 0o
V      _        lo0~.                      **   MAODENDE        ~        5#U*  tOA GCAtGA                      fa la lfaMoI.ao,o
L'~~~~~~~~ F=f,. . , 00O*f.
seleva i Jf s 2 MARARA~                                                                                     SoX a. aC,o.s, ;i!t  TIPA\
A  A  2  V  z \ , f j- < a | | .; C.A.R.~I   e                                                            2-
Af  SINDI >   ;      7/t    |1'.C't.)f.f, |                      oaY  X
\ AAL    f                                 iT    A  N     Z     A    N    I   A     hUtrD TANZANIA 
j0  tQ  \   RWANDA"~  3?.                 3?                      (AM &                                AUGUST 1B



