Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1893 UG
                  (Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 11, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1893 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1988, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  from  the  African
Development Bank (AfDB),  a  loan  (the  AfDB  Loan)  in an amount
equivalent to six million  eight  hundred  sixty thousand Units of
Account (BUA 6,860,000) to assist in financing the Project, on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the AfDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
Page  2
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  from  the  African
Development Fund (ADF), a  credit  (the  ADF  Credit) in an amount
equivalent to seven million nine hundred seventy thousand Units of
Account (FUA 7,970,000) to assist in financing the Project, on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  an  agreement (the ADF Credit
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
     (D)  Parts A through D of the  Project will be carried out by
Kakira  Sugar  Works  (1985)   Ltd.   (KSW)  with  the  Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to KSW part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and KSW;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.O1.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  last  sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral  part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and KSW of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into   between   the   Borrower   and   KSW  pursuant  to
Section 3.O1 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "JVA" means the Joint Venture Agreement, entered into by
the Borrower and East African  Holdings Limited on March 12, 1985,
as amended on February  19,  1987, providing for the establishment
of KSW, and such  term  also  includes the Subsidiary Agreement to
the JVA, signed by the  Borrower and East African Holdings Limited
on February 19, 1987;
     (e)  "Credit 1328-UG" means the  Credit made available by the
Association to assist the  Borrower  in financing its Agricultural
Rehabilitation  Project,  pursuant   to   the  Development  Credit
Agreement entered into  by  the  Borrower  and  the Association on
March 11, 1983;
     (f)  "Credit 1434-UG" means the  Credit made available by the
Association  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  financing  its  Second
Technical Assistance Project,  pursuant  to the Development Credit
Agreement entered into  by  the  Borrower  and  the Association on
March 8, 1984;
Page  3
     (g)  "MOI" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Industry and
Technology;
     (h)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (i)  "FBL" means the  Borrower's  Food  and Beverages Limited
and  includes  such  other   organizations  as  the  Borrower  may
designate from time to time; and
     (j)  "SIU" means the  sugar  industry  unit to be established
within MOI.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  eighteen  million  nine  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,900,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts B and D of
the Project, cause KSW  to  open  and maintain in dollars, through
the Bank of Uganda,  a  special  account  in  a commercial bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3  to  the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1993,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b) The commitment charge shall accrue:
         (i)  from a date sixty (60)  days  after the date of this
              Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
              on which amounts shall  be withdrawn by the Borrower
              from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
        (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June  30 immediately
              preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
              may be set from time  to time thereafter pursuant to
              paragraph (a) above.  The rate  set as of June 30 in
              each year shall be  applied  as  of the next payment
              date in that year specified  in Section 2.06 of this
              Agreement, except that the  rate  set as of June 30,
              1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
         (i)  at such places  as  the Association shall reasonably
              request;
        (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind  imposed by, or in
              the territory of, the Borrower; and
Page  4
       (iii)  in the currency specified  in this Agreement for the
              purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions
              or in such other  eligible currency or currencies as
              may from  time  to  time  be  designated or selected
              pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1998,  and  ending  March 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors  of  the   Association   and,  after  due
               consideration by  them  of  the  development of the
               Borrower's economy, modify  the  terms of repayment
               of  installments  under   paragraph  (a)  above  by
               requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
               each  such  installment  not   yet  due  until  the
               principal amount  of  the  Credit  shall  have been
               repaid.  If  so  requested  by  the  Borrower,  the
               Association  may   revise   such   modification  to
               include, in lieu of some  or all of the increase in
               the amounts of  such  installments,  the payment of
               interest  at  an   annual   rate  agreed  with  the
               Association on the  principal  amount of the Credit
               withdrawn  and  outstanding   from  time  to  time,
               provided that, in the  judgment of the Association,
               such revision shall  not  change  the grant element
               obtained   under   the   above-mentioned  repayment
               modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part E  of the Project through MOI,
Page  5
               with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
               with  appropriate   administrative   and  financial
               practices, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed,
               the funds, facilities, services and other resources
               required for the Project; and
         (ii)  without any limitation  or  restriction upon any of
               its other obligations  under  this Agreement, shall
               cause  KSW  to  perform,  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions  of  the   Project  Agreement,  all  the
               obligations of KSW  therein  set  forth, shall take
               and cause to  be  taken  all  action, including the
               provision of funds,  facilities, services and other
               resources, necessary or  appropriate  to enable KSW
               to perform such obligations,  and shall not take or
               permit to be taken  any  action which would prevent
               or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall  carry out Part E of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit  an  amount   not   exceeding   the  dollar  equivalent  of
SDR 18,650,000 to KSW, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved  by  the  Association  and  which  shall include the
payment of interest at the rate of 8.71% per annum, capitalization
of interest accruing in the  first  five (5) years, repayment over
fifteen (15) years,  including  five  (5)  years  of grace and the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by KSW.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit,  and,  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree:
     (a)  procurement  of  the   goods,   works  and  consultants'
services required for Parts  B  and  D  of  the  Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
     (b)  vehicles and office equipment required for Part E of the
Project and to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from  at least three suppliers eligible
under the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Parts A through D  of  the Project shall be carried out
by KSW pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower's  decisions  on  proposals for
expansion of sugar processing capacity in the Borrower's territory
shall be taken considering, inter alia, an evaluation by SIU.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall  take  such action as may be
necessary to ensure that the  Bank  of Uganda shall make available
to KSW, promptly as  needed,  such  amounts of foreign exchange as
shall be necessary for KSW to  carry out its annual work programs,
including the importation of spare parts, agricultural and factory
Page  6
inputs,  and  remittances  by  KSW's  expatriate  supervisory  and
technical staff recruited under Part D of the Project.
     Section 3.06. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  periodically determine the producer price of sugar,
               the  price  of  cane  to  be  supplied  to  KSW  by
               outgrower farmers under Part  A of the Project, and
               the consumer price  of  sugar,  based on principles
               acceptable  to  the  Association  and  announce the
               producer  price   of   sugar   and   the  price  of
               outgrowers'  cane   for   the  twelve-month  period
               starting on January 1 of the following year, by not
               later than December 15 of each year; and
         (ii)  by June 30 of each year, make appropriate revisions
               to the producer  price  of  sugar  and the price of
               outgrowers'  cane   to   reflect   changes  in  the
               international price of sugar,  in the exchange rate
               of the Uganda  shilling,  and  in  the unit cost of
               inputs  for  the   production   of   sugar  in  the
               Borrower's territory.
     (b)  Except  as  the  Borrower   and  the  Association  shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take such measures as shall be
necessary to ensure that, by not later than December 31, 1992, the
producer and consumer prices of  sugar shall be determined without
the intervention of  the  Borrower  as  specified in paragraph (a)
above.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  not later than November  1  of each year, cause SIU
               to submit to  the  Association,  for its review and
               comments, the producer  price  of sugar proposed to
               be  announced  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (a)  (i)
               above; and
         (ii)  not later than April  30  of each year, with effect
               from April 30, 1989, submit to the Association, for
               its review and comments,  any revisions proposed to
               be made to  the  price  of  outgrowers' cane on the
               basis  of   a   review   made   by  the  Borrower's
               Agricultural Secretariat in consultation with SIU.
     Section 3.07.  The  Borrower  and  KSW  shall  enter  into an
agreement,  with  terms   and   conditions   satisfactory  to  the
Association, to ensure  that  KSW  shall  repay the Borrower those
proceeds of Credit Number  1328-UG  and Credit Number 1434-UG used
by  the  Borrower   to   finance   engineering  services  and  the
refurbishment, storage and  shipping  of  factory  equipment to be
installed under Part B of the Project.
     Section  3.08.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
February 28, 1990, pay  the  outstanding balance of the equivalent
of  $8,000,000  to  KSW's   second   subordinated  loan  stock  in
accordance with the Subsidiary Agreement to the JVA.
     Section  3.09.   The   Borrower   shall   make  arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  to ensure that, except  as the Borrower, the Association
and KSW shall  otherwise  agree,  KSW  shall maintain rural access
roads, connecting KSW's  plantation  with outgrowers' plots, under
Part A of the Project; and
     (b)  to periodically reimburse KSW,  in  each year of Project
implementation, for such road  maintenance  costs as KSW may incur
and  which  KSW  shall   not  have  recovered  from  participating
outgrower farmers.
Page  7
     Section 3.10.  Except  as  the  Borrower  and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower  shall  take such measures as
shall be necessary to  impose  duties  on the importation of sugar
into the Borrower's territory to ensure that the aggregate of:
          (i)  the price of imported sugar; and
         (ii)  the duties imposed on such imported sugar shall not
               be less than $400 per metric ton.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  KSW shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that KSW will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Memorandum and Articles of Association of KSW or the
JVA shall have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of KSW
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment of KSW or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the AfDB  Loan or the ADF Credit,
                     made to the Borrower for the financing of the
                     Project, shall have been suspended, cancelled
                     or terminated in  whole  or in part, pursuant
                     to the terms  of  the  AfDB Loan Agreement or
                     the ADF Credit Agreement, respectively; or
                (B)  the AfDB Loan  or  the  ADF Credit shall have
                     become due and  payable  prior  to the agreed
                     maturity thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                the Association that:
                (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                     prematuring is not  caused  by the failure of
                     the   Borrower   to   perform   any   of  its
                     obligations under such agreement; and
                (B)  adequate funds for  the Project are available
                     to the Borrower  from  other sources on terms
                     and    conditions    consistent    with   the
                     obligations  of   the   Borrower  under  this
                     Agreement.
     Section 4.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof  shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Page  8
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  subject to the proviso of  paragraph (e) (ii) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, the  event  specified in paragraph (e) (i)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KSW;
     (b)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
AfDB Loan Agreement and the  ADF  Credit Agreement, other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
     (c)  KSW has employed a firm  to provide KSW with supervisory
and technical staff, pursuant to paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
     (d)  KSW has appointed  a  financial controller, satisfactory
to the Association, pursuant to  paragraph  3 (a) of Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement;
     (e)  KSW  has  obtained  a  line  of  credit  to  cover KSW's
projected deficits  in  the  years  1987/88,  1988/89 and 1989/90,
pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
     (f) the Borrower and KSW have executed the agreement referred
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
     Section  5.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by KSW and is legally binding upon KSW in accordance with
its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  KSW and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KSW in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
l2.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section  5.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Sections 3.01, 3.03. 3.04, 3.05,  3.09  and 3.10 of this Agreement
and the provisions of Section  4.O2  of this Agreement shall cease
and  determine  on  the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on  the date fifteen (15) years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.O1. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINSEC                            61170
               KAMPALA
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                    By /s/ Elizabeth Bagaaya-Nyabongo
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,                 10,230,000       100%
     materials and
     installation
     works under
     Part B of the
Page  10
     Project
(2)  Vehicles and                   40,000       100% of foreign
     equipment under                             expenditures and
     Part E of the                               65% of local
     Project                                     expenditures
(3)  Factory inputs,               660,000       100% of foreign
     (spare parts                                expenditures
     and chemicals)
     under Part B
     of the Project
(4)  Consultants'                  530,000       100% of foreign
     services under                              expenditures
     Parts B and D
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Supervisory                 5,030,000       100% of foreign
     and technical                               expenditures
     staffing services
     under Part D
     of the Project
(6)  Training under                300,000       100%
     Part D of
     the Project
(7)  Consultants'                  210,000       100%
     services under
     Part E of the
     Project
(8)  Unallocated                 1,900,000
          TOTAL                  18,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
          (i)  rehabilitate  and  reestablish  the  historic sugar
               production level of KSW's sugar complex at Kakira;
Page  11
         (ii)  strengthen MOI's capability to formulate policy on,
               and monitor the performance of, the sugar industry;
               and
        (iii)  provide a mechanism  to  liberalize the pricing and
               marketing of sugar.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Development
     Rehabilitation and  cultivation  of  about  7,900 hectares of
KSW's sugar plantation  and  about  4,100  hectares of outgrowers'
plots through:
1.   acquisition of:
     (a)  equipment for land preparation, cultivation, harvesting,
          transport and road maintenance, including vehicles; and
     (b)  recurrent inputs, including  fertilizers, herbicides and
          spare parts;
2.   improvement   of   the   irrigation   system   including  the
acquisition of pumps,  motors  and  portable irrigation equipment,
and repairs and replacement of pipelines; and
3.   improvement  of  KSW's  agricultural  performance capability,
including:
     (a)  acquisition of tools and equipment for the workshop, the
agronomic research unit,  the  seed-cane  treatment  plant and the
meteorological station;
     (b)  renovation   of   agricultural   estate   buildings  and
workshops; and
     (c)  acquisition of communication facilities.
Part B:   Factory Rehabilitation
     Rehabilitation of  the  sugar  factory  to  attain a crushing
capacity of 3,000 tons of cane per day through:
1.   (a)  acquisition   of   equipment   and   spare   parts,  and
          refurbishment of part of the existing equipment;
     (b)  replacement  of  part  of  the  existing  equipment with
          equipment and spare parts procured in the past; and
     (c)  acquisition of new equipment and spare parts;
2.   installation of all existing and new equipment;
3.   acquisition of recurrent factory inputs, including chemicals,
spare parts and package materials; and
4.   rehabilitation and construction of:
     (a)  factory buildings and their surrounding areas;
     (b)  storage and transportation facilities;
     (c)  utilities and effluent systems; and
     (d)  ancillaries.
Part C:   Infrastructure Rehabilitation
     Rehabilitation of infrastructure through:
Page  12
1.   acquisition of equipment and furniture for health, education,
training, office, recreational and other social facilities;
2.   construction and renovation  of housing facilities, including
construction of about 54 new  staff  houses and a training hostel,
renovation of  about  350  staff  houses,  about 2,800 single-room
dwellings  for  laborers  and  the  acquisition  of  vehicles  and
communication facilities for the administrative staff;
3.   improvement of  the  water  supply  system  of  KSW's estate,
including acquisition of  pumps  and  motors, replacement of about
3.5 kms of pipelines  and  installation  of  a new water treatment
system for potable water;
4.   rehabilitation of  KSW's  estate  road  system  including the
resurfacing of all tarmac roads; and
5.   engineering and  architectural  services  for  the design and
supervision of civil works.
Part D:   Management and Training
     Strengthening of  KSW's  management  and technical capability
through the recruitment  of  supervisory  and  technical staff and
training.
Part E:   Sugar Industry Unit
     Establishment of a sugar industry unit within MOI.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Implementation Program
Part E of the Project:
1.   In order to assist the  Borrower in the formulation of policy
on the sugar sector and  to  monitor  the performance of the sugar
industry, the Borrower  shall  establish  SIU  within  MOI, by not
later than August 31, 1988.
2.   SIU's main functions shall be to:
     (a)  prepare proposals  on  sugar  prices  in accordance with
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
     (b)  monitor the  impact  of  the  Borrower's pricing, fiscal
trade and other relevant policies  on the performance of the sugar
industry;
     (c)  compile and disseminate  statistical  data and technical
information on the sugar industry;
     (d)  evaluate proposals for investment in the sugar industry;
and
     (e)  generally provide assistance  to  the sugar industry and
liaise with representatives of the industry.
3.   SIU shall be headed  by  an  officer with suitable qualifica-
tions at the level of  at  least senior economist, to be appointed
by not later than August  31,  1988, who shall, through the appro-
priate channels, report  to  the  Permanent  Secretary of MOI, and
whose staff shall include an  adequate number of statisticians and
clerical personnel.
Page  13
4.   In  order  to  assist  SIU  in  establishing,  organizing and
implementing its working  program,  MOI  shall,  by not later than
August  31,  1988,   employ   a   sugar   industry  expert,  whose
qualifications and terms  and  conditions  of  employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.  The  expert shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
