Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1893 UG
                  (Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                  KAKIRA SUGAR WORKS (1985) LTD.
                        Dated May 11, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   11,   1988,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and KAKIRA SUGAR WORKS
(1985) LTD. (KSW).
     WHEREAS: (A) by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, of even
date herewith, between The  Republic  of Uganda (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the  Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to
eighteen million  nine  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,900,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that KSW agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and KSW,  part  of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to KSW on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS KSW, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to  this  Agreement  and  the  General  Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  KSW   declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts A through D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
engineering and  agricultural  practices,  and  shall  provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section  and,  except  as  the  Association  and KSW shall
otherwise agree, KSW shall  carry  out  Parts  A  through D of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02.    KSW  shall  open  and  maintain  the Special
Account, referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement, for the purposes of  Parts  B  and D of the Project, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts B and D  of  the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit  shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. KSW shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A through D of the Project.
     Section 2.05.  KSW  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement.    Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, KSW shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.06.  (a)  KSW   shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A through  D of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes  of the
Credit.
     (b)  KSW  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Parts A through  D  of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the  Credit  or  the  performance by KSW of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Page  3
     Section  2.07.  KSW   shall   prepare   and   submit  to  the
Association, by not later than  January  1 of each year, an annual
work program for its ensuing  fiscal  year. The format and content
of such work programs shall be satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 2.08. (a) Except as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise  agree,  a  review  of  progress  achieved  in the
implementation of  Parts  A  through  D  of  the  Project shall be
carried out jointly by the  Borrower, the Association and KSW, not
later than December 31, 1990.
     (b)  KSW shall prepare and submit to the Association, for its
review, a comprehensive Project progress report, by not later than
sixty (60) days prior to the  date  of the review to be held under
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.09.  Except  as  the  Borrower  and the Association
shall otherwise agree,  KSW  shall  periodically  sell to FBL such
quantities of sugar  produced  by  KSW  as  shall be determined in
agreements, satisfactory to  the  Association,  to be entered into
from time to time by KSW and FBL. These agreements shall take into
account:
      (a)  the level of KSW's sugar production;
      (b)  the total quantity of  sugar  supplies available in the
Borrower's territory; and
      (c)  the progress  achieved  in  the  distribution  of sugar
without the intervention of FBL  or any distribution agency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of KSW
      Section 3.01. KSW shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced management,  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. KSW shall:
      (a)  at  all  times,   operate   and   maintain  its  plant,
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs  and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices; and
      (b)  ensure that the execution and  operation of Parts A and
B of the Project are carried  out with due regard to environmental
factors, including  the  maintenance  of  appropriate agricultural
pest  control,  effluent  disposal  and  water  quality monitoring
practices.
      Section 3.03. KSW shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers,  or  make  other  provisions  satisfactory  to the
Association for insurance against  such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  KSW  shall  maintain records and accounts,
including procedures and records  adequate to monitor the progress
of Parts A  through  D  of  the  Project,  adequate to reflect, in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices,  its operations and
financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)  KSW shall:
          (i)  have   its   records,    accounts   and   financial
               statements,  including  Project  accounts  and  the
               Special  Account  (balance  sheets,  statements  of
               income and  expenses,  and  related statements) for
               each  fiscal  year,   audited  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such year:
               (A)  certified copies  of  its financial statements
                    for such year as so audited; and
               (B)  the report  of  such  audit  by said auditors,
                    of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the
                    Association shall  have  reasonably requested;
                    and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, KSW shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) as
               evidence of such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable   the   Association's   representatives   to
               examine such records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. KSW  shall  make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, to  obtain  a  line  of  credit from a commercial
banking institution or other source to cover deficits projected by
KSW in its operations  for  the  fiscal years 1987/88, 1988/89 and
1989/90.
     Section  4.03.  (a)  Except  as  the  the  Borrower  and  the
Association shall otherwise agree,  KSW  shall not incur any debt,
unless the net revenues  of  KSW,  for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such  incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to  the  date  of such incurrence, whichever is
the greater, shall be at least  one and a half times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of KSW for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt of KSW, including the debt to be incurred.
Page  5
     (b) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of KSW
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
               (A)  under  a  loan  contract,  agreement  or other
                    instrument providing for such  debt or for the
                    modification of its  terms  of  payment on the
                    date   of   such    contract,   agreement   or
                    instrument; and
               (B)  under a guarantee  agreement,  on the date the
                    agreement  providing  for  such  guarantee has
                    been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    KSW's prices  in  effect  at  the  time of the
                    incurrence of debt, even  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues  relate,  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but excluding provision of depreciation, other
                    non-cash operating  charges  and  interest and
                    other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of  the Uganda
               shilling, debt  payable  in  another currency, such
               valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes  of servicing such debt
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
       Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree  and  notwithstanding  any  provision  of  the  JVA  to  the
contrary, KSW shall not declare  any dividend nor pay any dividend
on its share capital nor  make any other distribution with respect
to its share capital until December 31, 1993, or the date on which
the five-year grace  period  under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
shall terminate, whichever is the later.
     (b)  With respect to the  period  following the date referred
to in paragraph (a) above, KSW shall adopt, at the mid-term review
meeting to be held pursuant  to  Section 2.08 of this Agreement, a
Page  6
policy on the declaration of  dividends, the payment of dividends,
the making of any other distribution on KSW's share capital or the
redemption  of  any  loan  stocks  on  the  basis  of  principles,
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 4.05. KSW shall, by not later than August 31, 1988:
     (a)  take such measures as shall  be necessary to revalue its
fixed assets to reflect  the  current  exchange rate of the Uganda
shilling;
     (b)  adjust its  accounts  and  financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses, and related statements)
to  reflect  the  revaluation  of   its  assets,  as  provided  in
paragraph (a) above, in  the  accounts  for the fiscal year ending
April 30, 1988; and
     (c)  submit to the Association, for its review and comments:
          (i)  certified  copies  of  its  accounts  and financial
               statements for  the  fiscal  year  ending April 30,
               1988,   as   audited   by   independent   auditors,
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  the report of said  auditors  of  such scope and in
               such  detail   as   the   Association   shall  have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  revised  projected  profit  and  loss  accounts and
               balance sheets for the fiscal years 1988/89 through
               1993/94.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and KSW thereunder  shall  terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date  fifteen  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
KSW of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement, shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand, by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or  radiogram  to  the  party  to  which  it  is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address, hereinafter
specified, or at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
Page  7
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For KSW:
          The Secretary
          Kakira Sugar Works (1985) Ltd.
          P.O. Box 121
          Jinja
          Uganda
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                MIWA                           64223
                Jinja
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KSW,  or  by  KSW on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by any one of its Joint Managing Directors or such other person or
persons as KSW shall designate  in  writing, and KSW shall furnish
to the Association sufficient  evidence  of  the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    KAKIRA SUGAR WORKS (1985) LTD.
                    By /s/ Mayur M. Mahdvani
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  8
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Materials,  spare  parts,  equipment,  chemicals  and  sundry
inputs for factory  operations  under  Categories  (1)  and (3) of
Schedule 1 to the Development  Credit Agreement, estimated to cost
less than  the  equivalent  of  $500,000  per  contract  up  to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $2,500,000, may
be  procured  through  direct  contracting  from  manufacturers of
installed equipment or  under  contracts  awarded  on the basis of
comparison of  price  quotations  from  at  least  three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations  to  bid,  and  of  proposed awards and
final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods and works, other
than  contracts  for  factory   inputs,   estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for  such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the  two  conformed  copies  of  each  contract,  required  to  be
furnished to  the  Association  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  (d) of
Appendix  1  to  the   Guidelines,   shall  be  furnished  to  the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contracts.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of each such contract,  together with the other information
required  to  be   furnished   to   the  Association  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist KSW in  carrying  out Parts B and D of the
Page  9
Project, KSW shall employ consultants  and experts, referred to in
paragraphs 10 through 12  of  Schedule  2 to this Agreement, whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such consultants and
experts  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures, satisfactory to the  Association,  on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency", published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Implementation:
1.   The Board of Directors of  KSW, has, in accordance with KSW's
Memorandum and Articles of  Association, overall responsibility to
determine KSW's basic policies and operational targets, to approve
KSW's  budget  and  annual  work  programs  and  to  review  KSW's
performance.
2.   The Joint Managing Directors of KSW, who shall be members of,
and responsible to the  Board  of  Directors, shall be KSW's chief
executive officers responsible for operations and will be based at
Kakira.
3.   (a)  The Joint  Managing  Directors  shall be assisted by the
Deputy to  the  Joint  Managing  Directors,  a  general manager, a
financial controller and a project coordinator:
       (i)   the Deputy to the Joint Managing Directors shall have
             such responsibilities as shall  be assigned to him by
             the Joint Managing Directors, related to, inter alia,
             industrial relations management, staff employment and
             training,  monitoring   operational  performance  and
             liaison with the Borrower's agencies;
      (ii)   the  General   Manager   shall   be  responsible  for
             overseeing and  coordinating  the  operations  of the
             Agricultural Division,  the  Sugar  Factory Division,
             the  Sweet  Factory   Division,   the  Personnel  and
             Training Division,  the  Purchasing  Division and the
             Sales Division;
     (iii)   the  Financial  Controller  shall  head  the  Finance
             Division which  shall  be  responsible  for financial
             management and control; and
      (iv)   the  Project  Coordinator  shall  be  responsible for
             planning,    coordinating    and    supervising   the
             implementation of  Parts  A  through D of the Project
             and shall head the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
     (b) KSW shall appoint  the  General  Manager  and the Project
Coordinator,  by  not  later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the
Effective Date of this Agreement.
4.   (a) PIU's functions shall include:
          (i)   planning,     engineering      and     procurement
                administration;
         (ii)   supervision of implementation of Parts A through D
                of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  a detailed
                implementation schedule and duly approved budget;
        (iii)   preparation  of  annual   work  programs  and  the
                budget; and
         (iv)   preparation  of  periodic   progress  reports  and
Page  10
                coordination   with    representatives    of   the
                Association and other financiers of the Project.
     (b)  PIU shall, by  January  1  of  each  year, submit to the
Association, for its review  and  comments, drafts of KSW's annual
work program covering KSW's fiscal  year  commencing on April 1 of
the following year. Annual work  programs shall be satisfactory to
the Association and shall include:
          (i)  a detailed review of  the Project's progress in the
               current year;
         (ii)  a detailed description of Project activities in the
               year covered by  the  report, including objectives,
               production targets and  deployment of equipment and
               staff;
        (iii)  detailed requirements  of  equipment,  supplies and
               manpower;
         (iv)  review  of  the   staff  development  and  training
               program,  and  a  detailed  program  for  the  year
               covered by the report;
          (v)  a  budget  covering  both  Project  and non-Project
               operations;
         (vi)  a  financing  plan,  including  foreign  and  local
               currency requirements and sources of funds; and
        (vii)  a marketing plan,  including the agreement proposed
               to be signed with FBL for the sale of sugar.
     (c)  Pursuant to Section 2.08  of  this Agreement, a mid-term
review of  the  progress  achieved  in  the  implementation of the
Project shall be carried out by the Borrower, the Association, KSW
and other financiers, not  later  than  December  31, 1990, on the
basis of a report to be  prepared and submitted to the Association
at least sixty (60) days prior  to the date of the review meeting.
KSW's report shall include:
          (i)  progress made in achieving production targets;
         (ii)  management and financial performance of KSW;
        (iii)  adequacy of prevailing  prices  of sugar, including
               marketing  arrangements   and   progress   made  in
               reducing the Borrower's intervention in the pricing
               and marketing of sugar;
         (iv)  adequacy  of  manpower  availability  and  training
               arrangements;
          (v)  progress made  in  replacing  expatriate staff with
               nationals of the Borrower; and
         (vi)  plans for the utilization of molasses.
Part A of the Project
Outgrowers Development Scheme
5.   In order to ensure the  operation  of  its sugar factory at a
capacity of  3,000  tons  of  cane  per  day,  KSW  shall make all
arrangements necessary to set up  an outgrowers' scheme with about
1,400 farmers in the immediate  vicinity  of Kakira to develop, by
not later than December 31, 1994,  about 4,100 hectares of land to
produce and supply KSW about 244,000 tons of supplemental cane per
year.
6.   KSW shall enter  into  agreements,  the  form  and content of
which shall be satisfactory to the Association, with participating
Page  11
farmers under which, inter alia:
     (a)  KSW  will  provide   participating   farmers  with  land
cultivation  services,  planting  materials,  agricultural inputs,
including fertilizers and herbicides, and commit itself to buy all
cane produced by each participating farmer; and
     (b)  participating farmers will  commit  themselves to clear,
cultivate and maintain a cane crop on a minimum of 1.2 hectares of
land, to sell the cane so  produced  to KSW and to arrange for the
transport of cane to KSW's factory.
7.   Except  as  the   Borrower   shall   otherwise  determine  in
consultation with the Association, pursuant to Section 3.06 of the
Development Credit Agreement, the price to be paid by KSW for cane
supplied by farmers  shall  be  thirty-five  percent  (35%) of the
value of  extracted  sugar  content  of  cane,  based  on  a sugar
recovery rate of nine percent (9%), or on the actual recovery rate
of KSW's sugar factory, whichever is the greater.
8.   KSW  shall  maintain  rural   roads  in  areas  covering  the
outgrowers' scheme.
9.  Harvesting Equipment
     Unless otherwise determined on  the  basis  of a survey to be
carried out  by  KSW,  not  later  than  October  31,  1988, and a
recommendation of  KSW,  satisfactory  to  the  Association, to be
submitted to the Association,  not  later  than December 31, 1988,
confirming a shortage of labor supply for the manual harvesting of
cane,  KSW  shall  not  acquire  any  additional  cane  harvesting
equipment.
Part B of the Project
10.  KSW shall employ  an  engineering  firm  to  provide KSW with
procurement  services,  and  supervision  and  installation works,
including the quality control of all works to be carried out
on-site.
Part D of the Project
11.  (a) In  order  to  assist  KSW  in  the  carrying  out of its
obligations, KSW shall  employ  a  consulting  firm to provide KSW
with a team of engineering  and  other experts in such numbers and
for such periods as shall be acceptable to the Association.
     (b) KSW  shall  assign  an  adequate  number  of its factory,
process, electrical and civil engineering staff to second the team
of experts to be employed under paragraph (a) above.
12.  KSW shall, by not later than:
     (a)  September  30,   1988,   prepare   and   submit  to  the
Association, a comprehensive training program, satisfactory to the
Association, for the training  of  KSW's  staff and replacement of
expatriate staff with nationals of the Borrower; and
     (b)  June 30,  1988,  employ  a  suitable  consulting firm to
assist  KSW  in  the  design  and  implementation  of  the program
referred to in paragraph (a) above.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(3), (4), (5) and (6)  set  forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
Page  12
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B and  D  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible
Categories in accordance with the  provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  2,300,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by KSW, through
the Borrower, for  a  deposit  or  deposits  which  add  up to the
aggregate amount  of  the  Authorized  Allocation, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as KSW
shall have requested.
     (b)  KSW,  through  the  Borrower,    shall  furnish  to  the
Association requests for replenishment  of  the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association  shall  specify. On the basis of
such requests,  the  Association  shall  withdraw  from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective
Eligible Categories, and in  the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified  by  the evidence supporting the request
for  such  deposit  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by  KSW  out of the Special Account for
which KSW requests replenishment  pursuant  to  paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, KSW shall furnish  to  the Association, prior to or
at the time of such request,  such documents and other evidence as
the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,  showing  that  such
payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for Parts B
               and D  of  the  Project,  minus  the  amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect  to  Parts  B  and D of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
Page  13
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
Eligible Categories for Parts B and  D of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association  shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for any  expenditure  or in any amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was  not  justified   by   the  evidence  furnished
               pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account  (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association)  an amount equal to the amount
of  such  payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or
justified. No further deposit by  the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the  Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, KSW,
through  the  Borrower,  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account.
