Report No. PID7018
PID7018.TXT
Project Name                     Mauritania-Telecommunications and Postal (@)
Sectors Reform Project
Project ID                       MRPE63791
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Telecommunications
Borrower                         Government of the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania
Implementing Agencies            Telecommunications and Postal Unit
Para-Public Sector Reform Program
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
Date of PID Preparation          May 6, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           April 17-27, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 10, 1999
Country And Sector Background
Mauritania is a vast country, with a population of 2.4 million and a very
limited resource base. Virtually all of its 1.1 million square kilometers is
desert, and the country faces serious environmental degradation from
deforestation, overgrazing, and cultivation of marginal lands. Its major
economic activities include iron ore mining in the north, fishing in and
around Nouadhibou, and agriculture and livestock in the Senegal River Valley.
Earnings from iron ore, once the largest source of foreign exchange, have
been declining, reflecting falling demand and prices on the world market
since the mid-1980s; they have been replaced by fish exports, which generated
48 percent of export receipts in 1997.
By late 1992, conditions improved sufficiently for the Government of
Mauritania to launch its adjustment program under which the Ouguiya (UM) was
devalued and key structural reforms in trade, pricing, public expenditures,
civil service and the social sectors were implemented. Renewed emphasis on
market forces and restrained demand management policies contained inflation
and safeguarded earlier gains in competitiveness. During 1993-96, economic
reforms were pursued and macroeconomic targets were largely achieved.
Continuous progress has been made towards macro-economic stabilization in the
areas of external, fiscal and monetary policies and liberalization of the
economy. Major structural reforms in agriculture, fisheries, mining
transport, education and health, banking, public enterprises, insurance,
private sector and public administration were implemented. The strategy to
improve the performance of the telecommunication enterprise (OPT) will be
completed as part of broader macro-economic and structural reforms, including
restructuring the public enterprise sector.
Under a 1993 law, OPT has a monopoly over fixed voice/data telephony and all
mobile services under development and is the sole telecommunication operator
in Mauritania. Telecommunications market structure and service coverage and



levels have been characterized by high tariffs by international standards and
low service penetration, even by regional standards. The latest figures for
1997 show a subscriber coverage of 13 100 main lines, equivalent to a
telephone density of 0.53 main lines per one hundred inhabitants compared to
the Sub-Saharan African average teledensity of 0.56. The number of main
telephone lines rose by only 10% per year between 1993 and 1996, on account
of the saturation of equipment and the difficulty of installing additional
equipment.
On March 22, 1998, the Government adopted a Sector Policy Statement
("Declaration de Politique Sectorielle") which lays out the principal
objectives of the postal and telecommunications reform. The Government's
sector policy provides guidelines for the gradual opening up of all market
segments of the telecommunications sector to competition. The Government's
commitment to reform includes opening up key segments such as cellular,
paging, internet services and value added services as soon as proper
regulatory framework is established by the adoption of a law on
telecommunications and an independent Regulatory Agency is set up. The policy
also envisages the privatization of the main telecommunication operator by
end-2000.
Project Objectives
The project aims to increase economic competitiveness through improved
coverage and quality and more competitive prices for telecommunication
services. The objectives of the project are to (i) increase access to
telecommunications service for a significantly larger number of households,
businesses and organizations with emphasis on the rural areas; (ii) widen the
range of services, such as cellular, data transmission, paging, and a range
of value-added services; (iii) improve the quality of services, especially by
lowering call congestion, reducing fault repair times, and increasing the
capacities and reliability of transmission; (iv) move telecommunications
tariffs towards a cost-oriented structure and narrow the cost of
international telecommunications relative to those of competitor and partner
trading countries; (v) accelerate the deployment of new and cost effective
technologies relevant to Mauritania's needs through attracting private sector
commercial and technical management and know-how. In addition, the project
aims at enabling the post office, once separated from the existing
telecommunications provider, to evolve into a more commercially oriented and
eventually financially sustainable entity.
Project Description
Component 1: Legal and regulatory framework enabling a multi-operator
environment: This component aims at implementing a new legal and regulatory
framework consistent with a competitive multi-operator market structure in
telecommunications. This project component will finance consultant services
to help the new regulatory agency prepare and implement the new regulatory
framework resulting from the new Telecommunications Law adopted by Government
in May 1999. It will also support training of new Regulatory Agency personnel
and equipment for frequency spectrum management and monitoring.
Component 2: Privatization of the national telecommunications operator: Prior
to the privatization, the project will finance consultants who will help
prepare the separation and corporatization of Postal and Telecommunications
activities currently embodied within the OPT. The privatization component
aims at attracting private capital to the main telecommunications operator
-2 -



initially through a strategic sale. The project will finance advisory
services of international consultants to assist the Government in structuring
and executing the privatization transaction of OPT which will include a
capital increase to be subscribed by a strategic partnership.
Component 3: Preparation of a strategy for delivering of information access
and related services to rural and disadvantaged communities: This component
aims at identifying and testing innovative institutional solutions to improve
connectivity and access to remote and traditionally disadvantaged populations
in the context of the new regulatory environment and market structure. The
project will finance the recruitment of consultants to carry out a special
study on opportunities arising from new technologies to explore how new
services could be further facilitated to improve access to remote and
disadvantaged communities. They will also help the Government draft a new
Postal Law, prepare a Postal Development Plan, which will identify creative
ways to link postal development to a broader rural strategy. Finally, they
will organize a National Workshop to bring together all major actors both on
the supply and the demand side of telecommunications and information
services. Finally, the project will finance some equipment to support the
implementation of the rural strategy.
Component 4: Media and information campaign: Successful implementation and
sustainability of the project will require a broad understanding of the
issues and opportunities arising under the telecommunications reform agenda.
The implementing agency will use the services of local and foreign
consultants to achieve the following goals: (i) informing potential domestic
and foreign investors on the new business opportunities created by the
reforms; (ii) building general public support and investor confidence; (iii)
ensuring transparency of the reform program through wide dissemination of
licensing and privatization procedures, disclosure of results of each
transaction, and general information on the overall results and impacts of
the program.
Component 5: Capacity building in para-public sector reform and project
management: This component aims at establishing the necessary institutions to
carry out the telecommunications reforms efficiently and transparently, as
well as ensuring that adequate capacity is built for other utility reforms
and privatization.
Project Financing.
Total project costs of US $12 million equivalent will be financed by IDA
financing (US$10.8 million) and Government ($1.2 million). In addition to
covering all foreign exchange costs, IDA financing will cover some local
costs which could not be assumed within Government budget constraints.
Project Implementation.
The principal executing agency responsible for the implementation of the
sector reform program and the project is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Development. This Ministry will also manage the overall coordination of the
project. The implementing agency is the Telecommunications and Postal Unit
(TPU) under the Para-Public Sector Reform Program. The project will be
implemented over a three-year period from July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2002. TPU
will be responsible for supervising the consultants financed by this project
and ensuring proper procurement and financial management.
- 3 -



Project Sustainability
By placing emphasis on the incentive framework for emergence of market-based
service provision, the project will accelerate sector investments and improve
service levels as entry by new private operators increases. Incentives to
sustain project objectives include codification of rights and obligations of
the incumbent and new operators not only in legislation and decrees but also
in licenses. Improved service coverage and quality and more competitive
telecommunications prices will be sustained as private investment grows in
both telecommunications infrastructure and services. Empowering the new
regulatory agency to charge levies and fees on telecommunications operator
will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without dependence on
budgetary support. Unfulfilled demand for various services in remote and
rural regions can be increasingly satisfied as incomplete markets for
telecommunications services are redressed through specific initiatives to
organize financially sustainable community information centers.
Poverty Category.
Consumers in general will benefit from improved access, quality and choice of
telecommunications services at more competitive prices. The rural access
component specifically targets low-income, rural and other disadvantaged
populations and is expected to improve equitable access to information
services.
Environmental Aspects.
The project is not expected to have any negative environmental impacts.
Therefore, there is no full environmental analysis report expected in the
project.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
M. Mohamed Mahfoud Ould Brahim
Project Manager
Tel: + 222 2 584 90, Fax: +222 2 517 00
email: mahfoud@opt.mr
Task Manager
Govindan Nair, Sr. Economist
Telecommunications and Informatics
Tel: +1 202 473 4002, Fax: +1 202 522 3001
email: gnair@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 14, 1999.
- 4 -



