Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18644
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8 MILLION
(USD10.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTORS REFORM
PROJECT
MAY 14, 1999
Telecommunications and Informatics Division (EMTTI)
Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Sao Tome & Principe (AFC15)
Africa Region (AFR)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
1000 JUM = 4.57 USD
I USD= 218.75 UM
I SDR= 1.355 USD
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD           Agence Frangaise de Developpement
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FCC           US Federal Communications Commission
GATS          General Agreement on Trade in Services
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ITU           International Telecommunications Union
IDA           The International Development Association (of the World Bank Group)
NGOs          Non Government Organizations
OPT           Office of Posts and Telecommunications
PE            Public Entreprise
PMR           Project Management Report
RA            Regulatory Agency
SOEs          Statement of Expenses
TPU           Telecommunications and Postal Unit of the Para-Public Sector Reform Program
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WHO           World Health Organization
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:     Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader:   Govindan G. Nair



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Telecommunications and postal sectors reform project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................2
1. Project development objective                    .2
2. Key performance indicators                      .2
B. Strategic Context                               .2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy             .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  .6
C. Project Description Summary                           .8
1. Project components                          .8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  .9
3. Benefits and target population                   .9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements           .9
D. Project Rationale .10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies . 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .14
E. Issues requiring special attention .14
1. Economic .14
2. Financial .14
3. Technical .15
4. Institutional .15
5. Social .15
6. Environmental Assessment .15
7. Participatory approach .15



F.  Sustain ability  and  Risks .............................................................. 16
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                16
2. Critical Risks ..............................................................                                                16
G.  Main  Credit Conditions .............................................................. 17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................................................                                      17
2. Other .............................................................. 17
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                              18
I .  Compliance with  Bank Policies ......................................................................... 18
Annexes
Annex 1.                   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.                   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.                   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.                   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.                   Financial Summary
Annex 6.                   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
- Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
- Table Al.  Consultant Selection Arrangements
- Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
- Table C.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.                   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.                   Documents in Project File
Annex 9.                   Statement of Bank Groups in Mauritania and IFC's Portfolio
Annex 10.                  Country at a Glance
Map



Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telecommunications and postal sectors reform project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Sao Tome & Principe (AFC 15)
Date: May 14, 1999                            Team Leader: Govindan G. Nair
Country Manager/Director: Hasan A. Tuluy      Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Forestier
Project ID: 63791                             Sector: CC - Telecommunications & Informatics
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan  Theme(s): Private Sector Development
(TAL)                     Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[ I] Loan     [xl Credit       [] Grant         Ii] Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.8
Proposed terms:    [ ] To be defined   [X] Multicurrency       [] Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed          [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):       10
Years to maturity:          40
Commitment fee:             0%
Service charge:             0.75%
Fi:n -- e . an:               [ To be defirei
Government                                                     1.2           0.0             1.2
IDA                                                            2.4           8.4            10.8
Total:                                                         3.6           8.4            12.0
Borrower: Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2(,00         2001 X  , _ 0Z
Annual         4.0          4.3           3.7
Cumulative         4.0          8.3          12.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/00                    Expected closing date: 12/31/02
Implementing Agency: Telecommunications and Postal Unit of the Para-Public Sector Reform Program
Address: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, P.O.B. 238, Nouakchott, Mauritania
Contact person: Mohamed Mahfoudh Ould Brahim, Telecommunications and Postal Project Manager
Tel: 222 25 84 90                Fax: 222 25 17 00               E-mail: Mahfoud@opt.mr



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 2
Country: Mauritania                       Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to expand access to communications and information services at competitive
prices through establishing a legal, regulatory and institutional framework favorable to
competitive private provision of telecommunications infrastructure and services, and to postal
development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex])
Progress towards the development objective will be reflected in:
1) Increased access and quality of communications and information services at more competitive
prices to be measured by the following indicators:
* Increased teledensity
* Increased mobile service density
* Increased payphone density
* Increased rural penetration
= Increased completion rate of national and international calls
* Reduced waiting period for telephone connection
* Decreased absolute and relative levels of telecommunications charges measured by
comparative tariff baskets
2) Increased consumer choice reflected in the variety of new services offered by various private
operators deploying new technologies and know how:
*   First cellular license granted to a private operator
-   Licensing of other new infrastructure providers (e.g. cellular) and new service providers
(e.g. Internet, paging services)
*   Diversified postal services
3) Increased level of private investment in telecommunications infrastructure and services:
-   Increased percentage of private investment in telecommunication infrastructure and
services
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16595                Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/21/97
The project will contribute to the following core CAS objectives:
(i)    Improve living standards and the competitiveness of the economy through expanding
access to basic infrastructure services: By improving the overall business environment through
enhanced competition and private investnent, the project will help reduce the cost of doing
business, which is a benchmark for the poverty reduction strategy of the CAS.
(ii)    Promote supply response by creating an environment conducive to private sector
development and attracting foreign direct investment: The new legal and regulatory framework
and the improved regulatory capacity supported by the project will enable sustainable private
investment flows into the telecommunications sector and the possibility of public-private
partnerships (sub-contracting, franchising, and possibly strategic partnership) to improve postal
operations. In pursuing this objective, the project will help attract foreign direct investment into
telecommunications infrastructure and services sectors. Finally, by helping open the



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 3
Country: Mauritania                      Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
telecommunication sector to private sector investments, the project will also contribute to trigger
the high-case scenario for Bank assistance envisaged in the CAS.
(iii)   Enhance dynamic and broad-based growth in the rural sector by upgrading, diversifying
and raising the technological base: The project will support a regulatory framework based on
clear and transparent rules, which will encourage new private entry into the sector and ensure fair
competition. This pro-entry regulatory framework will encourage technological and institutional
innovations for disseminating information in social and productive sectors including commerce,
health and education. This will help develop human capital and create more dynamic growth
opportunities in the rural sector, which is identified in the CAS as the most critical area for
private sector intervention.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Main sector issues
(i)    The  country  is  characterized  by  underdeveloped  information  infrastructure:
Telecommunications, computing, broadcasting and postal services are critical for efficient
business transactions and social and economic development in Mauritania, especially given poor
road and railway infrastructure. However,. all these forms of information infrastructure remain
underdeveloped:
Telecommunications: Although Mauritania's teledensity (0.53 main lines per hundred inhabitants
in 1997) is about the average for Sub-Saharan Africa, it is lower than the low-income country
average of 2.45%. Telephone tariffs are on average higher than in several neighboring countries,
thereby hindering the growth of information services. The expansion of the 1998 base of 250
Internet subscribers is constrained by the high cost of service (USD 6 per hour) and dial-up
charges paid to OPT (flat rate of USD 30 a month for a dial up account). Furthermore, Mauritania
is one of the few countries on the continent with no mobile telephone service. Privately operated
paging services are very limited and are available only in Nouakchott.
Computing: Low penetration of PCs -- 12,500 PCs in 1996 corresponding to 0.53 per hundred
inhabitants -- further limits the demand for Internet services. The current Internet link does not
provide sufficient capacity to support web-browsing and downloading of large data files;
therefore Internet is mainly used for electronic mail purposes.
Broadcasting: As 70 % of the Mauritanian population have access to radio broadcasting, it is the
most frequent communications infrastructure used by development agencies, NGOs and other
organizations to deliver information on social services in rural areas. However, the costs
including the purchase of terminal equipment (USD 1250-3000) are too high for broad-based use.
There are only 8.2 TV sets per 100 inhabitants (1996), compared to an average of 13.1 for low-
income countries.
Postal services: There are 62 post offices in Mauritania, corresponding to 2.48 mail distribution
points for 100,000 inhabitants and covering 95% of the population. Postal outlets are distributed
over 58 localities in the country, compared to a telecommunications coverage of merely 13 cities,
providing untapped potential for enhanced nationwide delivery of communications and financial
services. The expansion of express courier services is hindered by the small number of private
operators (five express courier services) in the country and the limited number of international
flights in and out Mauritania. The service is often unreliable and has not been responsive to
market needs and trends. Since considerable commercial and financial transactions are carried
out by mail, any excessive delay in mail delivery leads to higher transaction costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 4
Country: Mauritania                       Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
(ii)    Poor availability and high costs of communications and information services constrain
broad-based private sector led growth, income-generating possibilities for rural and traditionally
disadvantaged groups, and competitiveness of exports: Access to communications and
infonnation services within the country is uneven. Large areas, mainly rural, have virtually no
access to telecommunications services. Teledensity outside Nouakchott and Nouadhibou is as
low as 0.1% compared to 1.5% in the two main cities. OPT's telecommunications network is
present in all regional capitals, but 46% of the population has no access at all despite the strong
demand reflected in the reported waiting lists. The postal coverage is more extended with only
5% of the population having no access to a postal outlet. Unequal access to communication and
information services contributes to disparities in income-generating opportunities, particularly for
handicrafts as well as agricultural and micro-enterprises in local as well as export markets.
High telecommunications tariffs by international and regional standards tend to constrain the
supply response to macro-economic reforms in Mauritania. As a result, there is a lack of cost-
effective and timely means of generating, transmitting and accessing information on prices,
products, customers and suppliers. This perpetuates the fragmentation of markets, particularly in
rural areas, impedes new enterprise creation, and constrains enterprise efficiency and
development.
The existing tariff structure applied by OPT does not reflect costs and is barely adjusted to
market trends. The deposit, installation and subscription charges as well as local, long-distance
and international tariffs have hardly changed since 1994. Installation, monthly subscription and
local calls are cross-subsidized by long-distance and international tariffs. The disproportionately
high international tariffs, which notably place existing and potential exporters at a competitive
disadvantage, is even more profound in Mauritania than in other West-African countries, many of
which have already begun to re-balance their tariffs.
Like other developing countries, Mauritania will have to face major telephone tariff adjustments
arising from imminent reforms of the international accounting rate system. These reforms will
continue to lower the rate (settlement rate) which operators in developing countries charge their
foreign counterparts for terminating telephone traffic which the latter originate. For Mauritania,
the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has mandated U.S. operators to
achieve a settlement rate benchmark of USD 0.23 per minute by 2001/2002, sharply below the
current settlement rate of USD 0.85. Given its relatively low dependence on net settlement
revenues, Mauritania can better adjust to reduced settlement revenues than some of its neighbors.
(iii)   Current corporate and market structure results in  insufficient investment, low
productivity and unfulfilled demand. Nonetheless, major income-generating opportunities exists
within the telecommunications and postal sectors: OPT became a national company in 1990 when
its relationships, rights and obligations with the state were clarified through a program-contract.
However, OPT's corporate structure, which combines postal and telecommunications operations,
remains inefficient and unresponsive to market needs and trends. At 22 main lines per employee
(1997), labor productivity in telecommunications in Mauritania is low compared to an average of
31 in Sub-Saharan Africa, 63 in low-income countries and 139 in the world. The productivity of
the postal sector is also low: 14,600 mail items processed per employee (1997) can be compared
to 69,211 in South African Post Office Limited.
The potential for efficiency gains as well as new business opportunities in telecommunications
and postal sectors is significant. Revenue per main line in Mauritania is very high - USD 2689
(1996), compared to the Sub-Saharian average of USD 1175, the low-income country average of
USD 343 and the world average of USD 839. This suggests profitable opportunities, even with
lower tariffs and higher service levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 5
Country: Mauritania                     Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
With its wide network throughout the country, the post office could also offer new and profitable
services. These include: direct mail delivery, specialized postal services such as passport
application, facsimile, Internet access, business reply service, database services, community
information centers which offer products and services with added value related to the
communications needs of a user; and payment services particularly for periodic funds transfer.
(iv)   The existing legal and institutional framework is not adapted to rapid technological,
market and policy changes worldwide in the information technology sectors: Operating and
regulatory functions in both telecommunications and the postal sector have been closely
intertwined. The Ministry of Interior is nominally responsible for sector policy and regulation and
by law OPT has carried out virtually all the regulatory functions (e.g. spectrum management,
tariff policy) on behalf of the Ministry. Other countries in the region which have begun to open
their telecommunications sectors to greater competition have separated these operating and
regulatory functions and some of them have vested regulation in an independent regulatory body.
Government strategy
On March 22, 1998, the Government laid down the core objectives of the postal and
telecommunications sectors reform in its new sector Policy Statement and has subsequently
developed the following action plan to implement this policy:
Establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework by end 1999: The new legal and
regulatory framework is aimed at putting all operators on an equal competitive footing with
respect to regulatory provisions on tariffs, interconnection, and universal access. A new
Telecommunications Law adopted by Government on May 12, 1999 enables the emergence of a
multi-operator market structure of both service and infrastructure providers, with regulatory
functions vested in an independent regulatory agency. Related decrees to establish the Regulatory
Agency, on universal access obligations, on a new tariff regime and on interconnection policies
are to be issued before end- 1999.
Gradual opening up of all market segments of the telecommunications sector to competition: The
Govemment committed to open up segments such as terminal equipment trade, mobile services,
paging, Internet services and value added services as soon as proper regulatory framework based
on the new Telecommunications Law is in place. In addition to services specified above, all
services not commercially exploited and localities not covered by OPT at the time of the Policy
Declaration of March 22, 1998 will be immediately opened to competition. The gradual
introduction of competition in all other segments, such as fixed wired telephony, will be
completed before June 2004.
Privatization of the main telecommunication operator by end-2000: The Government plans to
introduce private equity and management into the main telecommunications operator through a
strategic partnership. The aim is to allow greater flexibility and efficiency in the management of'
the main operator and to thereby enable it to better respond to the growing unmet demand for
telecommunications services.
Development of the post office into a financially viable entity: A new Postal Law is to be
prepared to accompany the separation of the postal entity from the telecommunications operator.
In addition, as part of a comprehensive development plan to transform the Post office into a
financially viable entity within five years the government will provide for a declining subsidy to
absorb the operational deficit over this transition period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 6
Country: Mauritania                      Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Sector Issues Addressed by the Project
Project design supports the Government's reform strategy in the following four areas:
(i)    Improve the incentive structure for telecommunications infrastructure and service
provision: New entry and private investment into the telecommunications sector will be
encouraged through technical assistance in setting up a new legal and regulatory framework
enabling a shift away from state-owned monopoly provision of service to a multi-operator,
competitive and private sector-driven market structure. The project will assist in the formulation
of appropriate policy and regulatory provisions which lay the basis for a level playing field
among the incumbent operator and new service and facilities providers, notably through
regulations on interconnection, tariff policy and universal access, among others.
Regulatory reform in telecommunications has to recognize the increasing tradability of
telecommunications services, given Mauritania's outward-oriented development strategy and
commitment to regional integration. The project will help the Government pay particular
attention to developing a legal and regulatory framework which is closely harmonized with
emerging global trends, notably those reflected in the Fourth Protocol of the General Agreement
on Trade in Services (GATS) under the aegis of the World Trade Organization. As of today, five
African countries - Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Morocco, Senegal, and South Africa - have participated
in the agreement.
The project will also assist to grant the first mobile service license to an independent private
operator through international competitive bidding and to prepare a license agreement with clear
rights and obligations. The project will also help prepare licenses for the privatized main operator
as well as for its affiliate, notably for mobile services. The Government has committed to ensure
transparent competitive bidding for all future licenses and equitable tax and license price
treatment for all operators.
To help competition work and to address the need to regulate the allocation and use of scarce
public resources (e.g. frequency spectrum, numbering, rights of way, radio sites) a new
regulatory body independent of operators will be created. The project will assist in the planning
and implementation of regulatory tasks and decrees needed under the proposed new
telecommunications law and in the development of regulatory capacity. It is expected that the
body will become financially autonomous through its licensing and other regulatory activities.
With the licensing of new private operators, initially in mobile services, demands for the use of
the radio frequency spectrum can be expected to increase, especially as wireless technologies
become more widespread. This increasing demand can be expected not only for radio frequencies
used by telecommunications, but also for broadcasting services. Consequently, the Regulatory
Agency's (RA) responsibilities for spectrum allocation, assignment, billing and enforcement
activities will grow. The project therefore will help prepare the RA for these functions and build
its capabilities in frequency management and monitoring, as well as procure the necessary
frequency management equipment.
(ii)   Introduce commercial orientation with management and capital from the private sector:
The project will assist the Government in  separating  and  corporatizing  postal and
telecommunications activities and in implementing a new ownership structure for the main
telecommunications operator in which private ownership, management and capital become the
principal drivers of sector investment and development. Through financing specialist consultant
services, the project will assist the Government in designing and implementing an appropriate
privatization strategy to dilute as well as divest Government shareholding in the existing state-



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 7
Country: Mauritania                        Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
owned monopoly operator. Initially, this will entail the sale of a strategic equity stake to one or
more experienced international telecommunications operators, and possibly, in a subsequent
stage, through a public offering of Government-held shares to domestic and foreign investors.
The consultants will also be mandated to profile and attract appropriate potential strategic
partners and to successfully use a competitive bidding and negotiation process to conclude a sales
transaction which will be consistent with new provisions on sector competition policy as well as
embody sector development targets. The project will finally help the corporatized Post office
prepare a corporate strategy for human resources, products, and financial development.
(iii) Promote a broad-based and participatory private sector development strategy: A
communication campaign to ensure widespread awareness of the issues and opportunities of the
new regulatory framework among domestic and foreign private investors, existing and potential
household and business customers, and traditionally disadvantaged population will be an integral
part of the project.
The project will include preparation of a strategy to encourage effective, privately provided
communication and information services using technological and institutional innovations.
Improving access to telecommunications and information services to traditionally unserviced
segments of the population requires novel technological and institutional approaches. Pilot
activities testing a number of new technological and institutional approaches will be supported by
the project. Support will also be provided to plan replication and scaling up of success stories in
an institutionally and financially sustainable manner. In addition, the project will specifically
examine the role the restructured post office can play in increasing rural access to information
and communications services.
(iv)    Set opportunities for the overall para-public sector reform program: Telecommunications
reform will provide a flagship for the privatization program and help build skills in corporate
restructuring, assets sales and regulatory reform needed for the privatization of other utilities and
enterprises. The project aims to create spillover benefits for other utility reforms through building
common capacity and institutions as the new Telecommunications Law provides an option to
extend eventually the ambit of the new regulatory body to other utilities.
Strategic choices
The design of the reform process has confronted the Government with a number of strategic
choices, which have been reflected in the design of the technical assistance project:
Separating sector operation from regulation: A multi-operator environment requires clear and
transparent rules of the game to address both economic (tariff structure, interconnection) and
technical (frequency management, standards, etc.) issues. The Government has committed to
divest the incumbent operator of its existing regulatory functions and to empower and staff an
independent regulatory agency. The regulatory body will initially cover only telecommunications.
However, its design will be flexible so that once sufficient regulatory capacity is developed, it
could evolve to a multi-utility regulatory body.
Private versus public ownership: The Government has opted to increasingly introduce private
capital and management into utilities, thus reducing public involvement in infrastructure
provision and focusing public resources more on social sectors. In the telecommunications sector,
additional investments will be needed in forthcoming years to develop new service offerings and
applications, to deploy new technologies as well as to broaden service coverage, notably in rural
areas. The strategic sale of the company is not only expected to bring financial resources but also
to attract new technologies and management expertise into the company which will help it adapt
to a more competitive market environment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 8
Country: Mauritania                             Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
Scope, size and allocation of subsidies: The Government's policy is to shift from traditional cross
subsidies into a more market-based mechanism for mobilizing and allocating any required
subsidies for telecommunications development. International experience indicates that, with few
exceptions, universal access objectives in developing countries have not been attained with
traditional cross-subsidies or public financing. On the other hand, market-based mechanisms such
as auctions for subsidies have been shown to result in a lower level as well as more transparent
and targeted use of subsidies. A well-designed universal access policy in a competitive
environment including, for example, the use of build-out obligations in competitive bidding for
licenses, can considerably contribute to improving access to communications services. With
regard to the Post office, the Government's policy is to make any transitional subsidy transparent
and to allow pricing and cost recovery for postal services which will eventually lead to a
financially viable postal entity.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for cost breakdown)
Indicative    % of        Bank-          % of
Component                      Costs       Total      financing       Bank-
(USDM)                  (USDM)    Financing
a)  Telecom legal and regulatory framework      3.7         31%          3.5          95%
*   Consultant services to establish legal and
regulatory framework
*   Consultant services and equipment for RA
*   Telecommunications training
b)  Privatization of the main telecom operator  1.7         14%          1.6          94%
o   Consultant services to structure and execute
the privatization transaction
*   Consultant services and training to build
capacity in utility privatization
c)  Strategy for improvement of information     5.3         44%          4.7          89%
service delivery to rural and
disadvantaged communities and for postal
development
*   Consultant services and equipment for
preparation and piloting of a rural strategy
*   National rural access workshop
*   Consultant services and equipment for
preparation and implementation of postal
development plan
•   Training on postal reform
d)  Information and media campaign              0.2         2%           0.2         100%
*   Consultant services for preparing and
launching the media campaign
e) Capacity building and project                0.7         6%           0.4          60%
management
•   Consultant services and equipment for
Telecom and Postal Unit and for the Special
Procurement Commission
*   Project Audit
f)  PPF refinancing                             0.4         3%    _      0.4         100%
Total Project Costs    12.00      100.0        10.8          90%



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 9
Country: Mauritania                       Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project will support five sets of policy and institutional reforms enabled by the new
Telecommunications Law: (i) a framework of regulatory decrees and licenses which translates
the law into concrete rules of the game and actual entry of new operators; (ii) establishment of an
independent regulatory agency to develop and oversee the new regulatory framework; (iii)
introduction of a strategic partner into the main operator resulting from the separation of post and
telecommunications; (iv) creation of a corporate postal entity and support towards enabling it to
become commercially oriented and financially viable; and (v) preparation of a strategy to
stimulate information technology applications in rural settings.
Specific institution building goals will be achieved through capacity building within the new
telecommunications Regulatory Agency and within the Para-Public Sector Reform Program
which is mandated to oversee the process of preparing and executing privatization of major
utilities and public entities through strategic sales and public offerings. International consultant
services financed by the project will embed transfer of skills to local consultants and ensure that
suitably qualified local counterparts are recruited and involved in the design and execution of the
project as well as receive appropriate training in regulatory and other skills.
3. Benefits and target population
Provision of competitively priced and high quality telecommunications services will help create a
modern information infrastructure, which will enhance: competitiveness of traditional products;
emerging and new economic activities including tourism and services; and social welfare through
cost-effective means of delivering training and education, health services, agricultural and
industrial extension services and environmental management. Project-supported reforms will
generate a "win-win" outcome in which all major stakeholders benefit:
* Consumers in general will benefit from improved access, quality and choice of
telecommunications services at more competitive prices.
- The rural access component specifically targets low-income, rural and other disadvantaged
populations and is expected to improve equitable access to information services.
* Private sector in general will benefit from improved availability and quality as well as from
reduced factor costs and enhanced international competitiveness through lower prices.
* Business opportunities for private telecommunications operators and service providers will
increase through widening of both telecommunications service offerings and investment
opportunities into new information-related businesses.
* Small and medium size enterprises as new service providers, subcontractors to the incumbent
and new operators, and providers of customer premises and terminal equipment, will also
benefit from rising opportunities in the restructured sector.
*  Micro and informal sector businesses will especially benefit from the better availability and
quality of services at lower costs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project implementation period: The project will be implemented over a three-year period from
July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2002. The Credit closing date will be December 31, 2002.
Executing agency: The executing agency responsible for the implementation of the sector reform
program and the project is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. The Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Development will consult with other Ministries in areas of joint
responsibility through an Inter-Ministerial Committee responsible for setting the policy and
especially with the Ministry of Interior, Posts and Telecommunications responsible for
overseeing the postal and telecommunications sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 10
Country: Mauritania                     Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reforn project
Implementing agency: The implementation agency of the project is the Telecommunications and
Postal Unit (TPU) of the Para-Public Sector Reform Program, which was established by a
Government decision of November 7, 1998. The Para-Public Sector Reform Program is headed
by a Director mandated by the Government to execute and co-ordinate overall para-public sector
reforms, and who is directly reporting to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development. The
TPU is one of four groupings of para-public reforms each to be headed by a Project Manager
responsible for the executing sector-specific reforms in post and telecommunications; water and
electricity; air transport and other sectors.
Project administration: The Project Manager heading the TPU is responsible for supervising the
consultants financed by this project and ensuring proper procurement and financial management.
He is assisted by a procurement specialist and an accountant/financial management specialist.
Procurement: Procurement under this project is carried out by the Special Procurement
Commission for the Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform ("Commission speciale des
marches pour la reforme des secteurs des Postes et Telecommunications"). The Special
Procurement Commission was established by Decree n. 99-03 of January 6, 1999 in order to
expedite procurement under the telecommunications and postal sector reform while maintaining
transparency in the process of contract awarding. The TPU procurement specialist will carry out
the day-to-day contract management activities and will organize working sessions with the
Special Procurement Commission to review bidding documents and bid evaluation reports, and to
make decisions on contract awards. An assessment of the procurement capacity of the Special
Procurement Commission and the TPU was conducted during appraisal. Resulting from this
assessment is an agreed action plan in the Manual of Procedures geared to ensure the capacity of
TPU to administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way.
Accounting, financial reporting and audit: The accountant/financial management specialist of the
TPU will be responsible for setting up project financial and accounting systems according to IDA
standards and to keep and monitor project accounts for each component. Project accounts, special
accounts and all disbursements under Statement of Expenses (SOEs) will be audited annually
according to international standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The annual
audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation: TPU will be in charge of monitoring progress via performance
indicators. Monitoring and evaluation will be guided by the Project Design Summary in Annex 1
and the Maniual of Procedures. The Manual of Procedures specifies reporting responsibilities for
each component, which will enable the TPU to generate and submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports. The Bank will have at least eight supervision missions and conduct annual
progr-ss reviews. A mid-term review will allow the Government and the World Bank to jointly
review number of issues of the project design and progress. The Government will transmit to
IDA a project implementation completion report, within six months of Credit-closing.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The followinig project design alternatives were considered:
(i)    Fixing an exclusivity period for the main operator: The March 1998 sector policy
statement, adopted prior to project preparation, envisaged an exclusivity of five to seven years for
the main oprcrator. Within this policy orientation, dialogue with the World Bank during project
preparation led to two alternative approaches being considered to achieve the project goals of
rapidly introducing competition on1 the one hand and maximizing the prospects for successfully



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 11
Country: Mauritania                            Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reformn project
consummating the privatization transaction of the main operator on the other hand. Fixing an
exclusivity period for the main operator prior to launching the privatization process was rejected.
A consensus was reached that the exclusivity period and scope should be reviewed at the time the
draft license for the main operator is prepared. The new Telecommunications Law states that the
exclusivity period would not, in any case, go beyond June 2004. Moreover, the new Law does not
prescribe specific duration or scope for the exclusivity other than to state that the exclusivity
could not cover new services nor markets currently not serviced by OPT.
(ii)    Determining destination of privatization proceeds: Funneling privatization proceeds to
the Treasury was rejected; rather the alternative of retaining proceeds within the company was
chosen to: (a) make the strategic sale more attractive to potential investors; (b) be consistent with
the Government's priority on network and service expansion over immediate gains to the
Treasury; and (c) allow Govemment to benefit from capital gains typically associated with a
second stage of privatization, after the strategic sale, through an offering of Government shares to
domestic and foreign investors.
(iii)    Targeting first and second-generation reform issues: Limiting the scope of the project to
regulatory and privatization reforms envisaged in the macro-economic program was rejected to
allow for a specific focus on enabling applications of information technology in rural settings and
supporting postal sector development. The incremental benefits of these additional project
activities were determined to be high as the incentive framework supported by the other project
components introduces opportunities for innovatively tackling problems of rural access to
communications, information and other services.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                              Project                    (PSR) Ratings
Implementa- Development
Bank-financed                                                   tion Progress   Objective
(IP)         (DO)
Encourage investor interest in pursuing opportunities in Private Sector Development and
the private sector and strengthen the financial sector.    Capacity Building Project   S             S
Credit 2730-MAU, Active
Strengthen the Government's long-term capacity to  Mauritania Public Enterprise Sector
devise and implement public enterprise (PE) reforms,  Institutional Development and
including better management and development of the   Technical Assistance Project      S             S
telecom services of OPT and encouragement of the  Credit 2167-MAU, Closed 06/98
creation of postal savings subsidiaries.
Support the extension of the Government's structural Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
adjustment program by deepening the reforms in the PE Program
sector, through establishing a legal and institutional Credit 2166-MAU, Closed 04/95  HS            HS
framework, as well as financial restructuring of key PEs
and divestiture.
Promote private sector development by improving the Private Sector Development Program
legal and institutional framework and consolidating Credit 2726-MAU, Closed 12/97      S            HS
financial sector reforms.
Other development agencies                     _____________________________...
AFD                                            Studies on digitalization of the
Nouakchott-Nouadhibou line and on
extension of the Nouakchott
telephone network to peri-urban
districts. Project Costs: FF 689,750



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 12
Country: Mauritania                            Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
UNDP                                           - Internet Initiative for Africa:
Project cost: USD 6 million (co-
financing with OPT)
- Sustainable Development
Networking Project
-Extension of Internet capacity in
Nouakchott, reinforcement of the
future Nouadhibou node and
establishment of Intemet connection
in four regions.
Project cost: USD I million (co-
financing with OPT)
WHO/ PACTEC                                    Audio communications links to the
Ministry of Health in Nouakchott
enabling health centers to report on
epidemics, emergencies, general
health administration and logistical
matters
UNICEF                                         Rural radio for communications in
social sector campaigns
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from previous projects in Mauritania aiming at private sector
development:
A.      Project design has drawn from the following three lessons of the recently closed Public
Enterprise Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2167-
MAU):
(i)     There is a need to follow and sustain the Government's first-generation public enterprise
reforms by additional sector reforms which enhance competition and private participation in
utilities. The project is a first step in assisting the Government's utility sector reform program
adopted in 1998 which includes private sector participation.
(ii)    Strong  Government  commitment  and  broad  participation  in  the  design  and
implementation of the PE reform is a sine qua non condition to the success of these reforms.
Project preparation has been characterized by up-front preparation of a new telecommunications
law and appropriate institutional arrangements specific to the needs of project implementation.
(iii)    An effective project implementing agency endowed with authority and resources, in the
design and implementation of reforms, including privatization is critical for project success. In
the context of preparing this project, the Government has mandated an implementing agency
under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development to oversee the overall para-public
sector reform program covering privatization of telecommunications, other utilities, and the
national airline.
B.      In  order to  respond to  chronic  implementation  problems identified  in the joint
Bank/Government Project Portfolio Review conducted in Mauritania in October 1997, the
Mauritanian counterparts working with the Bank:
a   Ensured up-front procurement planning and IDA review of bidding packages for all major



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 13
Country: Mauritania                     Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
consultancies prior to negotiations so that all related contracts will be ready to be signed soon
after Credit effectiveness;
* Prepared terms of reference for consultancy services with intensive inputs from both the
project implementing agency and beneficiaries, and drew upon best practices;
*  Paid close attention to project financial management by insisting upon completion of a
comprehensive and fully specified project manual of procedures to be submitted for IDA
review before project negotiations;
* Clearly distinguished and balanced the roles: (i) of government agencies as beneficiaries of
capacity building and (ii) the project implementation agency as the accountable entity with
fiduciary responsibility for Project funds;
* Included a detailed and comprehensive information and media campaign as a specific project
component;
* Developed a detailed project implementation timetable using project management software
which mapped and sequenced over 250 preparation and implementation tasks;
* Specified time-bound and output-related work program responsibilities and performance
criteria for project management personnel under project-financed contracts; and
* Conditioned project negotiations on completion and formal Government endorsement of a
highly detailed Manual of Procedures which was prepared before project negotiations and
referenced in the Development Credit Agreement.
Lessons learned from other telecommunications operations in Africa
Preparation of this proposed project has been guided by two principal lessons in
telecommunications reforms worldwide:
(i)    A pro-competitive framework which supports a multi-operator environment tends to
improve service coverage and quality more rapidly and to foster more competitive prices than a
state or private monopoly operator. In several African countries, new entrants, notably mobile
operators are adding more subscribers than incumbent wireline operators, even after
privatization. The new Telecommunications Law adopted by the Government is flexible and by
not specifying an exclusivity for the main operator of specific scope or duration, it is conducive
to developing and sustaining a pro-competitive regulatory framework. The regulatory framework
in Mauritania will emphasize clear rights and obligations for non-discriminatory interconnection
among operators.
(ii)    A pro-competitive regulatory framework alone, maybe insufficient to realize the full
potential for new investments and private sector activity as well as more effective use of the
infrastructure. Unclear understanding of the new rules of the game, weak regulatory capacity and
incomplete markets for service delivery to remote and traditionally disadvantaged areas and
populations can constrain new investment. The project features an effective public media
campaign to generate broad-based understanding of the sector reforms coupled with specific
initiatives to organize market-based delivery of services to remote and rural regions and low-
income populations which will help overcome some of these barriers to more effective provision
and use of telecommunications services.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
An ambitious policy statement was followed by drafting of a new pro-competitive
Telecommunications Law: Prior to IDA's assistance in project preparation, the Government had
already adopted a Sector Policy Statement on March 22, 1998 that embodies the principles of
sector liberalization and privatization. The Sector Policy Statement envisaged the establishment
of a new legal and regulatory framework, the gradual introduction of competition into the sector,
the restructuring and corporatizing the postal and telecommunications operator and the



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 14
Country: Mauritania                      Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
privatization of the new telecommunications operator within an ambitious overall time frame of
24 months. To lay down the foundation of the regulatory framework which will be developed
during the project, the Government prepared, under Project Preparation Facility financing, a new
Law on Telecommunications which it adopted following project negotiations. The law is aligned
with WTO principles and embodies provisions against dominant market power, on
interconnection of operators on transparent and non-discriminatory terms and on allocating
licenses through competitive bidding. Finally, to promote a level playing field and in anticipation
of a more competitive telecommunications sector, the Government asked OPT to suspend its
plans to roll out its proposed cellular network until a competing cellular network operator can be
attracted and licensed under the new regulatory framework.
The Government has adapted institutional arrangements to match needs of effective project
preparation: The state monopoly operator is no longer the primary interlocutor in the
Bank/Government dialogue at the time of the Policy Statement. Since then, the Government
established an inter-ministerial committee enabling broader dialogue, with two technical
committees to prepare the new legal and regulatory framework and the privatization process. It
also integrated the telecommunications sector reform into the global public enterprise reform
program initiated by a Ministerial Decision of November 7, 1998. Finally, it established a Special
Procurement Commission for Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reforms by Decree no. 99-
03 of January 6, 1999 to handle all procurement under this project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Government has stressed the value added of the Bank in terms of bringing unique
international experience in helping client countries design telecommunications sector policies and
establish regulatory frameworks. The lessons of Bank experience in assisting similar reforms in
other countries have helped the Government develop a realistic time-table of reforms, which
gives due attention to capacity constraints. Perceived as a neutral party, the Bank can continue to
play a facilitating role in translating the Government's Sector Policy Statement into an action-
oriented reform program. Bank-financed technical assistance in this project will provide timely
support to help achieve critical structural reforms under the Government's macro-economic
program.
E: Issues Requiring Special Attention
1. Economic (see Annex 4)
This project focuses on institutional and policy reforms which, if successfully adopted, will
enable supply and demand of telecommunications to evolve favorably for consumers. Given the
small size and technical assistance nature of the project, a full economic analysis has not been
attemp>ted in Annex 4. However, the qualitative analysis, presented in the annex, explains the
expectation that the reforms supported under this project will contribute positively to sector
development.
2. Financial (See Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact: Three sets of positive fiscal impacts can be expected corresponding to scenarios of
enhanced market response (in terms of both supply and demand for telecommunications services)
to the policy and institutional reforms supported under this project. First, the main
telecommunications operator arising from restructuring of OPT will be subject to the same tax
treatment as all other telecommunications operators, consistent with the policy of putting all
operators on a level playing field. Second, direct and indirect tax revenues related to the
telecommunications sector are expected from increased total turnover of the sector as well as
from increased purchase of telecommunications-related equipment and services by



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 15
Country: Mauritania                      Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
telecommunications providers and by consumers. Third, a capital gain can normally be expected
from Government divestiture of its residual shareholding in the main operator, the size of which
could depend on whether this is done together with or following the sale of an equity stake to a
strategic partner.
3. Technical
The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract and
sustain investment in the telecommunications sector. Under this framework, technology choice in
the sector will be market-driven. By facilitating opening up of mobile services through
appropriate model licenses and competitive bidding, the project is expected to help introduce
wireless communications technologies which are expected to become the predominant means of
communications in line with regional and global trends.
4. Institutional
The implementing agency faces an ambitious schedule for carrying out a set of closely inter-
related project activities which are relatively novel and complex for the Borrower. Project design
has been kept simple to correspond to scarce local expertise particularly in matters of regulation.
An extensively detailed Manual of Procedures prepared by the implementing agency defines
different roles, responsibilities, individual work programs and a timetable which have to be
closely followed for project success. In order to enhance the quality of project governance,
contracts for all project management personnel feature performance criteria linked to the project
timetable and outputs. Local and foreign technical assistance and training are envisaged for the
(I) implementing agency to reinforce its project, financial, and procurement capacity; (ii)Special
Procurement Commission as needed for evaluation of specific tenders; (iii) the Regulatory
Agency to develop its economic, technical, and legal skills; and (iv) the corporatized Post Office
to help implement the corporate strategy which will also be developed under the project.
Y2K assessment: The only Y2K-sensitive project areas are the purchase of (I) frequency
management equipment and information systems for the regulatory agency; and (ii) management
information system for the implementing agency, for both of which procurement documents will
feature a Y2K compliance clause. Like most telecommunications operators worldwide, the main
operator to be restructured and privatized under the project has already started specific
assessment, testing and inventory of existing embedded systems, machinery, switches, and
equipment. OPT has informed the Bank on its Y2K action plan.
5. Social
There are no resettlement or specific social issues in project implementation. Terms of reference
for consultant services for the rural strategy emphasize the importance of assessing information
and communication needs of local communities, especially in remote and traditionally
disadvantaged areas.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category: "C"
There are no environmental issues in this project.
7. Participatory Approach
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The entire senior management team of OPT has
been closely involved in project design from the beginning, including in the preparation of terms
of reference for project consultancy services and of the detailed project implementation timetable.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 16
Country: Mauritania                            Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
Ministers and senior officials of two key ministries - Economic Affairs and Development (with
responsibility for the overall privatization program) and Interior (oversight of the
telecommunications and postal sector) have participated closely in project preparation.
Other key stakeholders: The national workshop  on rural access to  communications and
information services, to be prepared under the project, is designed to draw broad-based
participation from  Government, private sector, civil society and local communities, NGOs and
other development partners.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
By developing an incentive framework for market-based telecommunications and postal service
provision, the project will help accelerate investment and improve service levels as entry by new
private operators increases. Incentives to sustain project objectives include codification of rights
and obligations of the incumbent and new operators not only in legislation and decrees but also in
licenses. Improved service coverage and quality at more competitive telecommunications prices
will be sustained as private investment grows in both telecommunications infrastructure and
services. Empowering the new regulatory agency to charge levies and fees on
telecommunications operators will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without
dependence on budgetary support. Unfulfilled demand for various services in remote and rural
regions will be increasingly satisfied as incomplete markets for telecommunications services are
redressed through specific initiatives to organize financially sustainable community information
centers or other institutions.
In addition, the sustainability of the project will benefit from on-going legal reforms. The legal
component of the Private Sector and Capacity Building project - (Credit 2730-MAU) undertaken
in Mauritania since 1995 was designed to promote private sector development by improving the
legal   and   institutional   framework   and   consolidating   financial   sector   reforms.
Telecommunications and Postal reforms both contribute to and are enhanced by a broader context
of regulatory refonns undertaken by the Government.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The legal and regulatory framework established  M      The mid-term review agenda agreed by Government
does not embody clear rules of the game (with          explicitly covers progress in implementing the
special regard to the transitory exclusivity           regulatory framework.
period) including in licenses
Not all market segments are opened to          S       Up-front commitment to fully open market to
competition at the end of the reform process           competition features in the new telecommunications
law.
Law and decrees are not enforced by the        M       In addition to measures to build capacity in the
Regulatory Agency                                      Regulatory Agency, license agreements will embody
rights and obligations of operators, which enable legal
recourse for dispute settlement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 17
Country: Mauritania                               Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
Adequate provisions for self-financing of the    M        Project provides funding to regulatory agency for first
regulatory agency are not enacted                         three years while fees and levies are defined as new
operator licenses are issued.
Non-transparent competitive bidding process for  M        Telecommunications law explicitly foresees competitive
licenses                                                  bidding for new licenses and public information
campaign will generate constituencies for open,
transparent licensing process.
Non-transparent licensing process for strategic  M        Terms of reference for international consultants clearly
equity stake                                              specify assistance in undertaking an open international
bidding process, to be monitored under Bank
supervision.
Failure to implement a sustainable rural access   H       Implementation strategy will be based on small-scale
strategy                                                  pilot initiatives, which will be closely monitored,
replicated and scaled up depending on results.
The Govemment sacrifices quality in order to     M        An implementation calendar with over 250 time-bound
meet an ambitious reform timetable                        actions was extensively discussed during project
preparation and the realism of time lags tested against
experience of other countries.
Lack of clear allocation of responsibilities     N        Roles, responsibilities and performance criteria of
among different institutions and entities and             Project-financed personnel feature in their contracts and
avoidance of conflict of interest                         are detailed in the Manual of Procedures. The Manual
was endorsed by Government and will be closely
monitored during supervision.
From Components to Outputs
Failure to separate and corporatize              N        Government has committed to this structural refonn
telecommunications and postal entities                    under its macro-economic program and is assisted by
consultancy services under the Project Preparation
Facility.
High global competition for investor funds in     H       Proceeds from the strategic sale will be retained as a part
telecommunications                                        of the capital of the privatized company in accordance
with stated Government policy.
Weak procurement implementation capacity        M        A procurement specialist with knowledge of Bank
procedures was recruited into the TPU. An experienced
Special Procurement Commission was created, which
will be reinforced under the Project.
Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
A.      Government of Mauritania to deposit the first tranche of the counterpart funds equivalent
to 80 Million UM (USD 400,000) representing about a year of project expenditures.
B.      Borrower to select an audit firm for the project.
C.      Borrower to appoint project manager, procurement specialist and financial management
specialist acceptable to IDA.
D.      Borrower to put in place proper computerized accounting and financial management
system in the implementation agency.
2. Other
Conditions to Negotiations:
A.      Draft Manual of Procedures submitted to IDA
B.      Draft Telecommunications Law submitted to IDA



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 18
Country: Mauritania                        Project Title: Ttelecommunications and postal sectors reform project
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C, t,JC 
~ G   indan G. Nair               Emmanuel Forestier                Nadjib Sefta
Team Leader                 Sector Manager                    Acting Country Director



Annex I                                                                                         Page 19
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
Hierarchy of Objectives       Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports.  (from Goal to Bank
Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Mission)
.________ _______ _  Critical Assumptions
1I I Improve living standards  1. I Increased contribution of  - National statistics     - Stable macroeconomic
and competitiveness of        information and communications to   - Semi-annual report from  environment
Mauritanian economy through   value added in all sectors          the Regulatory Agency   - Government of Mauritania
expanding access to basic                                         (RA)                      continued commitment to
infrastructure services                                                                     macroeconomic adjustment
1.2 Promote a strong supply   1.2 Increased level of private
response by creating an       investments associated with
environment conducive to      commercial and technical
private sector development and   management and know-how in
foreign direct investment     various market segments
1.3 Enhance a dynamic and     1.3 Introduction of institutional and
broad-based growth in the rural  technological innovations for
sector, by upgrading,         information access to rural and
diversifying and raising the  traditionally disadvantaged
technological base            communities
Project Development           Outcome t Impact Indicators:      Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
2. Expand access to           2.1 Increased access and quality of   - Semi-annual report from   - Continuous Government
communications and            communications and information      the RA                    commitment to the
information services at more    services at more competitive prices:   - ITU statistics     telecommunications reform
competitive prices through    - I main line/100 inhab. by 2002  - UPU statistics            agenda and timetable
establishing a legal, regulatory   - 0.1 mobile subscribers/l 00 inhab.   - National statistics  - Sufficient supply response
and institutional framework     by 2002                                                    to new incentive structure:
favorable to competitive private  - 0.8 payphones/1000 inhab. by                            an uptake of existing and
provision of                    2002                                                        new services in response to
telecommunications            - 0.6 main lines/100 inhab. outside                           reduction in costs of
infrastructure and services, and  Nouakchott and Nouadhibou by                              communications and
to postal development           2002                                                        information technologies
- Number of faults/line will decrease                         and services
by 20% each year after the                               - Sufficient demand
completion of strategic sale of the                        response: adequate
main telecommunications operator                           capacity exists in various
- Reduced waiting period for                                  sectors i.e. education,
telephone connection                                       health etc. to effectively
- Telecommunications tariff basket                            use new communications
will decrease by 50% in 2002                               and information
2.2 Increased variety of new services                        technologies and services
offered by private operators:
- Cellular service by mid-2000
- Internet access in all regions
- Increased availability of paging
- Diversification of postal service
2.3 Increased level of private
investment in telecom infrastructure
and services:
- Private cellular operator by mid-
2000
- Strategic stake of at least 30% in
the telecom operator by end 2000



Annex I                                                                                       Page 20
Output from each componentv Output Indicators:                Project repots           (from Outputtos  O *jecive
3.1 A coherent legal and     3.1.1 New legal and regulatory   - Telecommunications     - Government does not
regulatory framework         framework:                         Law and related decrees    sacrifice quality of the
promoting a multi-operator   - Telecommunications Law adopted   published in the Journal    reform process to meet
telecommunications market      by Government by 05/1999         Officiel                 ambitious timetable
- Related legal text on                                   - Legal and regulatory
interconnection, universal access,                        framework embodies clear
tariffs, etc. adopted by 12/1999                         rules of the game (with
special regard to the
transitory exclusivity
period) including in
licenses
3.1.2 Regulatory Agency (RA):    Communicated to IDA:    - Law and legal texts are
- Legal text establishing the RA  - Appointment of Board    enforced by RA
adopted by 09/1999               members, Managing     - Adequate provisions for
- Organizational structure, budget,  Director and key staff  self-financing of the RA
operating procedures and three  - Budget finalized and    are enacted
year business plan by 12/1999    approved by Minister
3.1.3 Key telecommunications policy  Communicated to IDA:  - All market segments
and regimes agreed on:           - Sector reports on        opened to competition at
- Interconnection regime by 12/1999    regulatory issues    the end of the reform
- New tariff policy by 12/1999   - Frequency Management    process
- Universal access policy 12/1999  Plan
- Numbering Policy by 06/2000
- Frequency Mgmt Plan 06/2000
3.1.4 New licenses to operators  - License Agreement for   - Transparent competitive
- First cellular license tender    the first cellular       bidding process for
launched by 12/1999 and granted  communications systems    licenses
to a private operator by 03/2000  published and a copy
- Licensing of incremental number  sent IDA
of other new infrastructure   - Semi-annual report from
providers and new service       the RA
providers by end 2002
3.2. Private ownership and                                    Communicated to IDA:    - Transparent licensing
management of the main                                        - Privatization Strategy   process for strategic equity
telecommunications operator                                   - Sale contract            stake
- License Agreement
3.3 National strategy of     3.3.1 Strategy for rural access  Communicated to IDA:     -Implementation of the rural
communications and           prepared by 06/2000              - Rural strategy and action    access strategy
information service delivery to   3.3.2 National workshop on rural  plan
rural and disadvantaged      connectivity and information     - Postal development plan
communities                  applications held in 2000        -                .
3.3.3 Pilot program to improve   - Agenda and participants
universal access designed in 2001  of National Workshop
3.3.4 Postal Law adopted by 12/1999 - Institutions and
3.3.5 Postal development plan      regulatory arrangements
prepared by 03/2000                for the pilot program
3.4 Broad-based understanding   3.4 Media and information campaign  - Consultant Report on
of the opportunities arising from  to increase awareness by all  communications strategy
the new sector structure     stakeholders of new environment    sent to IDA
3.5 Capacity developed in    3.5 Project management,          - Progress reports from  - Clear allocation of
sector reform and project    procurement and financial          TPU                      responsibilities among
management                   management capacity developed                               different institutions to
avoid conflicts of interest



Ainex I                                                                                     Page 21
Project Components / Sub-    Inputs:(budget for each         Project reports:         (from Components to
components:                component)                                                Outputs)
4.1 Telecommunications legal  USD 3.7million                  - TPU progress report
and regulatory framework                                      - Semi-annual RA report
- Intl. consortium composed of                                - Draft laws and decrees
regulatory, economic and                                    - Draft class licenses
technical experts to develop                                - Draft bidding documents
the new telecom regulatory                                    for mobile services and
framework                                                     draft license
- Legal, economic and technical                               - Training plan and study
consultants to RA                                             tour reports
- Regulatory studies                                          - Recommendations for a
- Telecom training                                              frequency management
- Frequency management                                          and monitoring system
equipment for RA                                            - Bidding documents
4.2 Privatization of the main    USD 1.7 million              - Information           - Telecommunications and
telecommunications operator                                     memorandum               postal entities are separated
- Intl. consortium to structure                              - Prospectus               and corporatized
and execute the privatization                              - Bidding documents      - High global competition for
transaction (incl. intl. audit)                            - Consultant report       investor funds in
- Consultant services and                                                              telecommunication is
training to build capacity in                                                         successfully addressed
utility privatization
4.3 Strategy for rural access to  USD 5.3 million
communications and
information services and
postal development
- Intl. and local consultants to
prepare rural strategy
- Workshop on rural strategy
- Consultant services and
equipment to pilot institutional
and technological solutions
- Intl. and local consultants and
equipment to prepare and
implement a postal
development strategy,
including a Postal Law
- Postal Training
4.3 Media and information    USD 0.2 million                  - Communications strategy
campaign                                                        and implementation plan
- Intl. and local consultants to
launch a media campaign
4.5 Capacity building and    USD 0.7 million                  - Periodic progress report  - Sufficient procurement
project management                                              from TPU                capacity
Local consultants and                                       - Disbursement reports
equipment for project                                       - Audit report
management, procurement and
financial management of TPU
and for the Special
Procurement Commission
Project audit



Page 22
Annex 2
Project Description
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
The project consists of five components, all of which mainly involve consultancy services to
provide assistance to implement the postal and telecommunications sector reform program.
Project Component 1 - Establishment of the Legal and Regulatory Framework for the
Telecommunications Sector - USD 3.7 million (31% of total Project Costs)
A.    The project will finance international consultants to assist the Government and
subsequently the new telecommunications Regulatory Agency (RA), once it is established, in:
i)    Setting up the RA through defining an organizational plan and a training program for its
staff: Using consultancy services financed under this component, the implementing agency will
commission the preparation of a three-year business plan for the new RA, which will include an
organizational and staffing plan, a human resource development plan, and a three-year forecast
budget. This plan will help establish the new RA, staff it, and set basic operating and accounting
procedures and systems. Once the RA is operational, a detailed training program will be
established. To assist the staff of the RA to build its intemal capacity as well as discharge key
tasks, a semi-resident regulatory expert will be financed, who will spend at least three months
annually in Mauritania.
(ii)   Formulating and implementing a new regulatory framework: Once the RA is established,
consultancy services will also help formulate and implement several key provisions of the new
regulatory framework which are needed to place the incumbent and new operators on an equal
competitive footing. These notably include:
• An interconnection regime for multi-operator environment: Consultants will assist the RA in
establishing principles for interconnection covering its technical, commercial, and financial
aspects. Consultants will also help the RA prepare model interconnect agreements and
mechanisms to resolve interconnection disputes.
* More cost-oriented tariff structure: Consultants will help the RA study existing tariff structure
and levels applied by the main operator and to analyze options for a more cost-oriented tariff
structure. This will lead to specific recommendations on how to achieve tariff re-balancing
within a reasonable time-frame, taking into account key dates in the reform agenda including
the granting of new cellular licenses and the privatization of the main operator. Options and
recommendations for further tariff adjustments and tariff regulation will be developed along
with recommendations on how these should be reflected in license agreements.
* National frequency management plan and spectrum management system (assignment,
allocation and monitoring): Consultants will assist the RA in formulating a comprehensive
plan for frequency management and assignment, allocation and monitoring of frequency
spectrum use in a more competitive market environment. They will also assist the RA in
identifying specific equipment and information system needs for frequency monitoring and in
procuring such equipment, to be financed under this component as necessary.
* Universal access policy: Consultants will assist the RA in defining a new policy on universal
access obligations and help identify different options for financing universal access objectives.



Page 23
They will also help prepare regulations on this issue and recommend how these issues should
be treated in licenses.
(iii)   Drafting the license and concession agreements for the main telecom operator: Taking
into account related assistance given to the RA on issues of tariff policy, interconnection regime,
and universal access obligations, consultants will help prepare a draft license for the main
operator. This initial draft license document will be the basis for preparing the final main operator
license which will be granted once the privatization transactioni is completed (see below).
(iv)   Preparing class licenses for all service providers and a bidding process to grant the first
cellular license to an independent private operator: Consultants will assist the RA in preparing
class licenses for all services which do not require a specific license and to draft model licenses
for cellular services. They will also help the regulator launch and coniduct a bidding process for
the granting  of the first cellular license to  a private operator other than  the new
telecommunications entity created after the separation of postal and telecommunications activities
within the OPT. Consultants will also prepare the cellular license for the affiliate of the main
operator, ensuring that there is non-discriminatory treatment of all cellular operators.
(v)    Drafting an offer to the WTO: In order for the legal and regulatory framework to be
closely harmonized with emerging global trends, notably those reflected in the Fourth Protocol of
the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) under the aegis of the World Trade
Organization, and given Mauritania's commitment to regional integration and to an outward-
oriented development strategy, consultants will help the Government to prepare an offer to the
WTO in this regard.
B.    Local consultants will staff three RA positions for technical, legal and economic
specialists to help build local capacity in regulatory areas which are relatively complex and novel
for Mauritania under the new telecommunications policy framework.
C.     Hardware and software necessary for the frequency spectrum  management will be
procured by the RA the scope of which will be determined by the consultalnt study also financed
by this project. Management information system for administrative and finanicial management, as
well as licensing and analytical functions will also be procured by the RA.
D.    Further regulatory studies will be undertaken to adapt to market and techniology
developments both in telecommunications as well as other sectors. These studies are expected to
develop concrete recommendations of how the scope and structure of the regulatory body should
further evolve to take account of these developments. One set of at least three studies is expected
to look at the prospects and modalities for extending the scope of the regulatory body to cover
other utility sectors. Another set of studies is expected to look at issues of licensing utilities and
infrastructure providers (e.g. railways) as alternative telecommunications carriers. A third set of
studies is expected to look at issues of technological and market convergence across
broadcasting, telecommunications and computing and across contenit and carriage providers.
E.     Training of RA staff and others in telecommunications and other regulatory matters
through national workshops, study visits, and seminars.



Page 24
Project Component 2 - Preparation and execution of privatization transaction of the
telecommunications operator - USD 1.7 million (14% of total project costs)
A.    The project will finance a consortium of consultants who will provide services to the
Government in three main areas:
(i)    Financial audit and valuation of the main telecommunications operator: A financial audit
of the main telecommunications operator will be undertaken according to international
accounting standards and certified accounts will be produced by an internationally recognized
firm. An initial valuation of the company will also be prepared.
(ii)    Preparation of the privatization strategy for the main telecommunications operator: To
assist the Government in achieving its goal of privatizing the new telecommunications entity,
consultants will prepare a detailed strategy in which a range of privatization options will be
identified within the broad parameters set out in the Government policy statement; potential
investors will be identified; taking into account the regulatory provisions which will have been
defined earlier, the draft license and concession agreement for the main operator will be further
developed; and a detailed marketing strategy will be developed.
(iii)   Execution of the privatization strategy and finalization of sale transaction: Once a
specific privatization strategy is agreed, consultants will help the Government execute this
strategy, by preparing an initial prospectus, organizing a data room, inviting initial expressions of
interest from potential investors, short-listing investors during a second round, selecting and
negotiating with chosen strategic partner; and completing due diligence and finalizing the
transaction.
B.    Through consultancy services and training, the project will help build long-term capacity
to conduct privatization in other major utilities, the national airline and other sectors, drawing on
the experience and capacity built through the flagship privatization in telecommunications.
Project Component 3 - Strategy for rural access to communications and information
services and the postal development - USD 5.3 million (44% of total project costs)
A.    The project will support the development and implementation of a strategy to improve
rural access to communications and informnation services:
(i)    Consultancy services will be used to prepare a national strategy on improving rural
access to communications and information services, by introducing technological and
institutional innovations enabled by the new telecommunications policy framework, including
community information centers, which may not develop spontaneously owing to poor
understanding of the needs of rural and disadvantaged communities and fragmentation of these
markets. This will include the organization of a national workshop for stakeholders in
Government, private sector, civil society and local communities, NGOs, and donor agencies, to
discuss this strategy.
(ii)   In a second stage, consultancy services, training and equipment will be used to
implement a national strategy for improving rural access to communications and information
services. They will include needs assessments for specific rural applications of communications
and information technologies in education, health, etc., workshops aimed at increasing awareness
and co-ordination among stakeholders, and the design, implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation of a limited number of innovative and small-scale pilot projects for which either



Page 25
equipment financing could also be provided by the project or by using mechanism such as the
universal access fund.
B.    Development of the postal sector as a commercially-oriented activity will also be covered
by the project through:
(i)    Consultancy services will prepare a new Postal Law, a postal development plan, and
transitional measures to enable the Post Office to become a corporatized and commercially-
oriented entity. A detailed business strategy will be prepared including marketing, human
resource and product development plans.
(ii)   Training for postal sector restructuring including national workshops, study tours and
training seminars will be provided.
(iii)   Consultancy services and equipment will help the implementation of the integrated postal
development plan to progressively reduce and remove the Government's operating subsidy and to
assist the postal entity to evolve into a financially viable postal, communications and information
service provider.
Project Component 4 - Media and information campaign - USD 0.2 million (2% of total
project costs)
This component will finance consultants to achieve the following goals: (i) informing potential
domestic and foreign investors on new business opportunities created by the reforms; (ii)
building general public support and investor confidence; and (iii) ensuring transparency of the
reform program through wide dissemination of licensing and privatization procedures, disclosure
of results of each transaction, and general information on the overall results and impacts of the
program.
Project Component 5 - Capacity Building and project management - USD 0.7 million (6% of
total project costs)
This component will finance for the project implementation agency, the Telecommunications and
Postal Unit: (i) three locally recruited project management positions -- project manager, financial
specialist, and procurement specialist; (ii) office equipment; and (iii) financial management
assistance. In addition, this component will finance technical assistance to the Special
Procurement Commission to launch and evaluate tenders under this Project and the annual project
audit to be undertaken by an audit firm.



I'age 26
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reforn TA Project
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component              USD         USD         USD
million     million     million
I. Establishment of the legal and regulatory     0.6         2.6         3.2
framework for the telecommunications sector
2. Privatization of the main telecommunications  0.2         1.3          1.5
operator
3. Strategy and piloting of communications and   1.5         3.0         4.5
information service delivery to rural and
disadvantaged communities and for Postal
development
4. Communications and media campaign             0.1         0.1         0.2
5. Capacity building and project management      0.6         0.0         0.6
6. PPF refinancing                               0.1         0.3         0.4
Total Baseline Cost                              3.1         7.3         10.4
Physical Contingencies                          0.3          0.7         1.0
Price Contingencies                             0.2          0.4         0.6
Total Project Costs               3.6         8.4        12.0
Total Financing Required                3.6         8.4        12.0
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Category              USD         USD         USD
million     million     million
Goods and Equipment                               1.5        3.5          5.0
Consultant Services                               1.4         4.0         5.4
Training                                         0.3          0.6         0.9
Operating Expenses                               0.4          0.3         0.7
Total Project Costs    3.6        8.4         12.0
Total Financing Required    3.6         8.4        12.0
1/     Includes the refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility of USD 350,000.



Page 27
Annex 4
Cost-Effectiveness Summary
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project, which provides resources for developing
the regulatory framework and capacity to complete the privatization program and foster a
competitive multi-operator environment in the telecommunications and postal sectors. These
policy and institutional reforms will enable economic benefits which will come from the market
response in terms of both supply and demand for telecommunications services. These benefits are
difficult to quantify without building a detailed model which is beyond the scope of this annex.
Instead, this annex presents a qualitative description and comparison of three scenarios under
which the telecommunications sector could evolve, with and without the project.
Scenario 1. High-growth under prevailing monopoly market structure (without project
interventions)
This scenario envisions a relative optimistic development of the telecommunications sector under
the prevailing monopoly market structure. It is consistent with the target set up by the
Government to reach a teledensity of 1 main line per hundred inhabitants in the year 2000.
However, this target is lower than the one set by the African Telecommunications Green Paper
which envisages an average teledensity of 2% in Africa by the year 2000. OPT plans to reach a
teledensity of 1.3% in 2001 and 1.75% in 2003.
In this scenario, teledensity projections are based on the assumptions that the population and the
GDP will grow at a percentage of 3% and 5% per year respectively, with no changes in the
existing market structure. It is assumed that OPT can sustain its levels of revenues by keeping
tariffs and revenues per line relatively high even though these are expected to fall in response to
world trends, notably changes in the international accounting rate system.
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000      2001     2002      2003
Assumptions
Population           3%
Growth
GDP Growth           5%
Population           2.4     2.47      2.55     2.62     2.70     2.78     2.87     2.95
(millions)
Urban Population     1.2     1.24      1.27     1.31     1.35     1.39     1.43     1.48
GDP ($millions)  1,100.00  1,155.00  1,212.75  1,273.39  1,337.06  1,403.91  1,474.11  1,547.81
GDP ($millions)    458.33   467.23    476.31   485.55   494.98   504.59   514.39   524.38
per capita
Telecom Revenue  2,686.27  2,068.70   1,861.83  1,657.03  1,458.19  1,268.62  1,091.01   938.27
Per line ($)
Number of lines  10,200.00 13,100.00  16,637.00 21,128.99 26,833.82 34,078.95 43,280.26 54,965.94
(growth rate 27%)
Calculations
Teledensity       0.43%    0.53%     0.65%    0.81%    0.99%    1.22%    1.51%    1.86%
Telecom Revenue    2.49%    2.35%    2.55%    2.75%    2.93%    3.08%    3.20%    3.33%
As % of GDP
* * Figures in italics are projection figures.



Page 28
The main conclusion is that OPT's targets could plausibly be met in a high GDP growth scenario.
However, the level of growth in teledensity may be insufficient to sustain the competitiveness of
the Mauritanian economy if its neighboring and competitor countries in exports continue to
benefit from sector reforms as prices of their telecommunications services decline even more
rapidly in line with global trends.
Scenario 2. Telecommunications development with one competing cellular operator
In this scenario, which would be enabled by reforms supported under the project, Mauritania
opens up its telecommunications sector by granting a license to a new private cellular operator
independent from OPT. Possible change in fixed and mobile telephone service penetration -
based on pattems observed in similar market liberalization elsewhere - is presented below. Note
however, that given the long waiting list, we do not expect, in the short run, any substitution
effect of mobile over fixed lines.
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003
Fixed telephone lines       16,637.0  21,128.9  26,833.8  34,078.9  43,280.2  54,965.9
Cellular subscribers        0        200       1500     2 500     6000      12 000
Internet subscribers       250       500       1 500    2 500     3 500     4 500
Teledensity (fixed telephone    0.65%  0.81%   0.99%     1.22%    1.51%     1.86%
lines)
Teledensity (fixed and cellular)  0.65%  0.813%    1.049%    1.225%    1.720%    1.862%
Generally, competition would be expected to induce price reductions, diversification in value
added offerings, improved responsiveness to customers and better quality of service. Even in the
unlikely case depicted above of fixed telephone service levels remaining unchanged relative to
the monopoly market structure scenario, cellular service alone would lead to significant overall
service improvements. In the long run, cellular service could act as a substitute for the often
unreliable fixed service, competition would expand network coverage and hence make cellular
even more attractive. Service affordability and economic growth prospects would continue to
retain their paramount importance in deternining the level of cellular subscriber growth in
Mauritania. While competition would drive operators to orient their tariffs more closely towards
costs, without a specific strategy to enhance service penetration in rural areas, access to
telecommunications would still generally be out of reach for the majority of people in this
market.
Scenario 3. High growth and convergence of Internet, telephony and broadcasting
In this scenario, which could result from successful implementation of the rural access strategy
supported under the project, a strong growth in penetration of internet service and convergence of
various communications services is envisaged. A high growth in the usage of e-mail and Internet
telephony in Mauritania could be realized through community information centers being
established all over the country, particularly given that that a majority of the population in
Mauritania already has access to radio. In a simple form of convergence of telecommunications;
computing and broadcasting technologies, one could envisage development of radio stations into
a kind of paging facility. Radio could be used to announce the arrival of e-mail at a nearby
community information center. Through this and other forms of convergence of telephony,
internet, paging and FM-radio, a relative high percentage of the population could acquire access
to communication services within a few years of network expansion.



Page 29
Annex 5
Financial Summary
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs 1          3.8        4.0        3.4
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.3        0.3
Total Project Costs           4.0        4.3        3.7
Total Financing               4.0        4.3        3.7
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    3.7        3.9        3.2
Government 2                0.3        0.4        0.5
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       4.0        4.3        3.7
Main assumptions:
I /    Investment costs for the first year of implementation includes the refinancing of the
Project Preparation Facility of USD 350,000.
2/     In addition to the above indicated Government counterpart funds, the Government
has also committed to financially assist the restructured postal entity by absorbing
its operating deficit over five years at the end of whiclh is expected to become
financially viable.



Page 30
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Pro'ject
Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Equipment will follow Bank Guidelines on1 Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Selection of Consultants will be based on1 Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997
and January 1999. Mauritania's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence
over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
The project will be implemented by the Telecommunications and Postal Unit (TPU) headed by
the Project Manager. The TPU is overseen by the Para-Public Sector Reforn Program under the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, responsible for coordinatilng the overall
privatization program in Mauritania, including the telecommunications and postal sector
restructuring supported by this project. The Ministry has already extensive experience with
managing Bank projects and its staff is familiar with IDA procedures. However, given the
volume of consultant contracts envisaged under the project, particularly during the first year of
imnplementation, the TPU will be assisted by a (i) Accountanit/Finanicial Managemenit Specialists
and a (ii) Procurement Specialist to monitor procurement activities and ensure timely project
execution.
In Mauritania, all public procurement of works, goods and services on behalf of the state,
government organizations, public enterprises and local governments should be procured in
accordance to the general rules established by Decree n. 93-011 of January 1O, 1993. Article 56
of this Decree establishes the Central Procurement Commission ("Commission Centrale des
Marches") which is in charge of the procurement of all contracts with a contract value equal or
exceeding 10,000,000 UM (approximately USD 50,000). The Country Procurement Assessment
Review of February 1999 and an Institutional Development Grant have both addressed problems
with the capacity of the permanent Central Procurement Commission and provided for its future
reinforcement. In view of the above, procurement under this project will be carried out by the
Special Procurement Commission for the Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform
("Commission speciale des march6s pour la reforme des secteurs des Postes et
Telecommunications"). The Special Procurement Commission was established by Decree n. 99-
03 of January 6, 1999, as derogation to Article 56 of Decree n. 93-01 1 of January 10, 1993, to
expedite procurement under this project while maintaining transparency in the process of contract
awarding. In the past, similar provisions have been made for ad-hoc procurement commissions
responsible for procurement for projects such as the new electric plant of Nouakchott, the
electrification of 13 cities, the Nouakchott-Atar road, a major water managemenit system and a
petrol tank. This arrangement is particularly suited for this technical assistance project given the
high importance of transparency and the short time frame. This Special Procurement Commission
will work closely with the Project Manager and the Procurement Specialist within the TPU. It
will expeditiously handle all procurement matters for the project. This model is also foreseen for
the overall sector reform and privatization program of which the telecommunications and postal
sector reform program, including the privatization of the main telecommullications operator, will



Page 31
the overall sector reform and. privatization program of which the telecommunications and postal
sector reform program, including the privatization of the main telecommunications operator, will
be the first one.
A General Procurement Notice was published in the Development Business No. 507 of March
31, 1999 and will be updated annually for all outstanding procurements. A timetable listing all
procurement steps was prepared with the borrower during identification and has been regularly
updated. A detailed procurement plan of goods and services is annexed to the Manual of
Procedures.
During appraisal, the Government has submitted: (i) the Manual of Procedures including target
time periods for various procurement phases, (ii) the procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation, (iii) the program of a one-day training on the Manual of Procedures for all
stakeholder involved; and (iv) the draft contract to recruit the procurement specialist into the
TPU, to work closely with the Special Procurement Commission.
During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the proper monitoring of procurement. The
Government gave assurances that it will: (i) use the Manual of Procedures a finalized version of
which was submitted and discussed during negotiations, (ii) use the Bank's standard bidding
documents and bid evaluation reports for International Competitive Bidding, (iii) use the Bank's
standard request for proposal, evaluation reports and model contracts for the consultant services;
and (iv) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the Manual of
Procedure.
The Manual of Procedures was approved during negotiations and is referenced in the
Development Credit Agreement. The Government has agreed with the principle that the Manual
of Procedures would only be modified with prior IDA approval. The procurement plan will be
updated on regular basis, in particular during semi-annual reviews to compare target times and
actual completion. The Government also gave assurance during the negotiations that it will take
the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following targets
periods mentioned below:
Procurement phases:                     Maximum time frame:
- Preparation of bidding document       6 weeks (3 weeks for small contracts)
- Preparation of bids by bidders        6-12 weeks (3 weeks for small contracts)
- Bid evaluation                        4 weeks (2 weeks for small contracts)
- Signature of contracts                2 weeks
During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts
transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement
confirmation will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt recording of contract award
information by the Telecommunications and Postal Unit and (b) comprehensive quarterly reports
by the Telecommunications and Postal Unit indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies, (ii)
revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award
and experience with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts; and (iii)
compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



Page 32
1. Procurement methods (Table A)
1.1 Goods and Equipment (USD 5.0 million)
Procurement of Goods and Equipment will followBank Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. The project will mainly support the procurement of (i) frequency managing and
monitoring equipment; (ii) equipment to support postal sector development, (iii) equipment for
pilot activities for universal access to communications and information services; and (iv)
management information systems (MIS), computer software and hardware, other office
equipment, furniture and supply for the Regulatory Agency, for the Telecommunications and
Postal Unit, as well as for the Special Procurement Agency.
1.1.1 International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (USD 3.5 million)
Except otherwise provided below, goods and equipment shall be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines. Invitations to
pre-qualify or bid for contracts procured under ICB will be advertised in Specific Procurement
Notices in at least one newspaper of national circulation, and preferably in international press and
in the Development Business. To the extend practicable, contracts for goods and equipment for
pilot activities shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost USD 50,000 equivalent or more
each.
1.1.2 National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (USD 1.2 million)
Contracts for the purchase of goods and equipment valued at less than USD 100,000 per contract
may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
1.1.3 International and National Shopping (USD 0.3 million)
The management information systems, computer hardware and software, other office equipment
and furniture, estimated to cost less than USD 5,000 per contract up to an aggregate not to exceed
USD 0.3 million may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of prudent national
shopping based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers and in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
1.2 Consultant Services, Studies, Training and Workshops (USD 6.3 million)
Consultancy services would be contracted following procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals and
Conditions of Contract as developed by the Bank would be used for all contracts. Simplified
contracts may be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding three months, carried
out by firms or individuals.
The project will support consultant services in the telecommunications and postal sector mainly
for (i) the establishment of the legal and regulatory framework, (ii) the execution of the
privatization transaction of the main telecommunications operator, (iii) the development of the
post, (iv) the preparation of a rural access strategy, (v) the launching of a communications
campaign; and (vi) capacity building purposes.
Contracts above USD 200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business to obtain
expression of interest before establishing the short-lists. Two Specific Procurement Notices



Page 33
requesting expression of interest from consultants interested to assist the Government (i) in the
preparation of the new telecommunications regulatory framework and (ii) in the preparation and
execution of the privatization of the main telecommunications operator; have been already
published in the 491 issue of Development Business, dated 31 July 1998.
1.2.1 Quality and Cost Based Selection (USD 2.8 million)
Consultant services for technical assistance, studies and training financed under this project shall
be normally selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the
selection is based on Quality and Costs (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before
combining quality and cost evaluation. Short lists may comprise, on exceptional basis and with
the Bank's prior agreement, entirely national consultants, if the assignment is below USD 50,000
in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 2.7 of the Guidelines.
1.2.2 Consultant Qualification (USD 1.1 million)
For specialized assignments, for which the need of preparing and evaluating competitive
proposals is not justifiable, the Borrower may prepare TORs, request expressions of interest and
information on consultants experience and competence relevant to assignment, establish a short
list, and select the firm with the most appropriate qualifications and references in accordance to
the provisions in Paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. Consultancies such as (i) the implementation
of the postal development plan, (ii) the design of institutional and technological piloting to
increase rural access and (iii) the organization of a National Rural Workshop may require the
services oc several consulting firms to be selected based on consultant qualifications. UN
Agencies and NGOs may be included in the short list, as participation and local knowledge is
essential for carrying out the assignment; and will be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14 of the Guidelines.
1.2.3 Single-Source Selection (USD 0.2 million)
In exceptional cases, tasks valued at less than USD 25,000 that represent a natural continuation of
previous work carried out, where a rapid selection is essential, for very small assignments or
when only one firm is qualified or has experience of exceptional worth for the assignment, a
single source selection may be used with IDA prior agreement and in accordance with the
provisions of Paragraphs 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 of the Guidelines.
1.2.4 Individual Consultants (USD 2.1 million)
Services valued at less than USD 50,000 per contract which do not require firms may be procured
by Individual Consultants e.g. for small assignments, studies, organization of or lecturing at a
seminars, workshops or study tours will be selected through comparison of qualification and
experience among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly in
accordance of the provisions of Section V of the Guidelines.
The project manager, the procurement agent and the financial management agent/accountant for
the Telecommunications and Postal Unit, as well as the legal, economic and technical experts for
the Regulatory Agency will be recruited with IDA non-objection based on comparison of three
resumes proposed by the Government.
1.2.5 Training (USD 0.1 million)
The project will finance training in postal, telecommunications, privatization and other relevant
fields in the country and abroad. The program containing names of candidates, cost estimates,
courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually.
The Government will also submit a final report not later than three months after the training was
completed.



Page 34
1.3 Operating expenses (USD 0.3 million)
1.3.1 Project Audit (USD 0.1 million)
For audits of standard nature, such as the project audit, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be
used: the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided technical proposals received the
minimal score.
1.3.2 Other operating costs (USD 0.2 million)
Other operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred in the Telecommunications
and Postal Unit, the Special Procurement Commission or the Regulatory Agency on account of
program implementation, management and supervision, including rent, office supplies and small
office equipment, operation and maintenance, administrative and secretarial support but excludes
salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service, the purchase of vehicles or petrol.
2. Prior review thresholds (Table B)
2.1 Goods and Equipment
All contracts for procurement of goods costing more than USD 100.000 per contract will be
subject to IDA prior review. All other contracts will require post review. The review process is
expected to cover about 80% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods.
2.2 Services
Prior review will be required for consultancy services valued at more than USD 50,000
equivalent per contract with firms and at more than USD 10,000 per contract with individuals.
The project audit in any case will be subject to prior-review. The technical evaluation report will
be submitted for IDA non-objection before the financial envelops are opened. All other contracts
will be subjected to post review. However, this exception for prior review will not apply to
amendments of contracts with firms raising the contact value to USD 50,000, amendments of
contracts with firms raising the contact value with individuals to USD 10,000, to services
procured by single-source selection and to assignments of critical nature as determined by IDA.
For training abroad or in the country, the program containing names of candidates, cost estimates,
courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually.
The review process is expected to cover 90% of the total value of the amount contracted for
consultant services. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will
apply to about one in three contracts a year.
2.3 Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The IDA credit will be disbursed against (i) for goods: 100% of foreign expenditure, 70% of
local expenditure (ex-factory cost); (ii) for consultants, including training, workshops and study
tours: 100% of foreign expenditure and 70% of local expenditure; and for (iii) operating expenses
including project audit: 50% of expenditures. The IDA Credit will be disbursed over a period of
36 months (from July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2002).



Page 35
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
Withdrawal applications shall be fully documented for all expenditures against wlhichi credit
disbursements would be made, except for the following contracts for which credit disbursement
would be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Project Manager: (a) goods
under contacts costing less than USD 100,000 equivalent each; (b) contacts of consulting firms
costing less than US $50,000 equivalent each or with individuals costilng less than US $10,000
each, (c) incremental operations costs and (d) training. Documents supporting the SOE shall be
retained by the TPU and made available for review as requested by auditors (including technical
audits) and by the World Bank supervision missions.
Special account
In order to expedite disbursement and ensure that funds for the project are available as needed,
the Government would open and maintain a Special Account for IDA share of eligible
expenditure in a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA for the duration of the project. The
authorized allocations of the Special Account will be USD 1,000,000 representing about four
months of project expenditures. IDA will make an initial deposit of USD 500,000 once the credit
is declared effective and the TPU prepares and submits a withdrawal application for the said
amount to the Bank. The remaining balance will be made available as sooIn as cumulative
disbursements reaches SDR 2,000,000. The Special Account will be managed by the Project
Manager who will be also responsible for certifying disbursement requests.
Government counterparts (USD 1.2 million)
The Government's counterpart funds needed to cover 50% of local operating expenses including
project audit and 30% of local costs of goods and consultant services and will be deposited by the
Government in a Project Account at a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA. The Governmelnt
will make an initial deposit of UM 80 million (approximately USD 400,000) representing about a
year of project expenditures which will be a condition to project effectiveness, and will
subsequently replenish the account on a yearly basis. The Government counterpart funds will also
include the financing of a three-year digressive subsidy to the new postal entity.
Financial Management
During appraisal an action plan for the establishment of a financial management system has been
agreed on between the Bank and the Telecommunication and Postal Unit (TPU). According to
this plan, a system for cash management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting
would be fully in place prior to project effectiveness. The TPU will establish a financial
management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide the TPU and fDA with accurate and
timely information regarding resources and expenditures. In addition, before effectiveness a (i)
full-time project accountant/financial management specialist will be recruited, (ii) a Y2K
compliant financial management software will be purchased; and (iii) an external audit firm will
be contracted. The financial management system will include accounting, financial reporting and
auditing elements.
Accounting/Financial Management
During appraisal it was assessed by a certified financial management specialist on tlle project
team that the internal account controls for the project are set out in the finanicial procedures of the



Page 36
Manuel of Procedures which is satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts are
properly recorded and resources safeguarded. An action plan was proposed to set up the financial
management system prior to effectiveness. It was required that (i) a more detailed description of
the administrative, accounting and financial management system be annexed to the Manual of
Procedures, (ii) a Y2K compliant financial management software be purchased for the TPU and
(iii) its personnel trained in using it. The consultant assisting the Government in the preparation
of the Manual of Procedure will assist the TPU in the above tasks strictly following the time-
based action plan annexed to the Manual of Procedures. Setting up the financial management
system and the purchase of the appropriate software are both conditions to effectiveness.
Financial reporting
The TPU will provide quarterly activity reports. The annual financial statements of the project
will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Mauritania and
will include at least (i) a summary of sources and uses of funds, (ii) project balance statement,
and (iii) a statement of the special account. The financial statements will be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
In accordance to the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), during appraisal it was
assessed by a certified financial management specialist on the project team that the project
satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirement (see above). However, the
project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project using
Project Management Reports (PMR) based disbursements. While the assessment has found that
the PMR procedures would not be appropriate for the Project initially, there is a need to ensure
that the systems put in place are operating effectively. The monitorilg and evaluation process
will include quarterly activity reports, which are consistent with the PMR requirements. A time-
based action plan has been designed to strengthen the financial management system and to
develop no later than thirty months after project effectiveness a system acceptable to IDA for the
preparation of quarterly PMRs. The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will
be reviewed as part of a supervision mission eighteen months after effectiveness to assess when
exactly it would be appropriate to move to PMR disbursements.
Auditing
The financial statements of the project will be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. The auditor will provide an opinion on: (i) the project's financial statements,
(ii) statement of expenditures, (iii) special accounts and (iv) a management report on internal
controls outlining any recommendation for improving internal accounting controls identified as a
result of the financial statement audit. The selection of an appropriate auditor is a condition to
effectiveness.



Page 37
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(USD million equivalent)
Procurement   Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Otherl    N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Goods and Equipement    3.5            1.2          0.3        0.0          5.0
_(3.5)       (0.9)        (0.2)      (0.0)        (4.6)
2. Consultant Services2      0.0          0.0          6.3        0.0          6.3
(0.0)       (0.0)         (5.7)      (0.0)        (5.7)
3. Operating Expenses3       0.0          0.0          0.7        0.0          0.7
(0.0)       (0.0)        (0.5)       (0.0)        (0.5)
Total                     3.5          1.2          7.3        0.0          12.0
(3.5)       (0.9)         (6.4)      (0.0)        10.8
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(USD million equivalent)
Consultant                            Selection   Method
Services                                                                    Total
Expenditure   QCBS   QBS    SFB         LCS4        CQ      Other  N.B.F.    Cost
Category
A. Firms         2.8     0.0    0.0        0.1       1.1       0.2     0.0      4.2
(2.8)   (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (1.0)    (0.1)   (0.0)    (3.9)
B. Individuals   0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0       0.0       2.1     0.0      2.1
(0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)    (1.8)   (0.0)    (1.8)
Total   2.8    0.0    0.0         0.1        1.1      2.3     0.0       6.3
(2.8)   (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (1.0)    (1.9)   (0.0)    (5.7)
1/    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
2/    Include training, workshops and study tours.
3/    Include the project audit, other incremental operating costs and the refinancing of the Project
Preparation Facility of USD 350,000.
4/    Includes the project audit, which is part of the operating expenses.
Note: QCBS  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single-Source Selection, Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.
All costs include contingencies



Page 38
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                           Contracts Subject to |
Expenditure              Threshold            Procurement           Prior Review
Category             (USD thousands)           Method             (USD millions)
1. Goods and Equipment   USD 100,000 and above        ICB, NCB            Prior Review:
USD 4.0 million
Below USD 100,000           NCB,               Post Review
National/International
Shopping
2. Consultant Services          FIRMS:
IUSD 50,000 and above       QCBS/CQ           Prior Review (DB
announcement,
technical evaluation
receives IDA non-
objection before
opening financial
proposals.)
USD 3.5 million
Below USD 50,000             CQ                Post Review
INDIVIDUALS:
Prior Review:
USD 10,000 and above   Comparison of 3 CVs    USD 2.0 million
Post Review
Below USD 10,000     Comparison of 3 CVs
3. Operating Expenses     USD 10,000 and above    Project Audit: LCS      Prior Review
USD 0.1 million
USD 9.6 million
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  corresponding to about 80% of project
cost including PPF refinancing
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:
One every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Page 39
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category    Amount in USD           Financing Percentage
million
Goods and Equipment             4.2        100% of foreign expenditure, 70% of
local expenditures
Consultant Services'            5.2        100% of foreign expenditure, 70% of
local expenditures
Incremental Operating Cost      0.1        50% of expenditures
Project Preparation Facility    0.4
Unallocated                     0.9
Total Credit                    10.8
1/    Include training, workshops and Study Tours.



Page 40
Annex 7
Project Processing Schedule
MAURITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
Project Schedule                 Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        9                  11
First Bank mission (identification)            07/05/98           07/05/98
Appraisal mission departure                    03/01/99           04/16/99
Negotiations                                   03/15/99           05/03/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/15/99           07/01/99
Prepared by:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
Ministry of Interior, Post and Telecommunications
Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT)
Preparation assistance:
PPF: USD350 000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Core project preparation team:
Govindan Nair                    Task Team Leader/Senior Economist, EMTTI
Yann Burtin                       Operations Analyst, EMTTI
Monika Hencsey                   Telecommunications Specialist, EMTTI
Cina Lawson                      Telecommunications & Financial Specialist, EMTTI
Cheikh Abdallahi Ould Houeibib   Economist, Resident Mission of Mauritania, AFMMR
Ahmedou Ould Hamed               Procurement Officer, Resident Mission of Mauritania, AFMMR
Abdoulaye Coulibaly              Financial Management Specialist, Resident Mission of Mali, AFMML
Other staff contributing:
David Satola                     Telecommunications Lawyer, LEGPS
Hans Wabnitz                     Country Counsel, LEGAF
Bernard Abeille                   Principal Procurement Specialist, AFTS2
Kashmira Daruwalla                Procurement Analyst, EMTTI
Magaye Gaye                      Financial Management Specialist, AFTS2
Wolfgang Chadab                  Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Francoise Perrot                 Operations Analyst, AFC 15
Maureen Blassou                  Program Assistant, EMTTI
Lucy Cueille                     Language Team Assistant, EMTTI
Quality Assurance Team:
Paul Ballard                     Principal Industrial Economist, AFPTI
Bertrand Ah-Sue                  Senior Procurement Specialist, EACCF
Siaka Bakayoko                   Financial Management Specialist, AFTS2



Page 41
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
MAIJRITANIA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform TA Project
A. Bank Documents
Project Implementation Plan (in Microsoft Project)
Project Information Document
Telecoms Aide-Memoire to May 1998 Bank/IMF mission
Identification Mission Aide-Memoire
Minutes of the PCD Review Meeting
Pre-Appraisal Aide-Memoire
Identification and Pre-appraisal Missions Back to Office Report
Appraisal Aide-Memoire
Appraisal Mission Back to Office Report
B. Others
Videoconference Document on Logframe (Discussed prior to Pre-appraisal Mission)
Project Preparation Facility Letter of Agreement
C. Documents Provided by the GOM:
Manual of Procedures
Procurement Plan for Goods and Services
Telecommunications Law adopted by Government
* Including electronic files



Page 42
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Operations Portfolio
As of 03-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                     disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 33
Active Projects
MR-PE-55003      1999   GOV OF MAURITANIE                  NUTRITION (LIL)                            0.00        4.90         0.00               4.90         0.00        0.00
MR-PE-35689      1998   MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCI          HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                       0.00       24.00         0.00              23.20         3.52        0.00
MR-PE-1875       1997   GOVERNMENT                         RAINFED NAT RES MGT                        0.00       18.00         0.00              15.13          .81        0.00
MR-PE-46650      1997   OMVS                               REGIONAL POWER                             0.00       11.10         0.00               8.29         5.64        0.00
MR-PE-1874       1996   MINISTRY OF PLAN                   PUBLIC RESOURCE MGMT                       0.00       21.14         0.00               3.90         1.56       -1.47
MR-PE-34106      1996   ISL. REP. OF MTA                   INFRAST & PILOT DEC.                       0.00       14.00         0.00               9.24         9.33        0.00
MR-PE-1857       1995   GOVT OF MAURITANIA                 GENERAL EDUCATION PR                       0.00       35.00         0.00              18.02        19.15        0.00
MR-PE-38661      1995                                      FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                       0.00        7.20         0.00               2.08         2.79        2.79
MR-PE-1864       1994   GOVERNMENT                         AGRIC SERVICES                             0.00       18.20         0.00               5.92         3.32        0.00
MR-PE-1872       1993   GOVERNMENT                         TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                       0.00       12.50         0.00               6.24         6.36        0.00
Total                                                                                                 0.00      166.04         0.00              96.92       52.48         1.32
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    64.75              497.68           r  562.43
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               162.04              162.04
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   166.04              322.53               488.57
Amount sold                                         0.00                63.35               63.35
Of which repaid               :                  0.00               63.35                63.35
Total Undisbursed                 :                96.92                 2.74               99.66
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



Page 43
Annex 9
Mauritania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval      Company      Credit  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Credit  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996      AEF Mayo Fish   0.00    0.00    .24       0.00    0.00      0.00     .24    0.00
1996       GBM             4.00    .20      0.00    0.00    4.00       .14    0.00    0.00
1997       AEF Codipal      0.00    0.00    .47     0.00    0.00      0.00     .47    0.00
1997      AEF STEP          .69     0.00    0.00    0.00    .69       0.00    0.00    0.00
1997       BMCI            14.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    14.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:     18.69    .20     .71     0.00    18.69      .14      .71    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Credit  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Commitment:



Mauritania at a glance                                                               10/1/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Mauritania    Afrita  Income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (mitlions)                        2A4      614      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    450        600      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      1t1        309      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population f%)                                         2.5       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%J                                        2.7       26        2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  50
Urban population (% of total population)               54         32       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       53         52       59 |
Infant mortlty (per 1000 live births)                  92         90       78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             48                 61                Access to safe water
Acces tosafe water (% of population)                   76         44       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   62         43       47
Gross pimary enroltment (% of school-age population)   78         75       91                   Mauritania
Male                                                 85         82      100                   Low-income group
Female                                               72        67        81 el;_
KEY ECON.OMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                           0.52     0.80      1t1        1..
Gross domestic investment/GOP                42.4     30.6      22.1      19.0
Expofts of goods and sereces/GDP             38.5     56.4      53.6      453                     Trade
Gross domestic sarNngsfGDP                    2.9      7.7      13,9      13.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   20.2      3.2      17;3      15.6
Current account balance/GDP                          -27.4      -4.7      -3.4
Interest payments/GOP                         1.S      3.9      27        3.0     Domestic                    Investment
Total debVGDP                                77.6    217.8     220.7    216.5      Savings
Total debt service/exports                   12.5     20.6      17.7      17.2
Present value of debt/GDP                       .              1451 
Present value of debt/exports                  .        ,      248.0
Indebtdness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  1.6      3.3      4.7     :S1         4,6                   Mauritania
GNPpercapita                        1.1       1.0      1.9       2.9       2.1                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.8     -0.9      7:3     -15.6      .o3                     _ 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  28.5     26.6      24.8      25.5     40
Industry                                     33.9     31.1      31.6      29.0     20                     /
Manufacturing                                ..    13.1        12.0      9.7       0
Services                                     37.7     42.2      43.6      45.5    -20      92   93  9      95   9      -
Private consumption                          65.2     80.5      72.2      74.6     40
General government consumption               31.8     11.8      13.9      12.2                     GDI      O  GDP
Imports of goods and services                77.9     79.3      61.8      51.0
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   3.2      3.2       3.3       9.6    40
Industry                                      2.6      2.6       2.9      -1.8
Manufacturing                                 .      0.1        9.4    -15.3    20-2/ 
Services                                     -0.1      3.8       7.2       7.5
Private consumption                           3.1      3.3      -3.1      13.4
General government consumpton                -9.9      6.6       3.1      -8.0
Gross domestic investment                    -2.0      0.0      27.5      -9.5   -20
Imports of goods and services                 1.6    -0.9        3.0    -11.4                   Exports  -Imports
Gross national product                        1.5      3.6       4.5       5.5   .       _ r . , .
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                                                .477.4 4.7  5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                           6.0       7.3       3.5        5.7
5
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                       I
Current revenue                                  ..    24.8        30.5       26.4             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                           ..    -0 9        12.8        9.6                    GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -8.3         6.6        4.2     _
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)l
Total exports (fob)                               --     418        485       413      900
Iron                                           ..      142        207        216
Fish      (i                                           274        277        197     400
Manufactures                                    .
Total imports (cif)                              ..      400        435       380
Food                                           ..       91         97         85     200
Fuel and energy                                         27        109         95
Capital goods                                          161         85         68
91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       83        100       101
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       83        102        96                 a Exports     A Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      100         97       105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                  201       453        586       497       0
Imports of goods and services                  353       637        676       560
Resource balance                               -152     -184        -89        -63
Net income                                     -59       -70        676        52
Net current transfers                             ..      34         94        78
Current account balance                                 -220        -52        -37     -10
Financing items (net)                            ..      210        101        92
Changes in net reserves                         -13       10        -50        -55    |15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           82       53        145       204
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               45.0     74.4      137.2      151.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (US5 millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            407    1,749      2,415      2,376
IBRD                                            0       69          8         6                         A: 6
IDA                                            19       77        359       372                2 G 218          B 372
Total debt service                               26       94        113         96
lBRD                                           0        10          3         2
IDA                                             0        1          4         5                                       C:119
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               115       71        176       140
Official creditors                            113      130         58        3356
Private creditors                             53        3          24         -2        E. 1,075
Foreign direct investment                       2        5          5         3
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     3       29         35        29      A-IBRD                         E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                   5       23         36        34      B-IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        6          4         4      0C - MF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       5       16         32        30    1                                            8
Interest payments                               0        5          3         3
Net transfers                                   5       11         29        27
World Bank                                                                                                                10/1/98
MRTCAAGB



IBRD 25935
S nssh   --s'    ALGERIA
MAUkITANIA:   Q                                       3Q0            MAUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITANIA
~~~RA LOADS   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                , ~~~~~ NIGER
±    A$.PQRT&   -                       MO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROCCO   28KOTE DWOIREt   LA
~~~~~To Tindouf       -nd  ny other informoti- sh-ut o
~~~NTERNAflONAi,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        t~~~hin map do nof imply, on tho port of
on the Iegol stuts of coy territory,o
I           an~~~~y end-.orsm t or a-rptn-o of
-uh boundor;os.
100  20  3                                                       N,.   ~~~~~ALGERIA 26
To La'You. ~     orh 
2FORMER   jTRSN
SPANISH   I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZEMMOUR            A24-
SAHARA9
Fd6ri  Z ~~ouhrine                       ae3                  
c             ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/ HODH ECH 
,0goI& Ft   t1O5OO~  idiko~~~Tihi         /     CHAR GUI 
RARZA        7' 'U/1B
.KA   ~~~~,ut~~~1~~chekket      /Iult
Rkiz         e%        uro            HORIt            e
dr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'I
Ka~ **i2K u16 l    HI                                :  AmouI49  ,'Bossikounouj      6
,~~   O~~~+4( ~ Kankossa,\                                                 1641e  a
SENEGAL   GuyeM AL I
14~~~~~ 1   ~ ~ ~ 16'~             14'               1                  10-                B'                6           1 4'-
FEBRUARY 1 995



