                     Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                Report No: 29430

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (PPFI-Q1330 IDA-32380)

                        ON A

                       CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10.8 MILLION

            TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF

                    MAURITANIA

                       FOR A

TELECOMMUNICATION AND POSTAL SECTORS REFORM PROJECT




                     June 23, 2004

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 14, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas
                                  100 MRO = US$ 0.3930
                                     US$ 1 = 254.39 MRO

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1   June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APAUS   Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel aux Services (Agency for Promotion of Universal
        Access Services)
ARM     Autorité de Régulation de Mauritanie (Mauritania Regulatory Authority)
CAGR    Compound Annual Growth Rate
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFC     Corporate Financial Services
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
GMPCS   Global Mobile Personal Communications System
GSM     Global System for Mobile Services
HIPC    Highly-Indebted Poor Countries
IFC     International Finance Corporation
OPT     Office des Postes et Télécommunications (Office of Posts and Telecommunications)
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PMU     Project Management Unit


                            Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                         Country Director       David A. Craig
                           Sector Manager       Pierre Guislain
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Svetoslav Tintchev

                                        MAURITANIA
              TELECOMMUNICATION AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39
Annex 8. Government's Contribution                                               40
Annex 9. Partner Comments                                                        49

Project ID: P063791                                                  Project Name: Mauritania: Telecommunication and
                                                                     Postal Sector Reform
Team Leader: Svetoslav K. Tintchev                                   TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mauritania: Telecommunication and Postal                 L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1330; IDA-32380
                            Sector Reform
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (90%); Postal services (9%);
                            Telecommunications (1%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/29/1998                                     Effective:                           11/29/1999
     Appraisal: 03/09/1999                                         MTR:                             08/22/2000
      Approval: 06/10/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV OF MAURITANIA/MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND
                                           DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Pierre A. Guislain                             Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:             Svetoslav Tintchev                             Govindan Nair
ICR Primary Author:             Alexandre Serot; Svetoslav K.
                                Tintchev


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

During the mid 1990s, Mauritania was characterized by an underdeveloped information
infrastructure. It had low fixed line penetration (0.53 percent in 1997), high telephone tariffs, a
substantial rural urban access gap, no mobile services and limited and high cost of access to
Internet services. Postal services were also unreliable. This poor performance record was largely
explained by the inadequacy of the policy, legal and regulatory frameworks in place. There was
little, if any, competition in the telecommunications sector. The entity in charge of providing
telecommunications services, the Office des Postes et Télécommunications (OPT) also supplied
postal services. As a public company, it also carried out virtually all regulatory functions on behalf
of the Ministry in charge of the sector, the Ministry of Interior.

The development objective of the project was to expand access to communications and
information services at more competitive prices through the development of a legal, regulatory
and institutional framework favorable to competitive private provision of telecommunications
infrastructure and services, and postal development.

The objective of the project was clear, realistic and important for the development priorities of
Mauritania. It closely reflected the Government's development goal to reduce poverty through
"accelerated private sector-led growth" stated in the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Mauritania and supported the different pillars of the Government's strategy. Furthermore, it was
highly consistent with the Government's objectives and policy measures defined in its Policy
Statement for the Post and Telecommunications Sector adopted March 22 1998. This policy
statement constituted a clear illustration of the strong Government commitment to the reform
agenda.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

To achieve its development objective, the project included five components as described in the
project appraisal document (PAD):

Component 1: Establishment of the Legal and Regulatory Framework for the
Telecommunications Sector (US$3.2M, 31 percent of project cost).

This component consisted of technical assistance to be made available to the Government and
later to the regulator, once created, to: (a) contribute to setting up the regulator; (b) formulate
and implement a new regulatory framework and key provisions (including for interconnection,
tariffs regulation, frequency management, etc.); (c) draft the license and concession agreement of
the incumbent operator; (d) prepare class licenses and a bidding process to award the first license
to a new operator; and (e) draft a WTO offer to be submitted by the government thereafter. The
financing of technical, legal and economic expertise at the regulatory agency was also envisioned.


                                                - 2 -

Capacity building activities also included training of the regulator's staff and other key actors in
telecommunications and regulatory matters, national workshops, study tours and seminars.
Additional studies aimed at developing operational recommendations on three identified
regulatory themes were to be financed. Finally, the hardware and software for frequency
management as well as for the management information system of the regulator were to be
procured.

Component 2: Preparation and execution of privatization of the telecommunications
operator (US$1.7 million, 14 percent of project cost).

This component aimed at supporting the Government in developing and implementing its
privatization strategy by financing a consortium of consultants that would: (a) carry out a financial
audit, certified accounts, and provide an initial valuation of the incumbent operator; (b) prepare
and (c) execute the privatization strategy and finalize the transaction. The project was also to
contribute to building long term capacity to conduct privatization in other utilities through
consultancy services.

Component 3: Strategy for rural access to communications and information services and
the postal development (US$ 5.3 million, 44 percent of project cost).

This component comprised two sub-components. In the Development Credit Agreement, these
sub-components were two stand-alone components. The rural access sub-component was
designed to: (a) finance consultants for the development of a strategy to improve access to
services in rural areas and national workshops; (b) support the implementation of the strategy by
financing further consultancy services, training, workshops, pilot projects and possibly equipment.
The second sub-component aimed at supporting the development of the postal sector as a
commercially-orientated activity through the use of (a) consultancy services to prepare a new
postal law, a postal development plan and transitory measures to enable the Post Office to
become a commercially-orientated corporation; (b) training for postal sector restructuring
(including national workshops, study tours and training seminars); and (c) consultancy services
and equipment to enhance the implementation of the postal plan to progressively reduce and
remove the government operating subsidy, and to assist the postal entity into a financially viable,
postal, communications and information service provider.

Component 4: Media and information campaign (US$ 0.2 million, 2 percent of project
cost).

Consultant's services were to be financed by the project in order to inform potential investors on
business opportunities induced by the reforms. In addition, this component aimed to build public
support and investor confidence for the reform and to promote transparency of the reform
program through wide dissemination of results and impact.

Component 5: Capacity building and project management (US$ 0.7 million, 6 percent of
project cost).




                                                - 3 -

The objective of the last component of the project was to finance the project implementation
agency (hiring 3 local staff: project manager, financial specialist, procurement specialist), office
equipment, and financial management assistance as well as technical assistance to the Special
Procurement Commission to launch and evaluate tenders and annual project audits.

The project components were directly related to the achievement of the project objective. They
were specifically designed to meet capacity building needs and telecommunications sector
challenges, in particular the inadequacy of the legal and regulatory framework that prevented
private participation and competition, hence hindering sector development and the expansion of
access to services. While the implementing agency faced a complex set of project activities to be
carried out, the Bank project team, working intensively with its Mauritanian counterparts,
prepared a detailed manual of procedures, draft terms of reference and a very detailed action plan.
Technical assistance was also to be provided under the project to enhance the administrative and
financial skills of the implementing agency. The project design adequately took into account
relevant lessons from previous operations in Mauritania (with respect to project implementation
capacity and the need for government commitment in particular) and in the telecommunications
sector in other countries.

Although well articulated, the design of the support to the postal sector was not as thorough as
for the component concerned with the telecommunications sector. At that time, the Bank's
practice in the postal sector was not well developed, and international experience with successful
reform in the sector in developing countries was also very limited. Still, though the Government
did not have a well articulated vision/strategy for the development of this sector, it insisted on
including support to the postal sector in the project. Additional quantitative and qualitative
indicators could have been included to ease the monitoring of the incumbent postal operator's
performance and the development of this sector.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

   The project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group. The quality of the project at
   entry was rated satisfactory. Project preparation was the result of a participatory approach and
   an intensive collaboration between the Government, the Bank and other relevant stakeholders.
   The inclusive nature of the project definition process and policy dialogue was conducive to a
   strong ownership of the project and created powerful incentives and commitment to its timely
   implementation. Even before project preparation started, the Bank had conducted intense
   policy dialogue and consensus building activities (e.g. a workshop involving officials and
   private sector actors) outlining the need to reform the telecommunications sector, the options
   to improve sector performance and the benefits to be derived from policy change. As a result of
   these activities, a very broad consensus existed and key actors (including the head of the OPT)
   were fully committed to ensure the success of the reform. The whole process of project
   preparation allowed the sharing of global knowledge and international best/worst practices and
   its adaptation to local circumstances. In order to ensure a smooth and effective project


                                                - 4 -

   implementation in a context of weak institutional capacity, appropriate measures were adopted,
   including design of a precise implementation time table, creation of the implementing agency
   and the Special Procurement Commission for the project, and inclusion in the project of a
   specific component aimed at developing project management and procurement capacity. All
   potential risks were adequately assessed and risk mitigation measures put in place.

   While indicators for the telecommunications sector were adequate (good mix of qualitative and
   quantitative indicators), the specification of the base value of and/or methodology to compute
   each outcome/impact indicator, as well as the inclusion of additional indicators for the postal
   sector, would have strengthened the monitoring and evaluation of project achievement.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


   The achievement of the development objective of the project is rated highly satisfactory.

   Expansion of access to communications and information services at more competitive
   prices

   Over a short period of time, the expansion of access to communications and information
   services at more competitive prices was tremendous and went far beyond the most optimistic
   forecasts for a country such as Mauritania given its income level, market size and its dispersed
   population. Between 1997 and 2003, overall penetration jumped from 0.53 percent to 14.08
   percent and outperformed the evolution of penetration in Sub-Saharan Africa (see graph
   below) and of countries such as Ethiopia which have not undertaken any sector reform (see
   Section 10). Total teledensity grew on average by 114.22 percent annually over the life of the
   project (1999-2003). The targets set for mobile and fixed penetration in the PAD were
   surpassed respectively after one and two years of project effectiveness. With the successful
   introduction of competition in the provision of mobile services in 2000, the expansion of access
   accelerated dramatically. By 2001, the number of mobile subscribers was already more than
   four times higher than that of fixed lines. There were 350,000 mobile subscribers by the end
   2003 while fixed lines grew from 16,600 in 1999 to 38,178 in 2003 (see Section 10 for sector
   indicators).

                                Graph 1: The Impact of Sector Reforms on Access




                                                 - 5 -

        Total Penetration            T ar gets PAD for end 2002:                               14.08%
        M obile P enetratio n        1%                                                        12.70%
        SSA A v                      0.1%
        SSA A v exc.S A
        M ain Lines Penetration                        Introduction of
        Series4                                            cellular
                                                        co m petitio n
                                                                                 P rivatizatio n of

                           Creation o f the                                          M aur itel

                         regulato ry autho rity


     B eginning of WB
       involvement


                                                                                                 1.39%
 0.53%
 0.00%
      1997           1998             1999           2000             2001    2002           2003



Greater access opportunities for the population were not limited to Nouakchott, the capital
city, and Nouadhibou. Indeed, the geographical reach of networks also improved significantly:
the incumbent connected new localities as required by its license and mobile operators went
well beyond their coverage obligations. Estimates point to a doubling of the percentage of
population with access to at least one network between 2000 and 2002. Overall, prices
decreased and now reflect more closely the cost of providing services. It is much more difficult
to assess the development and performance evolution of Mauripost, the incumbent postal
operator, due to the limited and unreliable data available. However, it seems that quality of
services improved somewhat and that the range of services offered has increased slightly. By
the end of the project, Mauripost was not financially sustainable without the very substantial
subsidies it receives from the Government; the amount of subsidies granted to Mauripost by the
Government in 2003 was equal to the amount granted in 2000.

The implementation of the comprehensive sector reform agenda supported by the project is the
major     factor    explaining        the     dramatic      improvement    of the    performance      of the
telecommunications sector. Sector reforms also contributed to economic growth and poverty
reduction through their impact on private investment (investment in the sector in 2000 and
2001 represented 10 percent of GDP), job creation (around 2,000 induced jobs and 300
micro-firms by 2002), fiscal revenues (licenses and privatization proceeds and increase tax
revenues) and by enhancing income-generating opportunities. With the support of the Bank,
the Government successfully reformed radically the telecommunications sector and developed
new institutions in a short period of time compared to other countries in the region. The
experience of Mauritania in reforming its telecommunications sector has been widely used as an
example in other countries, such as Mali.

The project design embodied a sequencing of telecommunications reform plan and
implementation time table which were proven to be very effective in enhancing sector
development (see below). Reform began with the enactment of a new sector law that (a)
provided clear rules of the game; (b) separated regulation, policy-making and the provision of
services from one another; (c) allowed the introduction of competition and (d) the creation of
the regulatory agency. Subsequently, a license for mobile services was granted to a new-entrant



                                                         - 6 -

operator, and the incumbent operator was awarded a license on similar conditions to the new
entrant and was privatized. Furthermore, the design of the project provided for a level of
flexibility (with respect to the structure of the privatization, the scope of the regulatory agency
mandate and exclusivity to be granted to the incumbent) that was adequately used to maximize
the impact of reform due to advice from the Bank and courageous choices made by the
Government (see below). Not surprisingly given the very different nature of the postal sector
(such as the more limited scope for private sector participation, the absence of technological
change and product innovation, low market expansion potential) and limited extent of
liberalization worldwide, less comprehensive changes were implemented in the postal sector.
Sound policy choices and sequencing combined with a strong political commitment were
essential ingredients to the success of the telecommunications sector reform process.
Continuous and fruitful dialogue from the outset of the project between the Bank and its
counterparts allowed the internalization of best practices principles (such as transparency) by
key actors and the building of credibility of the whole reform program. The effective
implementation of these principles by change actors was instrumental in attracting private
investment and overcoming the high country risk.

Establishment of a legal, regulatory and institutional framework

The project strongly supported the development of a new legal, regulatory and institutional
framework governing the supply of telecommunications and postal services (see next section
for the elements financed). Following the Policy Statement of 1998, a new pro-competitive
telecommunications law, reflecting and incorporating international best practices, was enacted
July 11, 1999. It defined a pro-competition regime allowing the introduction of competition
and provided for the creation of an independent regulator, which began its operations in
September 1999. The Autorité de Régulation de Mauritanie (ARM) was endowed with a
well-defined mandate and substantial powers to regulate the sector. It was made responsible for
enforcing    legislation,   spectrum    allocation,    management      and    control,  numbering,
interconnection, price regulation and competition.

The legal framework also provided a sound basis to ensure the independence, financial
autonomy and accountability of the regulator. It included rules preventing the discretionary
removal of the board of the ARM which were followed in practice, mechanisms to finance
sector regulation based on levies from operators and other fees directly collected by the ARM,
dispute resolution mechanisms, as well as transparency and information dissemination
provisions such as the obligation to set-up a web site to publish an annual report and all
relevant legislation and decisions, as well as to justify decisions.

With Bank support, secondary legislation was prepared and enacted, and regulatory capacity
developed. Since its creation, the regulator was fully determined to ensure the success of the
reform. It grew to become fully operational and established a strong track record, taking
appropriate and timely decisions in the area of price regulation, interconnection, frequency
management, quality of service and infrastructure sharing. Shortly after its establishment, it
successfully managed the tender and award process for the issue of a cellular license to a
private operator, strictly adhering to the tender provisions and providing information requested



                                               - 7 -

by potential investors in an efficient manner, with the support of the Bank team and
consultants. On that occasion the credibility and transparency of the regulator were widely
acknowledged (all pre-qualified bidders sent congratulatory letters for the unusually transparent
and well managed process) and later had a positive impact on the successful privatization of the
incumbent operator and the functioning of the whole regulatory regime.

In January 2001, the Government, following discussions with the Bank since the beginning of
the project, decided to expand the mandate of the regulator to other utilities, including in
particular the energy and water sectors, as it was envisioned in the PAD originally. One
essential justification for this choice was the need to pool expertise and resources within a
single entity given the size and limited resources of Mauritania. Other significant institutional
changes implemented between 1999 and 2003 which were not foreseen at project design
include the creation of     (a) a State Secretary for New Information and Communications
Technologies in 2001; (b) an agency in charge of promoting universal access to services
(including telecommunications, electricity and water), l'Agence de Promotion de l'Accès
Universel aux Service (APAUS), in Summer 2001 which became operational in September
2002 and managed the universal access fund; and (c) a Directorate for Posts and
Telecommunications within the Ministry of Interior in March 2002 which was operational in
2003 and is in charge of policy implementation, monitoring and formulation. As envisioned in
the project design, Mauripost was created as a separated independent state company following
the spilt of the OPT. Although a first draft of the postal law was ready by May 2000, it was
only approved in ministerial council in February 2004 and was due to be presented to the
Parliament in May 2004. Mauripost's cahier des charges still needed to be approved.

Competitive private provision of telecommunications infrastructure and services, and
postal development

The development of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for telecommunications
was conducive to increased competition and private provision of infrastructure and services.
The 1999 Act fully liberalized the provision of Internet services and other value-added services
as well as allowed competition in other areas. Based on policy dialogue with the Bank, the
Government opted for a very effective sequencing of reforms and policy choices. It is also
worth noting that the project indirectly promoted South-South private investment (the
incumbent and new entrant are owned by telecommunications operators of Morocco and
Tunisia respectively) and the implication of local investors (they have shares in both operators).

Competition: Regarding competition in mobile, the Government made the difficult but very
effective decision, on the basis of advice from the Bank, to delay the roll out of the cellular
network of the incumbent operator until the first license to operate such a system was awarded
to a private operator and indicated that the former would be granted a license on similar
conditions. The establishment of clear rules of the game and a true level playing field between
the incumbent and forthcoming mobile operator, as well as the conduct of an investor
conference in Paris, were essential for mitigating country risk, attracting a private investor and
encouraging fair competition. With the expertise of international consultants financed by the
project, the ARM prepared and carried out the tendering process for the award of a cellular



                                             - 8 -

license. The license was formally issued in June 2000 to a consortium composed of Tunisie
Telecom (51 percent) and a pool of Mauritanian private investors (49 percent) for a high price
of $28M given Mauritania's population and income per capita. The mobile operator, Mattel,
commercially launched its activities in October 2000 while a license was offered on similar
terms to Mauritel Mobile in July 2000, a financially and legally separate subsidiary of Mauritel,
the incumbent operator. Fierce competition between the two cellular operators resulted in the
rapid expansion of subscribers and network coverage beyond their license requirements. The
ARM played a major role in fostering the development of mobile by encouraging infrastructure
sharing, allocating frequencies, facilitating interconnection agreements and monitoring the
quality of services. Another positive factor was the Government's bold decision to allow
mobile operators to offer international services independently of the incumbent from the start
of their operations, which lead to a significant price reduction of international communications
(30 percent reduction between 1999 and 2003 on average in current prices).

After conducting a public consultation, the ARM launched an international tender for the
award of GMPCS licenses in 2001. While no formal limits to the number of licenses to be
granted were set, bids had to be made in association with existing holders of licenses. Two
licenses were eventually awarded in 2002 for free to Mauritel and Mattel in association with
Thuraya and Inmarsat respectively with the obligation to provide within five years at least one
public phone in all localities of more than 1.000 inhabitants. The coverage obligations
contributed to close further the rural-urban gap.

Private participation: Private participation in the sector also increased with the privatization
of Mauritel, the state company created by the separation of the postal and telecommunications
side of the OPT in January 2000. With the advice of IFC advisory services and policy dialogue
with the Bank, the Government privatized Mauritel through the issuance of new shares (i.e.
capital increase) and divestiture of existing ones to a strategic partner. Despite a difficult
external environment (East Asia crisis, burst of the Internet bubble, low attractiveness of the
country to FDI), the Government succeeded in attracting a strategic partner, Maroc Telecom.
Mauritel was valued at $130M, that is $4.065 per subscriber (compared to an average of
$2,500 for similar transactions in Africa). Maroc Telecom, 35 percent owned by Vivendi, took
control of 54 percent of the capital of Mauritel and effective management control in April
2001. Again, the success of the transaction was largely attributed to the quality and
transparency of the whole process, clear rules of the game and a credible regulatory regime, as
well as by an active communications campaign that built investors' confidence and helped
"market" the country. The structure and conditions of the transaction enhanced both Mauritel
and sector development. The dominance of Mauritel was actually not reinforced as its
exclusivity was limited in scope (it covered only the set-up and running of telecommunications
fixed networks open to the public and the provision of fixed voice telephony services to the
public), geographically (only areas where it already provided services) and in time (until June
2004, i.e. about 3 years). In addition, its license contained reasonable obligations of main lines
connections and network roll out in new areas as well as of quality of services. Finally, rate
rebalancing was initiated in advance in order to enhance the ability of Mauritel to compete on
an equal footing with mobile operators.




                                               - 9 -

As a result of increased private participation and competition, the combined turnover of the
three operators grew at a CARG of 44 percent between 1999 and 2002 while total investment
of Mauritel increased at a CARG of 101 percent over the same period. As a source of foreign
direct investment, the telecommunications sector reached the second place, just after the oil
sector. To attract private investment, the Government did not provide investors with undue
benefits or soft regulations. While the privatization of Mauritel raised substantial revenues, it
included limited exclusivity rights, adequate regulations (e.g. price control) and substantial
coverage obligations. In addition, the license fees paid by Mattel to enter the market were
reasonable enough and its license also included significant coverage obligations. In other
words, from a redistributive point of view, it can be argued that the reform was fair as
Mauritanians greatly benefited from the increased availability of services and lower tariffs,
while the Government obtained significant proceeds from private investors.

Postal development: The project also supported postal development. Mauripost came into
existence as a separate state company with public capital in January 2000. In itself, the creation
of Mauripost (and the separation of assets) was an achievement. A development plan for
Mauripost was defined by a project-funded consultant and partially implemented by the end of
the project. Politically very difficult decisions were taken by the Government to restore
Mauripost financial position. They include the implementation of a severe redundancy plan
which led to a cut of staff by almost a half (from about 280 to 130) and a major rationalization
of the postal network by the closing of 37 out of 61 post offices in 2000, which had very low
or no activity. In addition, the internal organization and operating practices of Mauripost were
reformed as part of the implementation of the development plan. However, the institutional
landscape in which Mauripost operated was not clarified: the Postal law was not enacted and
the cahier des charges, a key instrument to held Mauripost accountable for its performance
and the subsidies it received, and more generally to frame the relationship between Mauripost
and its shareholder, the State, was not approved by end 2003. On the ground, Mauripost
appeared to be developing a more commercially-oriented culture while the modification of its
operating practices began to be felt.

Notwithstanding the positive elements achieved, Mauripost was by the end of the project in a
difficult position and not financially sustainable. It is hard to argue that its financial position had
improved since its creation. Its revenues did not increase substantially and the fall in operating
expenditures expected from the staff cut and the closure of post offices was not realized.
Annual operating subsidies represented double of the turnover by 2002. It is true that the scope
for sector performance improvement in the postal sector and hence the expected impact of
support was lower than in the telecommunications sector due to the lack of latent, unmet
demand to be tapped for growth. In addition, there was no innovative product or new
technology to generate a significant increase in effective demand. Nevertheless, it is possible
that greater achievements could have been realized if a well articulated vision of the role of the
postal sector had been defined up-front. More specifically there were several elements which
somewhat hindered the improvement of sector performance. They include: (a) the delays in the
implementation of the postal development plan; (b) the lack of clarification of the institutional
landscape (with respect in particular to the body in charge of overseeing Mauripost); (c) the
absence of performance and monitoring indicators/instrument (e.g. cahier des charges,



                                              - 10 -

   incentives for productive efficiency, quality of service targets); (d) the delays in starting the
   second set of technical assistance; and (e) no agreement on a multi-year plan of operating
   subsidies with the government when the development plan of Mauripost was approved in
   mid-2000 which would have provided stronger incentives for cost minimization and
   accountability. Finally, the events of June 2003, which resulted in a major destruction of postal
   assess, adversely affected Mauripost.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Establishment of the Legal and Regulatory Framework for the
Telecommunications Sector; Cost $3.2M (appraisal) / $5.29 (actual):

This component is rated as highly satisfactory. All relevant activities envisaged in the PAD were
carried out and contributed significantly to the achievement of the development objective of the
project. Under this component, technical assistance, training and equipment (mainly for frequency
management) were financed. The telecommunications law, financed under the PPF and prepared
in strong coordination with the Bank, laid down the legal foundations for the creation of the
ARM, a pro-competitive market entry regime, and a new regulatory framework. Within a short
period of time, the regulatory framework was designed and implemented and the capacity of the
regulator developed. The success achieved in reforming the telecommunications sector set the
stage for the reform of other utility sectors such as water and energy.

First, technical assistance was provided to set-up the ARM and to develop its expertise. Human
resources, training, organizational and business plans were prepared. Model forms and procedures
for approving and issuing authorization as well as basic operating procedures were defined. A
semi-resident expert assisted the ARM for three years and five local consultants with legal,
technical and economic expertise staffed the regulator over most of the project life. Consultancy
work allowed the ARM to become progressively operational. However, the Government decision
to entrust the ARM with the regulation of other utility sectors, which coincided with the timing
when consultants' reports on the business plan and training/human resources plan for example
were delivered, made their relevance limited to the telecommunications sector and hence did not
really support the ARM in its evolution towards a multi-utility regulator.

Second, the project supported the implementation of the new regulatory framework. Although its
full implementation was slightly behind the PAD targets, this had no negative impact on the
development of the sector. The areas covered included:

§ Interconnection regime: the technical, financial and economic principles for interconnection, a
  model of interconnection convention, conflict resolution mechanisms and draft decree were
  prepared and implemented;
§ Tariff policy and regulation: a draft decree and rebalancing plan were designed. Thanks to the
  five decisions on retail tariff regulation taken by the regulator, the tariffs of fixed services
  moved closer to their cost;
§ Scarce resources (Frequency management and numbering): consultants also assisted the ARM
  in the design and reorganization of the national frequency plan, the computerization of
  frequency use registration, the definition of frequency fees and the elaboration of the national


                                                 - 11 -

   frequency register. A new numbering plan was designed and implemented in March 2001;
§ Universal access: the report on universal access policy was mainly used for the design of the
   licenses of operators. The Government's decision to create a specialized agency dedicated to
   the promotion of universal access in infrastructure sectors removed from the regulator's
   original mandate the promotion of universal access;
§ Licensing: the license of the incumbent operator together with the licenses of mobile operators
   were drafted. In addition, consultants prepared the documents of the bidding process of the
   first mobile license and assisted the ARM in the conduct and execution of this process. The
   class licenses prepared were used by the ARM to issue the two GMPCS licenses in 2002.
§ WTO offer: a WTO offer, reflecting the new sectoral framework was prepared in 2000 and
   submitted to the government for comments in 2002. By end 2003, the government had not yet
   made any telecommunications commitments to the WTO.

Third, the project financed frequency management and control equipment for the ARM. Two
mobile and two fixed frequency control stations (one in Nouakchott and one in Nouadhibou), a
laboratory and the necessary equipment (software, servers) were procured in a cost effective way
under the project. By September 2002, the system was fully operational and staff trained. It
allowed the ARM to effectively control frequency use at regular intervals. The system put in place
is widely seen in Africa as a model and has been visited by various delegations to learn from the
Mauritanian experience. The information system for the operations of the ARM and other
equipments were also procured very efficiently.

Fourth, two sector studies were carried out. The first dealt with the control of quality of services
of Mauritel and the underlying methodology, and the second modeled the impact of regulatory
decisions and elaborated a cost typology of operators for the purpose of interconnection. As these
studies were completed towards the end of the project, it was not possible to assess their
operationalization. Compared to the PAD, the themes of the study were adjusted to reflect the
needs of the ARM. The requested study on the quality of services of mobile operators could not
however be carried out due to problems with contracting the selected consultant despite its
importance.

Fifth, the project supported the strengthening of the expertise of the ARM and other relevant
actors as well as the sharing of international best practices by financing training (on
interconnection, regulation, etc.), study tours (e.g. in Peru) and participation in international
events and meetings of regulators' associations. Constant dialogue and exchanges with the Bank
also contributed to building capacity of the ARM.

This component met its objective to implement an operational regulatory framework and to
support the regulator. Over the life of the project, the regulator has demonstrated through its
activities and decisions its capacity to regulate the sector effectively in a transparent, proactive,
fair and professional manner and has favored a participatory approach in decision-making. It has
thereby contributed to the rapid development of the sector. The component was well designed
and included appropriate performance indicators.

Component 2: Preparation and execution of privatization transaction of the



                                                - 12 -

telecommunications; Cost $1.5M (appraisal) / $1.01M (actual):

This component is rated as highly satisfactory. In spite of the difficult environment in which took
place the privatization characterized by global competition for investors funds in
telecommunications, the burst of the Internet bubble, the low attractiveness of Mauritania for FDI
and the low perceived market expansion potential, Mauritania successfully attracted a strategic
partner for its incumbent at a record price per line. On the basis of the advice of the Bank and the
Corporate Financial Services (CFS) of the IFC in their respective duties, the Government decided
to opt for a privatization structure that enhanced Mauritel's investment, performance and the
development of the sector overall. Facing limited public financing requirements, the Government
was more inclined to combine a substantial capital increase (and thus retain part of the
privatization proceeds within the company) and a divestiture of shares. Contrary to similar
transactions in Africa and elsewhere, the privatization of Mauritel neither reinforced the
dominance of the operator nor hindered the development of the sector, as the exclusivity granted
was tightly limited in scope and time. Furthermore, as mentioned before, thanks to the
Government's decision to delay the roll out of the mobile network of Mauritel and to grant its
mobile license on similar terms to that of the new entrant, Mauritel did not enjoy any first mover
or unfair advantages. Symmetrically, the structure of the transaction and the decision to rebalance
tariffs provided Mauritel with the means to affront competition and grow. Sustained policy
dialogue with the Government and other counterparts, consultancy work funded by the project as
well as the involvement of the CFS of the IFC were key to frame the trade off involved in the
transaction and policy options. Other factors that contributed to the success of the transaction
included a focused and well developed media campaign on the privatization and the fact that the
legal framework and regulatory agency were already in place.

Project-funded consultancy supported the separation of the postal and telecommunications side of
the OPT which was achieved by January 2000. Other areas covered included technical aspects,
demand, legal and human resources analysis. Due to the tight time-line of the Government, the
lack of expressed interest from commercial investment banks and proven expertise of the CFS of
the IFC, the Government decided to use the CFS and funded their services on its own resources
for the definition of the privatization strategy, the conduct of the process and the finalization of
the transaction. Thus, contrary to what was envisioned originally in the PAD, the project did not
finance the privatization advisory services of an investment bank.

At the investor conference organized in London in September 2000, six firms were present.
Among the four firms pre-qualified - FT, Vivendi, Maroc Telecom and Portugal Telecom - only
the last two made financial bids. At the conclusion of the tender evaluation on February 10, 2001
Maroc Telecom was declared the winning bid with its US$48.1M offer for the acquisition of a 54
percent equity stake in Mauritel. Only 30 percent of the winning offer (US$ 14.4M) went as
proceeds to the Treasury while the remaining constituted a capital increase. The license of
Mauritel included notably the obligation to provide services in 22 new localities and to connect
40.000 main lines by 2005. Annual obligations were satisfactory met between 2001 and 2003.

It is also worth noting that the staff was not cut following the transaction and that labor
productivity increased: the number of main line per employee increased from 31 to 55 between



                                                - 13 -

2000 and 2003. Since its privatization, Mauritel has been a flourishing operator and has widely
benefited from the expertise of its strategic partner. Its internal organization and operating
practices were modified and its performance enhanced as a result. Profits of Mauritel (fixed and
mobile) grew at a CAGR of 26 percent between 1999 and 2000. This component was well
designed and the performance indicators adequate.

Component 3: Strategy for rural access to communications and information services

This component consisted of a sub-component of the "Strategy for rural access to
communications and information services and postal development" component in the PAD, but an
individual one in the Credit Agreement. For this reason, the two sub-components are assessed
separately.

Although only one out of two output indicators of the PAD was satisfactory, this component is
rated satisfactory. The initial focus of this component was in fact modified for two essential
reasons. First, the very rapid expansion of the reach of mobile networks following the
introduction of competition and other reforms implied that on the ground, market forces were
taking care of expanding access opportunities, and it was important to monitor up to which point
they would go. Mobile operators in fact quickly began to cover areas not required by their
licenses while the GMPCS licenses included the obligation to provide at least one public pay
phone in all localities of more than 1,000 inhabitants within five years from 2002. The percentage
of population with access to at least one network grew from 27 percent in 2000 to 61 percent in
2002. For this reason, the actual need for pilot programs was deemed less acute. Secondly, the
shift in focus aimed at matching the Government priorities in terms of universal access and ICT,
which had matured since the preparation of the project. The project actually facilitated the
development of a nationally owned approach to universal access through the financing of national
workshops. Study tours, in which high level Government officials and agents of the ARM took
part, were carried out in Malaysia and Australia. They were essential in shaping the approach to
universal access in Mauritania and in raising awareness for the importance of ICT for
development. In addition, the project team working with the macroeconomics team advised the
Mauritanians, in the context of the PRSP, to create a PRSP working group on information
technologies and use of information technologies in the preparation and dissemination of the
PRSP. It thereby contributed to extend and strengthen macro-sector linkages and improve the
quality of the Bank's overall dialogue with Mauritania at that time.

Given the centrality of universal access to services for the poverty reduction strategy of
Mauritania, the Government decided, with the advice of the Bank, to create an agency, the
Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel aux Services (APAUS), dedicated to the
implementation of a coherent policy of promoting access to services in rural areas, including
telecommunications services. At the request of the Government, the project financed a national
strategy for the development of new technologies following the creation of a State Secretariat
dedicated to their promotion, instead of financing a rural access strategy to ICT services. The
implementation of the strategy was not closely monitored however.

Component 4: Development of the Postal Sector



                                               - 14 -

This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. Recognizing the need to support the development of
the postal sector and of Mauripost as a commercially-orientated activity, the project included
consultancy services to prepare a new postal law, design a development plan for Mauripost and to
support its implementation. Equipment and training were also envisioned to promote the
implementation of the plan. Although significant support was provided by the project and
politically difficult decisions were taken to enhance Mauripost's performance and financial
sustainability, progress towards these goals was limited.

The government, with the support of the Bank, undertook a significant restructuring of
Mauripost. After the separation of the OPT, which was achieved in a very short period of time, a
diagnostic of Mauripost and a development plan outlining strategic objectives were prepared by a
project-funded consultancy. However, the plan neither included monitorable performance
indicators and targets nor proposed a multi-year plan specifying the operating subsidies needed
for Mauripost. In addition, the very low reliability of accountancy information was only revealed
in 2003 when the opening balance sheet of Mauripost and other accounts were audited. Between
2000 and 2002, policy dialogue with the government emphasized the necessity to enact the Postal
law and to implement the social plan agreed in July 2000. The major part of the social plan was
settled in 2002. The other very courageous decision taken by the Government was the
rationalization of the postal network and the subsequent closing of more than half of postal offices
with the aim to cut operating expenditures and thereby enhance the viability of Mauripost.

To support the development of Mauripost, the closing date of the project was extended in 2002.
An expert in change management was recruited to coordinate the various technical assistance
provided to Mauripost. The latter included financial audit, postal reorganization, financial services
and accounting practices as well as some training. However, as technical assistance was
undertaken towards the end of the project and slowed down by the civil disturbance of June 2003,
the recommendations produced could not be fully implemented before the end of the project.
Following the coup attempt of June 2003, the project re-financed the equipment it had financed
but which had been destroyed. The coup attempt also had an adverse impact on the reform
momentum.

Because the postal law was not enacted, Mauripost operated throughout the project in an
institutional vacuum with no formal and established overseeing body within the Ministry of
Interior until late 2003. No mechanisms and indicators to monitor Mauripost were in place.
Hence, there were limited cost minimization incentives and accountability mechanisms, although
the Government paid very substantial operating subsidies to support Mauripost. Between 2000
and 2002, operating subsidies represented more than twice the turnover of Mauripost. These
subsidies were negotiated annually and effectively disbursed with some delays.

In addition to the creation of Mauripost, the project resulted in other positive changes. The postal
network was rationalized and two pilot post offices were developed. More efficient internal
organization and operating practices were progressively put in place, and partnerships developed.
New postal and financial services were also launched.




                                               - 15 -

However, these improvements have yet to show their impact on the turnover and financial and
operating performance of Mauripost. Contrary to what was expected, the staff reductions and
closing of post offices did not result in an improvement of the financial balance of Mauripost (see
Section 10 for postal indicators). Despite the subsidies received, Mauripost incurred substantial
losses every year. Furthermore, it appears that Mauripost has been regularly using the savings of
its customers to cover its operating deficits and liquidity needs. Such practices of mixing up postal
and financial services accounts are against precautionary principles and should be ended as they
could lead to a liquidity crisis within Mauripost. As mentioned before, the limited market size and
lower potential for expansion in the context of lack of new products or technological innovation
to boost market growth and strong competition from the informal sector implied that the scope
for sector performance improvement was more limited in this sector than in the
telecommunications sector.

The design of this component could have been more detailed and included additional indicators
reflecting more closely the objective of this component.

Component 5: Media and information campaign; Cost $0.2M (appraisal) / $M0.29
(actual):

This component is rated satisfactory. The information campaign on the reform financed by the
project contributed to build consensus on the reform agenda and to increase awareness of its
benefits. Activities supported under this component also raised the profile of Mauritania at the
international level and enhanced its attractiveness to foreign investors. They thereby play a role in
the successful attraction of foreign private investors for the two transactions. The production of
information mediums (CD-ROM, leaflet) on the reform and the project as well as their wide
dissemination were also very useful to keep the reform momentum.

Component 6: Capacity building and project management; Cost $0.6 (appraisal) / $1.29
(actual):

This component is rated satisfactory. The project supported the development of capacity in
project management through the financing of training to the project management unit (PMU) and
the Special Procurement Commission. Three staff of the project management unit, the necessary
equipment for the unit to function, and financial audits of the project were also financed by the
project. Capacity was effectively developed. Complex procurement operations, such as for
frequency management equipment, were carried out without any problem. Management of this
project has been recognized by the Mauritanians as exemplary in their portfolio. The successive
heads of the project management unit were instrumental in the reform process: the first head of
the PMU was appointed head of Mauritel by its main shareholder, Maroc Telecom, while the
second one was appointed Minister in 2003. Another indicator of the capacity developed at the
Special Procurement Commission level is the Government's decision to expand the commission's
responsibilities over procurement activities not related to the Telecommunications and Postal
Sectors Reform project. Originally, the Commission was created to handle only the procurement
of this project but in light of its celerity and professionalism, its responsibilities were enlarged.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                   - 16 -

Not calculated in the PAD.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not calculated in PAD.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The Government demonstrated
its ability to implement a highly successful and complex reform in the telecommunications sector.
With technical assistance from the Bank, Mauritania achieved far-reaching institutional and
regulatory changes of a novel nature which embraced international best practices. Capacity
building activities and project-funded consultancy were instrumental for the ARM to become fully
operational and to establish a good track-record in telecommunications regulation through its
decisions in the area of interconnection, quality of services, spectrum management, licensing and
tariff regulation. Regulatory reform in this sector was used as a model for other network utilities
with the expansion of the mandate of the ARM. The success of sector reforms implemented in the
telecommunications sector provided considerable traction to reform other utility sectors such as
electricity and water. The reforms also contributed to build the confidence of the Government in
handling institutional and policy reforms. Another major evidence of the significant institutional
development impact was the record private investment level attracted despite the perceived high
country risk, which illustrated the credibility of the regulatory regime put in place. As mentioned
before, since its creation, Mauritel improved its performance and benefited from knowledge
transfer from its main shareholder. The resources and mechanisms of financing of the ARM in
place should ensure that the regulator is able to continuously strengthen its capacity and keep
abreast of latest progress as required in a rapidly changing sector like telecoms. The project also
set the stage for the development of effective regulation in other regulated sectors.

The institutional development impact was more modest in the postal sector as the postal law was
not enacted before project closure. Nevertheless, the capacity of Mauripost to make a more
effective use of its human and financial resources improved. A specific Directorate for Post and
Telecommunications within the Ministry of Interior was also created. Provided that the capacity
of this Directorate is developed, the ability of the Government, the shareholder of Mauripost, to
effectively oversee and monitor Mauripost will be enhanced.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There are two external factors that affected project implementation and outcome. First, the
international capital market climate for both telecommunications and investment in developing
countries deteriorated dramatically around 2000. The design of the project was aimed at helping
mitigate investor risk perception (both country risk and project-specific risk) through carefully
defined policy measures and a tailored campaign to project a positive brand image of the reform
process, policy commitment, and institutional management capacity for a competitive service
provision environment. Second, the coup attempt that took place in Nouakchott in June 2003


                                                     - 17 -

affected project implementation and outcome for Mauripost negatively in three ways: (a) the
momentum for institutional reform was diminished; (b) the progress of consultant work for
Mauripost was slowed and as a result, the implementation of their recommendations was delayed
and less training than projected was provided; and (c) all of the equipment in the Hotel des Postes
of Mauritel necessary for its postal operations was looted and completely damaged, and thus had
to be re-financed by the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The role of the Government in the implementation of sector reform in the telecommunications
sector was key. The strong political commitment to reform that existed prior to project
effectiveness was effectively translated in practice. The Government made clear and sound policy
choices, and was pragmatic and flexible. The Head of State was personally committed to ensuring
the success of telecommunications sector reform. Appropriate arbitrages were promptly made
when needed. Within the Government, the inter-ministerial committee in charge of piloting the
reform also played a major role. According to many observers, its celerity and choices in the
coordination of the whole reform were in line with best practice. The same holds true for the
Privatization Commission while procurement processes were well managed by the Special
Procurement Commission. After the creation of the ARM, the Government effectively delegated
powers to it and respected its independence. The appointment and re-appointment of key officials
of exceptional quality for the ARM and the PMU were made in due time without delays.

Regarding the postal sector, while some politically difficult choices were made, delays in adopting
the postal law, in implementing the Social plan and in the prompt disbursement of operating
subsidies to Mauripost resulted principally in: (a) delays in implementing the postal development
plan; (b) delays in starting the second set of technical assistance to Mauripost; (c) creating
incentives for Mauripost to use public savings to cover up operating deficits; and (d) inducing low
incentives for cost-efficiency. Overall, the progress achieved in the postal sector could have been
greater if as the shareholder of Mauripost, the Government through a dedicated Directorate, had
monitored Mauripost more closely.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The successes achieved through the project are partly attributable to the PMU of the project,
which functioned efficiently and played a proactive role in coordinating project implementation
between the various entities involved and liaising with the Bank. It also ensured procurement
processes did not take longer than required.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project is currently estimated at $11.55 million, which is close to the
appraisal estimate of $12 million. Details of the project cost and financing are available in Annex
2. Actual/latest estimates of project cost per component differed from those at appraisal for the
following main reasons: (a) the government self-financed the cost of the IFC advisory services for
the privatization of Mauritel; (b) various activities related to rural access were dropped as
explained in section 4; (c) additional capacity-building activities for the ARM were financed; and



                                                    - 18 -

(d) frequency management equipment needs of the ARM were greater than expected. Two
reallocations were performed in 2003 to address technical assistance needs of Mauripost. As of
May 2004, total disbursement stood at $9.35 million compared to $10.8 million at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Sustainability of the project's achievements is likely.

The sustainability of the project's achievements in the telecommunications sector is highly likely
for the following reasons:
   §    Competition between private operators induces powerful incentives for sector growth and
   development for the              benefits of users;
   §    Regulatory capacity of the ARM has been demonstrated throughout the project and it is
   fully committed to improving sector performance and strengthening competition in the
   post-June 2003 era, as evidenced by the         launching of a public consultation on this matter in
   May 2004;
   §    The funding mechanisms of the ARM regulatory activities in telecoms are appropriate to
   ensure its financial autonomy and sustainability;
   §    The institutions developed during the project are well integrated in the political and
   broader institutional                   landscape of Mauritania.

On the other hand, the sustainability of the project's achievements in the postal sector are unlikely
given the very difficult financial situation of Mauripost and the size of operating subsidies
compared to its turnover. Based on current trends, Mauripost is not financially sustainable
without the continuation of the Government's consequent financial support. Nevertheless, the
recent adoption of the postal law in Ministerial Council and the forthcoming adoption of
Mauripost cahier des charges should set the stage for a better monitoring of Mauripost
performance. In addition Mauripost's management has expressed a strong commitment and
determination to continue improving its performance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

With respect to the telecommunications sector, June 2004 represents a major milestone. The
ARM's commitment to intensify competition across the sector should allow Mauritania to seize
this important opportunity to shake up the somewhat cozy competition between the two mobile
operators and foster the decline of prices, the improvement of quality of services and international
connectivity, and the diffusion of Internet and data services at competitive prices. In this
endeavor, the ARM has decided to hire consultants to lay out options for increasing competition,
and has just launched a public consultation on liberalization. Greater competition is likely to
increase the workload of the ARM. It will require a strengthening of the interconnection regime,
the cost-accounting of operators, and the ARM's expertise in the field of anti-competitive
practices. More systematic and efficient market monitoring practices will also be required.

The forthcoming vote of the postal law by the Parliament should enhance the development of the



                                                     - 19 -

postal sector. The cahier des charges of Mauripost should be adopted as soon as possible and
detail performance indicators targets, mechanisms to control the solvency of Mauripost and the
separation of financial and postal cash accounts as well as the modalities whereby Mauripost is to
be compensated for its universal and mandatory services should be implemented. The role of
Mauripost and its relationship with the State should be clarified. It is not clear the extent to which
market size and its potential growth will eventually allow Mauripost to breakeven. Emphasis
should therefore be on cost containment. The full implementation of recommendations formulated
within the framework of the technical assistance provided to Mauripost should lead to
performance improvements. The Government has requested further Bank support to address the
capacity development needs of the Directorate of Post and Telecommunications within the
Ministry of Interior to oversee Mauripost and of the ARM to regulate the sector. Additional
support to Mauripost in the forthcoming years is also required in order to improve its financial
situation and to put the sector on a sound footing. It would be advisable to carry out a
comprehensive stock-taking exercise and audit of Mauripost as well as to define a strategy
detailing cost containment objectives, the cost of universal service and subsidies.

With respect to multi-utility regulation, the development of capacity is underway in the energy
and water sectors within the framework of two Bank projects. However, in these two sectors, the
regulator is not yet fully operational and appropriate funding mechanisms for their regulation have
to be defined to ensure the overall financial sustainability of the regulator in the mid-term. If no
such mechanisms are put in place, there is a risk that the regulator's resources levied on the
telecommunications sector will be used for other sectors. It is therefore important to develop a
mid-term business plan of the ARM.

In the use of the universal access fund managed by the APAUS, a closer coordination of the work
of this agency and the regulator as well as a clarification of their operational responsibilities are
required to ensure that markets are not distorted and that the most effective use of funds is made.
While it is too early to assess the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the institutional framework
in place and how the different institutions work together, it would be advisable to carry out an
evaluation in the coming years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


The Bank performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory. The
project was consistent with the Government's will to undertake a comprehensive reform of the
postal and telecommunications sectorS in order to support its private sector oriented growth
strategy and with the 1997 Bank's CAS for Mauritania. The Bank team played a major role in
developing the Government's strong commitment to reform through the organization of a
workshop and interactions with officials. Thanks to its ability to listen to the Government needs
and concerns, its willingness to lay out the trade-off involved in the various elements of sector
reform and to adapt global knowledge, the Bank team prepared a well tailored project. The active
participation of all relevant stakeholders and intense policy dialogue and transfer of knowledge in
project preparation ensured a broad ownership of the project. Technically, the project was well



                                                - 20 -

prepared with a very detailed action plan, manual of procedures, terms of references for major
consultations, and a sound identification of activities necessary for a successful project
implementation. The preparation of the postal element of the sector was not as comprehensive
due mainly to the lack of a postal expert in project preparation. With the exception of postal
expertise, the expertise mix for project preparation was adequate.

7.2 Supervision:


The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory. The Bank's team maintained a
continuous policy dialogue and provided very timely and adequate advice on critical issues
pertaining to the telecommunications sector. It worked collaboratively with the client to find
realistic solutions that matched its objective as outlined in Section 4. Supervision missions were
carried out at regular intervals. The Bank was very responsive to borrower's needs. In fact, the
team responded actively to the opportunities of the PRSP to extend and strengthen macro-sector
linkages and improve the quality of the Bank's overall dialogue with Mauritania at that time.
Another instance of the responsiveness of the Bank team was when a mission was carried out and
a credit reallocation made shortly after the events of June 2003. Throughout the project, the Bank
team also involved and worked closely with the IMF team (when needed), the macro team and
other sector teams, as well as the country office staff. Bank staff also ensured that the Bank's
procurement guidelines were respected.

The excellent policy dialogue on the telecommunications side of the project could however have
been leveraged earlier to push through the postal reform agenda. The Bank could also have
articulated better the costs and benefits associated with the creation of APAUS and its mandate.
The choice to create an institution dedicated to the promotion of universal access only and the
resulting duplication of expertise that was being developed within the ARM appears in
contradiction with the economies of scale argument that led to multi-utility regulation in
Mauritania. With the exception of the documents pertaining to the mid-term review, which could
not be located, project documentation was adequate.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


In light of lending and supervision performance, the overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory. The Bank developed and maintained a fruitful working relationship with all the
parties involved in the project and acted as a knowledge broker. It was fully dedicated to the
successful implementation of the project and worked closely with other Bank teams. The resident
mission staff also provided very efficient support throughout the project. At several occasions, the
Government acknowledged the superior performance of the Bank. The extension of the closing
date of the project allowed Mauripost to benefit from much needed technical assistance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The Borrower's performance in lending was assessed as highly satisfactory. There was a close
cooperation and a very active participation of the Government and other relevant stakeholders
with the Bank at the time of project preparation. A broad consensus existed on the reforms



                                                - 21 -

envisioned which were bold in many respect given prevailing economic policy conditions in
Mauritania. The Government demonstrated commitment to sector reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


The Government's performance during implementation was rated as highly satisfactory overall
for the reasons outlined in sections 4.1 and 5.2. More specifically, while the Government had no
prior experience in implementing major institutional changes in a public utility sector, it made
clear and appropriate choices with the expert advice from the Bank's team in the
telecommunications sector. The telecommunications sector reform was implemented very rapidly
within the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative which provided powerful incentives to reform. The
promotion of sector development was not sacrificed to meet budgetary considerations such as
privatization proceeds, or to favor the incumbent. As a result, excellent results were achieved.
The Government fully respected the modified distribution of powers created by the new
institutional framework and refrained from political interference. It appointed excellent officials at
key positions in a timely manner. In the postal sector, it took decisions that required a lot of
political courage although they did not lead to their expected impact on the performance of
Mauripost. Despite the fact that the postal law was only approved in Ministerial council two
months after project closure, its performance was highly satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


For the reasons outlined in section 5.3., the performance of the implementing agency was rated
highly satisfactory. Through its coordination efforts, the management of the implementing
agency was successful in ensuring that the implementation schedule was kept on track. In that
respect, the implementation calendar -containing about 250 action items over a 36-month period-
constituted a very efficient tool. Financial management and staffing was adequate.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The results of this project are to a great extent attributable to the Borrower and the exceptional
quality and commitment of key Government officials, including the head of the ARM and the
initial heads of the PMU and of the OPT. For this reason and those outlined above, the
Government's overall performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   The main lessons to be drawn from this project are the following:

     Project design and implementation:

       l Political commitment and ownership of the reform program supported by the project is
            essential for successful implementation of sector reform.
       l The upfront definition of a vision or strategy for sector development is necessary for
            maintaining reform momentum, improving sector performance, and achieving
            sustainable outcomes, as illustrated by the highly successful support to the
            telecommunications sector.



                                                - 22 -

  l An inclusive and collaborative approach to project preparation and the definition of a
       precise time-table is paramount to a disciplined implementation of sector reform.
  l Communication campaign and media relations are essential to enhance private investor
       confidence, mitigate country risk, and build consensus on the reform agenda.
  l The development of regulatory agency capacity requires substantial time and capacity
       building efforts and is best achieved by a combination of technical assistance, training,
       and sustained interaction with the Bank's supervision team.
  l For the monitoring of project implementation progress and the assessment of the
       project's impact, it is essential to include indicators that closely reflect the
       development objective and the objectives of each component. Relevant indicators
       defined should be easily available and measurable. The value for the base year and
       methodology for computation should be established at appraisal. An entity in charge of
       collecting necessary data on a regular basis should also be designated.

Telecommunications sector reform:

  l The promotion of competition was a key factor behind the dramatic increase of access
       and improved sector performance. To maximize the impact of competition, the
       Mauritanian experience demonstrated the importance of establishing a level playing
       field between operators, enacting clear rules of the game, and making sound policy
       choices, such as awarding licenses on similar conditions to the incumbent and its
       competitor.
  l In terms of sequencing, reforms implemented in Mauritania suggest that the adoption
       of sector legislation and the creation of a regulatory agency prior to the introduction of
       competition and private sector participation are conducive to higher sector
       performance.
  l The privatization of the incumbent operator through a combination of capital increase
       and divestiture of shares is a very effective means to maximize the chance of a
       successful transaction and to enhance the development of the privatized entity.

Postal sector reform

  l Sector      reform in the postal sector is much more difficult than in the
       telecommunications sector and offers less scope for performance improvement. The
       scope for private participation and liberalization is lower, and there is limited
       technological change and product innovation to promote cost reduction and/or boost
       sector revenues. Incumbent operators also face tremendous competition from the
       informal sector while in some countries the size of the market is such that it is difficult
       for incumbent operators to reach the minimum efficient size on a purely commercial
       basis. Meanwhile, the cost of no reform may be very high, especially where post
       offices are also in charge of financial services.
  l The early definition of a sector strategy, outlining the vision of the Government, and
       the implementation of performance indicators are essential to improve the performance
       of the incumbent postal operator and the sector as a whole. Maintaining/developing a
       postal network comes at a cost which can often not be fully recovered by the sale of



                                            - 23 -

             services. This requires upfront clarity with respect to the economic and social benefits
             that may justify subsidies, as well as a clear program of cost reduction and efficiency
             improvement.
        l Capacity building activities should target not only the incumbent postal operator but
             also the regulator and the governmental policy unit in charge of the sector.

    Regulation

      l The definition and enforcement of appropriate mechanisms to finance the activities of
           regulatory agencies is essential to ensure their financial autonomy and sustainability,
           which are conditions of their effectiveness.
      l The chances to become a performing multi-utility regulator seem to be higher when the
           regulator starts with a mandate limited to a single sector, typically the
           telecommunications sector where liberalization tends to be introduced first. Once the
           single sector regulator has established a track-record, its mandate can be expanded to
           other sector with a view to replicate the success achieved in other sectors.
      l Institutional choices, such as the creation of a dedicated agency for the promotion of
           universal access to services, must draw on a rigorous cost-benefit analysis.
      l When new institutions are established, such as the multi-sector regulatory agency or the
           multi-sector universal access agency, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms should be
           built in the process to assess their performance after say a couple of years of operations.
           Such assessment may cover the whole institutional framework for the sector(s).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

   Please see Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:

n/a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

n/a

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 24 -

                                                   Telecommunications Indicators

                                                  1997       1998       1999       2000        2001     2002     2003         CARG


Access

Main lines penetration                             0.53%       0.63%     0.67%      0.74%        0.96%   1.19%    1.39%      20%  99-03

Mobile penetration                                 0.00%       0.00%     0.00%      0.61%        4.31%   9.14%   12.70%    175%   00-03

Total penetration                                  0.53%       0.63%     0.67%      1.35%        5.27%   10.33%  14.08%    114%   99-03

Public phones & telecenters penetration            0.02%       0.03%     0.04%      0.06%        0.13%   0.19%    0.24%      57%  99-03

Main lines pen. outside Nouak. & Nouad.            0.10%            ..        ..    0.14%        0.22%   0.24%    0.63%      66%  00-03

Percentage of population with access                     ..         ..        ..      27%         45%      61%        ..     50%  00-02

Internet penetration                              0.004%     0.041%     0.121%     0.196%       0.268%   0.373%       ..     38%  00-02

Number of main lines                               12,456     15,300     16,600     18,969      25,199   32,005   38,178     23%  99-03

Number of mobile subscribers                             0          0         0     15,522     112,677  245,121  349,472   182%   00-03

Total number of subcribers                         12,456     15,300     16,600     34,491     137,876  277,126  387,650   120%   99-03

Internet substribers (dial-up & dedi. access)            ..         ..        ..       180         250      350    1295      93%  00-03


Sector revenues ( in MUM)

Operators only                                      4,513       5,497     5,988       6,113     10,290   17,909       ..  44.08%  99-02

Sector revenues as a % of GDP                      2.71%       2.91%     2.98%      2.72%        4.18%   6.80%        ..  31.61%  99-02


Productivity & Quality of Service

Main lines per employee                                 28          ..        ..         31         41       55       ..  33.30%  00-02

Telephone main lines, waiting list                  6,397     10,346     47,780           ..         ..       ..      ..       ..     ..

Quality of Service (TSI monthly average)                 ..         ..        ..          ..    20.96%   16.05%   9.81%  -31.59%  01-03


Employment

Mauritel                                                 ..         ..        ..       614         614      583       ..  -2.56%  00-02

Mattel                                                   ..         ..        ..         36         36       90       ..  58.11%  00-02

Mauritel Mobile                                          ..         ..        ..          ..        85      110       ..  29.41%  01-02


Source: Autorié de régulation de Mauritanie, operators, ITU World Telecommunications Indicators and WDI.




                                                                      - 25 -

                                              Telecommunications Indicators: Tariffs

Current MU                                   2003 in US$  1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003


                                                                                                           Var. 99-03 in
Mauritel fixe                                                                                              1997 prices

Connection charge                                18.66    16,000 16,000  9,800  9,800  9,800  5,000  5,000    -57%

Monthly rental charge                            4.85      672    672    672    1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300     63%

Local call, peak                                 0.11      9.6    9.6     9.6    24     30     30     30      165%

Local call, off-peak                             0.08      7.2    7.2     7.2    24     30     30     22      159%

Long distance call, peak                         0.45      260    260    260    260    204    204    120      -61%

Long distance call, off-peak                     0.32      195    195    195    195    149    149     87      -62%

International call to Senegal, peak              2.09      675    675    675    660    561    561    561      -40%

International call to Senegal, off peak          1.53     506.25 506.25 506.25  481    409    409    409      -41%

International call to Europe, peak               3.04     1098    1098   1098   960    816    816    816      -37%

International call to Europe, off peak           2.22     823.5  823.5   823.5  700    595    595    595      -39%

International call to the USA, peak              2.10      801    801    801    654    564    564    564      -40%

International call to the USA, off peak          1.78     600.75 600.75 600.75  553    477    477    477      -33%


                                                                                                           Var. 00-03 in
Mauritel mobile (prepaid)                                                                                  1997 prices

Activation charge (1)                            18.66      ..     ..      ..  12,000  6,000  5,000  5,000    -64%

On net call                                      0.58       ..     ..      ..  156.75 156.75 156.75 156.75     13%

Off net call                                     0.68       ..     ..      ..   181.5  181.5  181.5  181.5     13%

International call to Senegal                    1.14       ..     ..      ..  305.25 305.25 305.25 305.25     13%

International call to Europe                     1.63       ..     ..      ..  437.25 437.25 437.25 437.25     13%

International call to the USA                    1.32       ..     ..      ..  354.75 354.75 354.75 354.75     13%

(1): include free calls


                                                                                                           Var. 00-03 in
Mattel mobile (prepaid)                                                                                    1997 prices

Activation charge                                7.46       ..     ..      ..   2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000     13%

On net call                                      0.50       ..     ..      ..   135    135    135    135       13%

Off net call                                     1.23       ..     ..      ..   330    330    330    330       13%

International call to Senegal                    1.90       ..     ..      ..   510    510    510    510       13%

International call to Europe                     2.80       ..     ..      ..   750    750    750    750       13%

International call to the USA                    2.24       ..     ..      ..   600    600    600    600       13%


                                                                                                           Var. 99-03 in
Internet (Dial-up access)                                                                                  1997 prices

Activation charge                                 0         ..   4,500   3,500  3,500  3,500  3,500    0     -100%

Monthly rental charge                            16.79      ..   5,000   4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500    -15%

Internet com., price per hour                    1.12       ..    960    320    300    300    300    300      -21%

Note: tariffs exclude VAT, duration of calls is 3min

Source: Autorié de régulation de Mauritanie and operators.




                                                                  - 26 -

                                Telecommunications Access Indicators: Regional Comparison


                                    Total Telephone Penetration (in %)                      Internet (2002)                   Pop. (2002)          Income

                                                                          % of                                                                      GNI per
                                                                       Mobile in    Users per Hosts per PC per                      Rural pop.        cap.
                                Sept                       CARG 95-      Total        10.000     10.000       100           Total,   (% of total    (current
                                2003      2002      1995    02 (in%)     (2002)       inhab.     inhab.      inhab.        million     pop)          US$)


Botswana                        34.65    32.85      4.09       35         73          290.70       9.40       4.07           1.71       50           2980

Burkina Faso                    1.90      1.29      0.30       23         58          20.90        0.34       0.16          11.83       83            220

Cote d'Ivoire                   8.68      8.27      0.86       38         75          54.58        2.67       0.93          16.77       56            610

Ethiopia                        0.61      0.60      0.25       13         12           7.42        0.01       0.15          67.33       84            100

Gabon                           22.59    23.97      3.35       32         90          192.46       0.61       1.92           1.29       17           3120

Gambia                          12.09    10.08      1.89       27         72          182.22       4.14       1.38           1.38       68            280

Ghana                           4.74      3.34      0.41       35         62          78.43        0.14       0.38          20.07       63            270

Kenya                           7.35      5.18      1.01       26         80          125.27       0.93       0.64          31.34       65            360

Madagascar                      1.79      1.40      0.30       25         73          34.57        0.32       0.44          16.44       69            240

Mali                            2.45      1.03      0.19       28         48          23.52        0.15       0.14          11.35       68            240

Mauritania                      11.07    10.39      0.41       59         89          37.28        0.29       1.08           2.83       40            410

Mozambique                      2.37      1.86      0.40       25         75          16.45        1.06       0.45          18.44       66            210

Nigeria                         2.37      1.92      0.41       25         70          34.98        0.09       0.71         132.78       54            290

Senegal                         9.10      7.72      0.98       34         71          104.20       0.76       1.98          10.01       51            470

South Africa                    40.28    41.05     11.49       20         74          682.01      43.75       7.26          43.58       42           2600

Uganda                          2.73      1.81      0.21       36         88          40.49        0.91       0.33          23.40       85            250

Zimbabwe                        5.80      5.51      1.42       21         55          429.75       2.05       5.16          12.97       63            n/a


WORLD AVERAGE                     ..      36.5     13.78       15         51.2        981.79     235.91       9.26         6,201.38     52           5080

SSA AVERAGE                     5.81      5.26      1.25       23        71.41        93.04        3.48       1.05         687.99       67            450
SSA AVERAGE Exc. SA             3.34      2.69      0.48       28        68.53        50.66        0.58       0.68         655.63        ..            ..


Note: 3rd Q 2003 Population based CAGR of period 1997-2002


Source: WB Analysis based on ITU World Telecommunications Indicators Database, Middle East and Africa Wireless Analyst for 2003 Data on Mobile and WDI.




                                                                  - 27 -

                                              Financial Performance of Mauripost

                                          in MUM     1997          1998          1999          2000          2001        2002     Est. 2003
Performance of Mauripost
Total Turnover                                        147          167            129            227          215        190         241
Total Turnover in US$                               966,031      885,696       613,780       944,638        847,283    700,074     899,254
Terminal dues for international traffic                29           37             13             43           40         27          50
Budgeted operating subsidy                             ..           ..              ..           458          438        395         347
Budgeted operating subsidy in US$                      ..           ..              ..      1,908,333      1,722,375  1,457,027   1,294,776
Staff cost                                             ..          293              ..           261          295        261         220
Number of employee                                     ..          282              ..             ..          ..        132         132
Profit after taxes                                     ..          -423             ..           -42          -31        -175         ..
Profit after taxes in US$                              ..      -2,244,270           ..       -175,000       -121,903   -645,518       ..
Profit after taxes excluding subsidies                 ..          -423             ..          -500          -469       -570         ..
Profit after taxes excluding subsidies in US$                  -2,244,270           ..      -2,083,333 -1,844,278 -2,102,545          ..
Number of post offices                                 61           61             61             61           24         24          24
Ratios
Terminal rates as % of turnover                       20%          22%           10%            19%          19%         14%         21%
Staff cost as % of turnover                            ..         175%              ..         115%          137%       137%         91%
Subsidy as % of turnover                               ..           ..              ..         202%          204%       208%         144%


Source: Mauripost and project-funded consultant's reports.
Notes:
(a) financial information and postal statistics are unreliable;
(b) the time series embody two major statistical ruptures: one in 2000 following the separation of the OPT and one in 2003 with the
adoption of new accountancy conventions. As a result data are difficult to analyse.
(c) 2003 data of rough estimations
(d) the increase in the turnover of Mauripost in 2003 is particularly difficult to interprete. It is the outcome of several elements whose
individual impact cannot be distangled with any accuracy. They include: (i) a substantial increase of postal tariffs in March 2003; (ii)
better paiment rate of letter boxes; (iii) improved accountability mecanisms for international dues and (iv) the change of accountancy
conventions. In other word what is attributable to Mauripost's improved performance cannot be isolated from the impact of the change
of the accountancy system.

(e) the cumulated amount of budgeted operating subsidies between 2000 and 2003 is 1638 MUM.

(f) figures in italic are approximations




                                                                 - 28 -

                                       Postal and Financial Services Statistics

                                                 1997         1998         1999        2000     2001      2002      2003
Traffic colis postaux
Number received                                  1,832        1,712          ..       1,380     1,335     1,200     1,500
Number dispatched                                 264          178           ..         60       55        52        65
Traffic EMS (a)
Number received                                  8,417       10,544          ..       4,266     4,561     4,231     4,540
Number dispatched                               10,996        8,754          ..       4,270     4,888     4,213     4,918
Traffic ordinaire
Number received                                3,923,863   3,413,761         ..     3,564,561 3,863,567 4,042,764 4,349,324
Number dispatched                              1,162,288    999,568          ..      879,532  957,845   901,532   1,104,533
Letter boxes
Number                                             ..           ..        14,574     14,574    14,574    14,574    14,574
Number rented                                      ..           ..         5,240      5,342     4,989     5,175     6,533
Avoir total CCP en millier UM en fin d'année (ouguiya)
Avoirs                                         569,771      743,179      656,548     736,030  703,611   860,259   806,535
# comptes                                       13,240       15,502       17,804     22,110    22,300    23,222    23,769
Produits et taxes percues                       30,289       43,414       42,237     55,000    57,000    62,000    70,000
Avoir total CNE en millier UM en fin d'année (ouguiya)
Avoirs                                         474,902      635,254      725,578     741,117  754,007   804,261   851,012
# comptes                                       19,050       20,636       22,499     23,912    25,163    26,562    27,244
Number of express-mail firms                       3            3            5           5        5         5         5


Source: Mauripost
Notes: (a) in 1999 the method to count was corrected in order to eliminate double-counting




                                                            - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increased access & quality of
communications & info services at more
competitive prices :
1.1. main line/100 inh.:                      1.1. 1% (2002)                                  1.1. 1.19% (2002); 1.39% (2003)
1.2. mobile subscribers/100 inh.:             1.2. 0.1% (2002)                                1.2. 9.14% (2002); 12.7% (2003)
1.3. payphones/inh:                           1.3. 0.08% (2002)                               1.3. 0.19% (2002); 0.24% (2003)
1.4. main lines/100 inh. outside Nouakchott & 1.4. 0.6% (2002)                                1.4. n.a. (2002); 0.63% (2003)
Nouadhibou:
1.5. total teledensity/100 inh.               1.5. 1.1% (2002)                                1.5. 10.33% (2003); 14.08% (2003).
1.6. number of faults/line decrease after the 1.6. -20% annually (2002)                       1.6. -23% (2002); -39% (2003)
privatization of the incumbent
1.7. reduced waiting period for telephone     1.7. no target                                  1.7. 28 days (contractual arrangements in
connection                                                                                    2003)
1.8. telecommunications tariff basket price   1.8. -50% overall (2002)                        1.8. no base defined, see table in section 10.
2. Increased variety of new services offered
by private operators:
2.1. Availability of Cellular services:       2.1. mid 2000                                   2.1. October 2000
2.2. Internet access:                         2.2. available in all regions                   2.2. yes since end 2000
2.3. Availability of paging:                  2.3. no target                                  2.3. service became obsolete
2.4. Diversification of postal services:      2.4. no target                                  2.4. new services included: mail dispatch at
                                                                                              home, advertising in mail boxes, and new
                                                                                              financial services.
3. Increased level of private investment in
telecom infrastructure and services:
3.1. Private cellular operator:               3.1. mid-2000.                                  3.1. license issued in June 2000
3.2. Sale of a strategic stake in incumbent   3.2. at least 30% by end 2000.                  3.2. sale of 54% in April 2001
operator:


    Sources: Autorié de régulation de Mauritanie, Operators, ITU World Telecommunications Indicators database
    and WDI.
Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
4. New legal and regulatory framework in
place:
4.1. Telecommunications Law                   4.1. adopted by Government by 05/1999           4.1. 05/1999 and enacted 07/1999
4.2. Related legal text on interconnection,   4.2. Interconnection regime, new tariff policy, 4.2.
universal access, tariffs, etc adopted and    and universal access policy adopted by end      - Decree on the exclusivity of Mauritel (
published in the Journal official.            1999, numbering policy and frequency            11/2000);
                                              management plan by mid-2000.                    - Degree on interconnection (12/2000);
                                                                                              - Draft decree on retail tariff prepared by end
                                                                                              2000 but never approved;
                                                                                              - Draft decree on universal access prepared
                                                                                              by end 2000 but never approved due to
                                                                                              creation of APAUS;
                                                                                              - Decree on regulation and other fees
                                                                                              (03/2001);
                                                                                              - Decree on frequency fees (03/2001);
                                                                                              - Arrêté on spectrum organization and
                                                                                              management (02/2001);
                                                                                              - Decree on dispute resolution (02/2001);
                                                                                              - Decree on equipment and homologation:
                                                                                              (02/2001);
                                                                                              - Decree on numbering plan (03/2001); on
                                                                                              emergency services and directory services
                                                                                              (02/2001)
                                                                                              - Decree on modalities to grant and control
                                                                                              licenses and authorizations (02/2001)
5. Regulatory Agency:
5.1. Legal text establishing the regulatory   5.1. adopted by 09/1999                         5.1. 07/1999




                                                                   - 30 -

agency
5.2. Organizational structure, budget,          5.2. by 12/1999                          5.2. Reports finalized in finalized in
operating procedures and three year                                                      mid-2000.
business plan
6. Key Telecommunications policy and
regimes agreed on:
6.1. Interconnection regime                     6.1. by 12/1999                          6.1. Mid-2000
6.2. New tariff policy                          6.2. by 12/1999                          6.2. Mid-2000
6.3. Universal access policy                    6.3. by 12/1999                          6.3. Mid-2000
6.4. Numbering policy                           6.4. by 06/2000                          6.4. Mid-2000, implemented 10/2001
6.5. Frequency management plan                  6.5. by 06/2000                          6.5. Mid-2000
7. New licenses to operators:
7.1. First cellular license tender launched and 7.1. launched by end 1999 and awarded by 7.1. Launched in 03/2000
granted to a private operator                   03/2000
7.2. Licensing of an incremental number of
other new infrastructure providers and          7.2. by end 2002                         7.2. Two GMPCS licenses awarded in 2002
services providers
8. Privatization of the incumbent:
8.1. Sale of stake to a strategic partner       8.1. transaction completed by 12/2000    8.1. transaction completed by 04/2001
9. National strategy of communications and
information service delivery to rural and
disadvantaged communities:
9.1. Strategy for rural access                  9.1. 06/2000                             9.1. not done. National ICT strategy financed
                                                                                         instead
9.2. National workshop on rural connectivity    9.2. in 2000                             9.2. in 2000
and information applications
9.3. Pilot program to improve universal
access designed                                 9.3. in 2001                             9.3. not done due to creation of APAUS
9.4. Postal law adopted
                                                9.4. 12/1999                             9.4. approved in ministerial council in
                                                                                         02/2004 and due to be passed by Parliament
9.5. Postal development plan prepared                                                    in 05/2004
                                                9.5. 03/2000                             9.5. 05/2000
10. Media and information campaign to           10. no target                            10. campaign carried out in XX
increase awareness by all stakeholders of
new environment
11. Project management, procurement and         11. no target, specific indicator        11. various training provided, capacity
financial management capacity developed.                                                 developed

1 End of project




                                                                  - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Establishment of Legal & Regulatory Framework for             3.20             5.29            165
telecom Sector
Preparation & Execution of Privatization Transaction of       1.50             1.01             67
telecom Operator
Strategy for Rural Access to Communications &                 4.50             2.31             51
Information Services and POstal Development
Media and Information Campaign                                0.20             0.29            144
Capacity Building & Project Management                        0.60             1.29            215
PPF Refinancing                                               0.40             0.30             75

Total Baseline Cost                                          10.40           10.49
 Physical Contingencies                                       1.00             1.00
 Price Contingencies                                          0.60             0.06
                         Total Project Costs                 12.00           11.55
                   Total Financing Required                  12.00           11.55


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.50             1.20          0.30          0.00        5.00
                                  (3.50)            (0.90)      (0.20)          (0.00)      (4.60)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00          6.30          0.00        6.30
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (5.70)          (0.00)      (5.70)
4. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00          0.70          0.00        0.70
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)      (0.50)
   Total                           3.50             1.20          7.30          0.00        12.00
                                  (3.50)            (0.90)      (6.40)          (0.00)     (10.80)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.01             0.42         0.00           0.05       3.48
                                  (3.01)           (0.29)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (3.30)
3. Services                        3.76             0.13         2.11           0.13       6.13


                                                 - 32 -

                                           (3.76)            (-0.09)            (1.48)            (0.00)           (5.15)
   4. Operating Costs                      0.00                0.00              0.55             0.04              0.59
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.28)
       Total                               6.77                0.55              2.66             0.22             10.20
                                           (6.77)             (0.20)            (1.76)            (0.00)           (8.73)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (a)
       managing the project, and (b) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.        Bank          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Establishment of Legal &        3.50        0.20         0.00         4.97         0.33       0.00       142.0    165.0      0.0
Regulatory Framework for
telecom Sector
Preparation & Execution         1.60        0.10         0.00         0.99         0.02       0.00       61.9      20.0      0.0
of Privatization
Transaction of Telecom
Operator
Strategy for Rural Access       4.70        0.60         0.00         2.22         0.09       0.00       47.2      15.0      0.0
to Communications &
Information Servces and
Postal Development
Media & Information             0.20        0.00         0.00         0.28         0.01       0.00       140.0     0.0       0.0
Campaign
Capacity Building &             0.40        0.30         0.00         0.78         0.51       0.00       195.0    170.0      0.0
Project Management




                                                          - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic costs and benefits analysis was not carried out during appraisal.




                                                  - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1998                  3    (1) TTL - SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ECONOMIS
                                             (1) TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             (1) LEAD OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER
              June/July 1998            3    (1) TTL - SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (1) OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1) TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST
              November 1998             3    (1) TTL - SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (1) OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1) TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1999                3    (1) TTL - SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
                                             TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             (1) ECONOMIST
              May 1999                  5    (1) RESIDENT
                                             REPRESENTATIVE
                                             (1) TTL - SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (1) SR. COUNSEL (LEGAF)
                                             (1) ECONOMIST
                                             (1) PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST

 Supervision

              November 1999             2    TASK TEAM LEADER - SR.           S              HS
                                             FINANCIAL ECONOMIST (1)
                                             (1) SR.
                                             TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             ENGINEER
              05/02/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S              HS

              05/02/2000                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S              HS
              08/22/2000                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S              HS
                                             TELECOMS ENGINEER (1);
                                             RESIDENT ECONOMIST (1);



                                              - 35 -

                                           PROCUREMENT EXPERT (1);
                                           IT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                           (1)
               08/22/2000              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          S    HS
                                           TELECOMS ENGINEER (1);
                                           ECONOMIST (1)
               November 2001           4   TTL - SR. FINANCIAL                S    HS
                                           ECONOMIST (10; SR.
                                           TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                           ENGINEER (1); POSTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1); RESIDENT
                                           ECONOMIST
               02/01/2002              2   TTL- SR. TELECOMS                  S    HS
                                           ENGINEER (1); SR. POSTAL
                                           SPECIALIST
               09/23/2002              2   TTL - SR.TELECOM                   S    HS
                                           ENGINEER (1); SR. POSTAL
                                           POLICY SPEC (1)
               February 2003           1   SR. POSTAL SPECIALIST (1)          S    HS
               03/11/2003              2   SR. TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          S    HS
                                           SR. POSTAL POLICY SPEC (1)

               July 2003               1   TTL - SR. TELECOM
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               10/03/2003              3   TTL - SR. TELECOM                  S    HS
                                           ENGINEER (1); SR. POSTAL
                                           SECTOR SPEC (1); JPA (1)

 ICR
               March 2004             2     TTL - SR. TELECOM
                                            ENGINEER (1); JPA (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                         133.28
  Appraisal/Negotiation                10.84                         34.83
  Supervision                        102.86                         308.30
  ICR                                   5.06                         23.95
  Total




                                            - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Autorité de Régulation de Mauritanie, Annual Report, Les Echos various editions and relevant
legal and other regulatory documents available at www.are.mr.
Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Mauritania, May 21 1997, No. 16595.
Nair G. (2003) "Enhanced National Capacity in Telecommunications Sector Reforms, Africa
Region Findings, 225, April 2003, World Bank.
Nair G. and Tinchev S. (2001) Liberalizing Telecommunications in Mauritania, Findings, Africa
Region, 71, December.
Nair G. and Tinchev S. (2002) "Développement et concurrence: l'exemple de la Mauritanie",
ENA Mensuel, Paris, February 2002.
République Islamique de Mauritanie, Déclaration de politique sectorielle des Postes et
Télécommunications, adoptée le 22 mars 1998.
Wilhelm V. and Mueller S. (2003) The Ingredient of Capacity Enhancement: Three Case Studies
in Telecommunications, World Bank Institute, Working Paper.




                                              - 39 -

Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution




                           Islamic Republic of Mauritania

                     Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
                                      (M.E.A.D)

                                       * * * * *

                  Telecommunications and Postal Sectors Reform Project
                                    (P.A.R.S.P.T)

                                  Project ID: P063791
                                   Credit 3238-MAU




                    Borrowers' Implementation Completion Report




                                          - 40 -

 I. INTRODUCTION

 Since 1987, the Government has undertaken a reform process of its parastatal sector, with a view
 to resizing and redefining the State's role in the economy, and transferring to the private sector
 the management, operation and development of commercial sectors.

 In this context, the Government adopted a posts and telecommunications sector policy statement
 in March 1998, drawing up an inventory of the situation in the sector and situating it in the
 current global environment, defining the objectives of the policy under consideration and outlining
 the planned reform program.

 The main aims of this reform led by the Government are:
§to adapt these two sectors to the new global economic environment (liberalization, deregulation,
rapid evolution, etc.) in order to take full advantage of it;
§to increase the posts and telecommunications sectors' contribution to the economic, social and
cultural development of the country;
§to create a legal and regulatory framework promoting the development of the telecommunications
sector and the emergence of national private initiatives, as well as fostering international
investment, including the privatization of the main telecommunications operator through a strategic
partnership for a better integration of the sector into global network alliances;
§to create conditions favorable to the development of both sectors, posts and telecommunications,
allowing them to improve their performance and become self-sufficient;
§to ensure that the increasing demand for services in these sectors is met in terms of the diversity,
quality, and competitiveness of the products offered.

 In the context of the parastatal sector reform program, an Inter-ministerial Committee (IC) was
 set up, in charge of the posts and telecommunications sector reform program. This committee
 consists of:
 -president: Ministry of Interior, Posts and Telecommunications (MIPT)
 -members: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development (MEAD)
             Ministry of Finances (MF)
             Governor of the Central Bank of Mauritania (BCM)

 The committee has been enlarged to include the Ministry of Water and Energy (MHE), and the
 Human Rights, Poverty and Insertion Commission (CDHLCPI).

 A Program Management Unit (PMU) was also created (by ministerial decree No. 799 from the
 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, dated 7 July 1998, on the creation and
 organization of the PMU). This Unit is in charge of preparing, coordinating and following up the
 execution of the parastatal sector reform program decided by the Government.

 The PMU is headed by a manager appointed by ministerial decree of the Ministry of Economic
 Affairs of Development. He also acts as secretary to the Inter-ministerial Committee.




                                                  - 41 -

 The Government requested IDA's assistance in the implementation of the considered reform. This
 was put in place in July 1999 through the Telecommunications and Postal Sectors Reform Project
 (PARSPT).

 The project is organized in five components, as follows:

 1)Implementation of a new legal and regulatory framework for the telecommunications
     sector:
§assistance to the Regulatory Authority (RA) through preparation of an organization plan and a
training plan for its staff;
§assistance in formulating and implementing the new regulatory framework;
§assistance in preparing the technical specifications for the licenses and concession agreements for
the first cellular operators and the main operator;
§assistance in preparing license models for all telecommunications services providers;
§assistance in preparing the bidding document to award the cellular license to an independent
private operator;
§assistance in preparing a WTO offer;
§assistance to the Regulatory Authority of three national experts covering the technical, legal and
financial aspects;
§provision to the Regulatory Authority of frequency spectrum management hardware and
software;
§training program for the Regulatory Authority staff.

 2) Assistance in preparation and execution of the telecommunications main operator
 privatization transaction, which translated into the introduction of a private strategic
 partnership with technology and marketing experience at the international level.

 3) Assistance in preparing a rural strategy to improve access to information and
     telecommunications services in rural areas and to develop the postal sector. This
     component aimed at preparing a strategy to develop institutional and technological solutions
     adapted for the provision of information and communication services in rural areas and to
     implement a development plan for the restructuring of the postal sector.

 4) Assistance in running an information and awareness campaign, aimed at informing the
 Mauritanian population and foreign and national investors about the objectives, strategy and steps
 of the reform as well as the new incentive program.

 5) Strengthening of capacities and project management. This component deals with the actual
 project management, establishment of the PMU, and the support in terms of technical assistance
 and training for partners in the project (Regulatory Authority, Special Procurement Commission,
 Project Management Unit under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development).

 II. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS

 The project achievements are presented through the exhaustive review of its different



                                                  - 42 -

 components.

 1. Implementation of a new telecommunications legal and regulatory framework

 At this level, the Project shows many significant results, among others:

 a) Telecommunications law: A telecommunications law was adopted by the Parliament in July
 1999. This law is inspired by international best practices while taking into account local
 specifities.

 b) Regulatory Authority: In accordance with the telecommunications law, an independent
 Regulatory Authority (RA) was set up in September 1999. It achieved highly positive outcomes:
§Award of a GSM license to a private operator in optimal conditions in June 2000:
                 - good preparation and transparency characterized the license awarding process
                 and reassured investors, encouraging top international operators to participate in
                 the bid;
                 - demanding license conditions with substantial spillovers (quality, coverage...);
                 - a record-high price (all other things being equal);
§Award of a second GSM license to the public operator under the conditions laid out in the law;
§Creation of a website: dissemination of law and decrees, bidding documents, questions and
answers related to the GSM tender, etc.;
§Almost all the required reports have been finalized and delivered: tariffs rebalancing,
interconnection principles, bidding document, GSM, frequency spectrum management, decree on
interconnection, principles of universal service implementation, RA organization (with the prospect
of a multi-sectoral RA), technical specifications for Mauritel, RA functioning, business plan,
training plan, WTO offer, numbering, bidding documents for frequency control and monitoring
equipments.

The Regulatory Authority acquired useful experience in a short time, which could be extended to
other sectors (water, energy), through the enlargement of the RA mandate to make it a
multi-sector Authority. Moreover, this experience of the RA has already been "exported".

 c) Multi-Sector Regulatory Authority (MRA): With regard to regulation, a law on the
 Multi-sectoral Regulatory Authority was adopted in January 2001. It enlarged the RA sphere of
 competence from telecommunications (as per Law 99-019 of July 11, 1999) to the water and
 energy sectors.

 This law defines MRA's:
§attributions;
§functions;
§structuring process;
§financing;
§audit.




                                                   - 43 -

 2. Separation of Posts from Telecommunications
 In the context of the implementation of the Posts and Telecommunications Sectors reform, the
 Office of Posts and Telecommunications (OPT) was divided in two distinct legal entities on
 December 29, 1999:

§a telecommunications firm, Mauritel,
§a postal firm: Mauripost

 The division was made much earlier than planned in the initial PARSPT calendar. The general
 managers for both Mauritel and Mauripost were appointed immediately, which meant they could
 be involved in the split-up process. This decision:
§ensured the success of the separation of the two entities, in a fair way and taking into account the
constraints of each entity (financial weakness of Mauripost, prospect of privatization for
Mauritel,...).
§enable the separation of activities to be completed in record time (less than two months),
§allowed each company to dedicate itself to its core business (financial viability of Mauripost,
adaptation to the new context for Mauritel and preparation of its privatization).

 The success of this operation is mainly due to the effective preparation and anticipation by the
 actors involved.

 3. Postal Sector Development

 a) Postal law:

 A draft postal law was elaborated and translated in Arabic. It has just been approved in Ministerial
 Council and will be presented before Parliament during the next parliamentary cession.

 b) Postal development plan:

 An important postal development plan was prepared in July 2000 and its implementation largely
 started within Mauripost. Its main components are:
         1.      modernization of postal services;
         2.      productivity and quality of services improvements;
         3.      modernization of financial services;
         4.      development of an active commercial strategy;
         5.      management system improvement;
         6.      implementation of a redundancy plan;
         7.      strengthening of capacities.

 All consultants involved in Mauripost development process delivered their reports, that are
 currently being used by the management of the company.

 Mauripost's restructuring can bear fruits only if the following conditions are met:


§promulgation of the postal law and the cahier des charges (and the annexed performance


                                                 - 44 -

contract) for Mauripost;
§cleaning up of Mauripost's accounting through payment of subsidies granted to Mauripost by the
State;
§implementation of control and monitoring of Mauripost's solvency in order to prevent identified
practices in the future;
§adoption of a precise schedule for the subsidies to be paid until Mauripost breaks even.

 4. Opening of the telecommunications main operator's capital

 The following activities were executed successfully:
§request for expressions of interest launched in May 2000;
§report on strategic options for the privatization of Mauritel prepared in June 2000;
§strategic option for the privatization of Mauritel chosen by the Government in June 2000:
                 -   opening of 51% of Mauritel's capital;
                 -   exclusivity to Mauritel until 2003 as a deadline;
                 -   tariff balancing;
                 -   cellular license awarded to Mauritel-Mobiles;
                 -   financial restructuring of Mauritel.
§complementary studies completed;
§information memorandum prepared;
§investment forum organized in December 2000;
§privatization completed in April 2001.

 5. Rural Access Strategy

 When originally planned, this component's objectives were to:

 - conduct studies to define a strategy in view of developing technological and institutional
 solutions adapted for the provision of information and communication services in rural areas;
 - execute this strategy in pilot zones through the provision of technical consulting services,
 training, and acquisition of supplies and equipment.

 In the meantime, the thinking on this issue evolved. In fact, accessibility for rural populations to
 information and communications services is part of the broader concept of universal access to
 services (telecommunications, electricity, water, new information technologies) which is linked to
 poverty reduction.

 In that context, the Government adopted in August 2000 in Ministerial Council a
 Communications on universal access to services (telecommunications, electricity, water, ICT) in
 order to implement a coherent policy.

 The project contributed, through the constitution of an inter-departmental working group, to the
 implementation of the above-mentioned "Communication" (draft law, implementation of an
 Agency for Universal Access to Services in 2002, etc.).




                                                  - 45 -

 Also noteworthy is the creation of a NICT working group in the context of the preparation of the
 first Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework (PRSF) of Mauritania (2000-2004). This group, that
 was supported by the project (computer equipment, website) and formulated the following main
 findings and recommendations:


§contribute to promote the use of NICT and reduce the digital divide created between the
countries of the world by the proliferation of the Internet;
§collect best practices relating to NICT and make them available in a format intelligible
todevelopment actors;
§support initiatives allowing content production (Health, Education, etc.) and promote national
presence on the Internet (current and innovative contents);
§exempt computer hardware and software;
§maximize the exploitation of the NICT to sustain development and fight poverty.

 6. Communication campaign

 The project launched an information campaign comprising several media initiatives (investment
 forum, Postal Day, advertisements in newspapers, etc.).

 The success of the opening of the telecommunications operator's capital is mainly due to the good
 preparation of the privatization documents and the information campaign organized around the
 investment forum.

 In effect, all the aspects of a nature reassuring to investors were clearly highlighted: country
 situation, political will, neutrality and professionalism of the Regulatory Authority, good
 preparation by Mauritel, transparency of the awarding process by the Special Procurement
 Commission, reminder about the conditions for awarding the first GSM license, etc.

 7. Development of national capacities

 Substantial efforts have been made to develop national capacities, among others:
§preparation and organization of a study tour to Peru and Bolivia (RA, PMU, PARSPT, Mauritel),
§participation in conferences, workshops, seminars and training sessions (regulation,
telecommunications, procurement, financial management, etc.)
§participation of national experts in the different studies conducted.

 The project supported the PMU to enable it to better play its role of coordinator of the parastatal
 sector; this support was financed by the PARSPT and the PARSAE.

 The project also supported the Special Procurement Commission and the Regulatory Agency.

 III. PROJECT MANAGEMENT

 1. Project Execution Unit




                                                  - 46 -

 The Project Execution Unit (PEU) fully fulfilled the tasks of coordination and execution of all of
 the activities planned under the project, which was not an easy task.

 In fact, the institutional framework of the posts and telecommunications sectors reform underwent
 a radical and dazzling transformation. With only one entity in the beginning, the OPT, the project
 ended with over ten institutions and operators (IC, PMU, RA, SPC, Mauritel Mattel, Mauritel
 Mobiles, Mauripost. etc.).

 The evolution was fast-paced but well suited to the situation. Each party's role was clearly
 defined in the Procedures Manual. The coordination worked well and no conflict of competences
 was recorded. The key-role played by the IC (guidance, fast decisions) and the invaluable inputs
 from the OPT as well as the RA managements in conducting the reform are to be noted.

 A detailed calendar of the project activities (274 tasks) was prepared before its launch. The
 foresight and the quality of this work contributed greatly to the significant results recorded at
 project level.

 2. Accounting and financial management

 Accounting and financial management were carried out in accordance with the Credit Agreement
 and Manual of Procedures provisions. Audits were conducted on a regular basis, and their
 findings taken into account.

 It is noteworthy to report that the PRSPT used the TOMPRO software, which is particularly
 adapted to IDA-financed projects.

 3. Procurement

 Procurement is a fundamental step in Project activities.

 Procurements of over one million ouguiya comes under the Special Procurement Commission
 (SPC). Lately, this limit was raised to two million ouguiya for supplies and equipment and three
 million ouguiya for intellectual services.

 Under the PARSPT, the SPC carried out a total of 37 procurements, 12 equipment procurements
 and 25 consulting services procurements. No objection from the Bank nor complaint from a
 bidder was recorded.

 Quality of procurement was always ensured, thanks to the following factors:
§The Special Procurement Commission accomplished remarkable feats. It carried out all the
evaluations of proposals in record time while strictly respecting all procedures.
§Processing of proposals by the Bank always complied with deadlines.

 IV. FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION INDICATORS.




                                                 - 47 -

Follow-up and evaluation indicators for the execution of the Project, detailed in Annex 6 of the
Credit Agreement, are shown below:

                                 Indicators                                             Comments
1. Division of the Office of Posts and Telecommunications into two            Completed
distinct entities.
2. Creation of a Telecommunications regulatory entity independent from Completed
operators and in conditions to reach financial autonomy by the end of the
Project.
3. Implementation of a new regulatory framework based on the new             Completed
telecommunications legislation, including specific provisions on
interconnection policies, universal access tariffs, frequencies and
numbering management and control, allowing provision of
infrastructures and services.
4. Delivery of at least the first mobile license to a private operator other Completed
than a branch of the main operator.
5. Completion of a contract for the sale of at least 30 percent of the       Option taken for 51 % of the
telecommunications main operator with an experienced strategic partner. capital; Completed.
6. Promulgation of a new postal law.                                         Draft law prepared, but not
                                                                             adopted yet
7. Preparation and implementation of a substantial part of a development Postal development plan
plan for the postal sector.                                                  prepared.
                                                                             Financing for this plan
                                                                             programmed.
8. Identification of a strategy to ensure better access to information        Not completed under the
and communications services in rural areas.                                   PARSPT.
                                                                              Mandate entrusted to the
                                                                              Agency for Universal Access.




                                                      - 48 -

Additional Annex 9. Partner Comments

République Islamique de Mauritanie
Honneur - Fraternite - Justice

Ministére des Affaires Economiques et du Développement

No: 00816/M.A.E.D/M
Nouakchott, le: 17 June 2004


                                        A Monsieur Pierre Guislain,
                                Chef de la Division de Politique Sectorielle ,
                                      Département des Technologies de
                                   l'Information et de la Communication ,
                                               Banque mondiale ,
                                             - Washington, D .C. -


Objet: Rapport d'achèvement du Projet d'Appui à la Réforme des Secteurs de la Poste et des
Télécommunications

Monsieur le Chef de division,

J'accuse réception de votre lettre, en date du 10 juin 2004, par laquelle vous nous avez soumis, pour avis, le
rapport d'achèvement du Projet d'appui à la réforme des secteurs de la poste et des télécommunications et je
vous en remercie.

Ce rapport reflète globalement les principaux résultats obtenus grâce à la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de
réforme adoptée par le Gouvernement en 1998 pour le développement des secteurs de la poste et des
télécommunications et qui a bénéficié d'un appui technique et financier soutenu de la Banque mondiale a
travers le projet précité.

L'engagement politique du Gouvernement, la définition claire des objectifs et 1'adoption d'un dispositif
institutionnel adéquat ont constitué des facteurs clés du succès du Projet, facteurs qui ont facilité
1'exécution dans un temps relativement court d'activités aussi complexes que la mise en place d'un cadre
juridique et réglementaire, la privatisation de 1'opérateur historique, l'introduction de la concurrence et la
création d'une autorité de régulation. Ces facteurs ont également permis d'enregistrer des progrès notables
dans le développement du secteur des télécommunications, aussi bien au niveau de 1'élargissement de la
couverture du territoire, de 1'amélioration de la qualité des services que de la réduction des coûts d'accès.

Toutefois, nous notons que les résultats obtenus pour le secteur postal sont moins significatifs que ceux du
secteur des télécommunications et qu'il y a lieu de poursuivre les efforts en vue d'approfondir la réflexion
sur la stratégie de développement de ce secteur.

En ce qui concerne le volet accès rural aux services d'information et de communication, l'apport du Projet
est resté modeste et particulièrement il n'a pas accompagné la mise en oeuvre des plans d'action de l'Agence
de Promotion de l'accès Universel créée en 2001 avec l'appui et le conseil de la Banque mondiale.




                                                     - 49 -

Enfin, le Gouvernement est conscient de la nécessité de maintenir et promouvoir la concurrence au sein du
secteur des télécommunications pour le développement de l'offre privée de services, de soutenir le
développement des compétences de 1'Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle, de promouvoir l'accès
universel conformément à sa stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté, en veillant à ne pas introduire de
distorsions dans le marché, et d'améliorer les performances de 1'opérateur postal.

Je suis sûr que ces différents éléments continueront à bénéficier de 1'attention nécessaire dans le cadre du
dialogue continu entre notre pays et la Banque mondiale.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Chef de division, 1'assurance de ma considération distinguée.



Abdallah Ould Souleymane Ould Cheikh-Sidia

Ampliations:
        - MIPT;
        - Représentant Résident, Banque mondiale, Nouakchott.


Tel: (222)525 16 12 1/525 13 18 Fax: (222) 525 51 10 - BP:238 - Nouakchott




                                                    - 50 -

- 51 -

