Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3238-MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Telecommunications and Postal Sectors Reform Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3238-MAU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1999, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated April 27, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance 
its telecommunications and postal sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
Page  2
“12.
(a) ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means,  collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goodsgoods and 
equipment produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goodsgoods 
and equipment, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the  Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Mauritanian Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
"Project Management Report" means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 3, 1998 and November 4, 1998 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"TPU" means Telecommunications and Postal Unit, the Project management 
unit in MAED; 
(g)
"MAED" means Ministère des affaires économiques et du développement, the 
Borrower’s ministry of economic affairs and development;
(h)
"Project Manual of Procedures" means the manuel de procédures  adopted by 
the Borrower in its form as transmitted by letter, dated May 11, 1999, referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, institutional 
arrangements, work-plans, training plans, monitoring and performance indicators, and 
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Manual of Procedures; and 
(i)
"WTO" means World Tradeelecommunications Organization. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goodsgoods, equipment and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  3
the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31June 30, 2002 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2009 and ending February 15, 
2039.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded, for three consecutive years, the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
Page  4
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goodsgoods, equipment and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association no later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future strategy for operation of the telecommunications and postal 
sector; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an amount 
equivalent to $400,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, by March 3015, June 15, September 15 
and December 15 in each year during Project implementation, such amounts as shall be 
required to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial 
deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
Page  5
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than sixfour months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association designed to: (i) strengthen its financial management system for the 
Project; and (ii) develop, no later than thirty months following the Effective Date, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, a system acceptable to the 
Association for the preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports, each of 
which:
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  6
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, no later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has: 
(a)
established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
established, or has caused to be established, a performing computerized 
accounting and financial management system in TPU, acceptable to the Association;
(c)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(d)
appointed: (i) the project manager in TPU, (ii) the procurement 
specialist, and (iii) the accountant and financial management specialistanalyst, all 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economic 
affairs and development (planning) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
B.P. 238
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Page  7
Cable address: 
Telex:
840 MTN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Abdallahi Ouldd Kebd
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and
   3,100,000
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
   3,800,000
100% of foreign
expendiutres and
70% of local
expenditures
(3)
Incremental
     100,000
50%
operating costs
Page  8
(4)
Refunding of
     300,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(5)
Allocated
     700,000
TOTAL
   8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goodsgoods, equipment or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goodsgoods, equipment or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;
(c)
the term “consultant services” includes expenses incurred for training, 
study tours, and workshops; and
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, audits, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility services, 
travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service, acquisition of vehicles and fuel. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goodsgoods and equipment 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and for expenditures for 
services under contracts with firms costing less than $50,000 or with individuals 
costing less than $ 10,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to expand access to communication and 
information services at competitive prices in the territory of the Borrower through 
the establishment of a legal, regulatory and institutional framework favorable to 
competitive private investment in the telecommunications sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A.
Establishment of a telecommunications legal and regulatory framework
1.
Preparation of draft laws and regulatory decrees and  administrative 
textsregulations: (a) enabling the market entry of newcompeting telecommunications 
operators, (b) establishing an independent regulator, and (c) laying down principles 
for interconnection, tariffs, universal access, numbering and frequency management and 
monitoring between operators and model interconnect agreements, through the provision 
of technical advisory services, carrying out of training and the acquisition of 
equipment.
2.
Carry out studies to prepare: (a) an optimal tariff structure, (b) frequency 
management, assignment, allocation and monitoring plans; (c) guidelines on universal 
access;implications (d) a samplelicense agreement for the main operator; (e) sample 
model licenses for all service providers; (f)sample bidding documents to grantfor the 
first cellularlicense for a private mobile service operator; and (g) an offer to WTO 
Page  9
on a list of commitments pertaining to telecommunication services, for international 
and regional connectivity through the provision of technical advisory services.through 
the provision of technical advisory services 
3.
Establish an independent telecommunications regulatory agency, pursuant to a 
three-year business plan, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
carrying out of training and the acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Preparation of a privatization strategy for the telecommunications 
operator 
1.
Carry out a financial audit and financial valuation of the Borrower’s main 
telecommunications operator arising from the restructuring of the Borrower’s Office 
des Postes et Télécommunications through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2.
Carry out studies to define a privatization strategy for the telecommunication 
entity, and carrying out said strategy through the provision of technical advisory 
services and the carrying out of training.
Part C:
Improvement of access to communication and information services 
Carrying out studies on a strategy to developesting innovative technological and 
institutional solutions for delivery of telecommunication and information services to 
the rural areas in the territory of the Borrower and the carrying out of said strategy 
in pilot test areas, through the provision of technical advisory services, the 
carrying out of training activities, and the acquisition of equipment.
Part D:
Development of the Postal Sector 
Preparation of laws and administrative regulations for the establishment of an 
independent postal entity separate from telecommunications operations and the 
preparation and carrying out of a postal development strategy, through the provision 
of technical advisory services, and the carrying out of training activities and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
Part E.
National Media and Awareness Campaign on the Reform Program 
Telecommunications
Preparation and carrying out of a national and international media and awareness 
communications strategy to increase awareness about emerging opportunities arising 
from the new legal and regulatory framework, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the carrying out of training activities. 
Part F:
 Project Management and Supervision 
Coordination, administration, supervision and monitoring of Project 
implementation, through the carrying out of training programs, acquisition of 
equipment and the provision of technical advisory services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of GoodsGoods and equipment
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and equipment shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
Page  10
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goodsgoods and equipment 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goodsgoods and equipment to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment for pilot activities referred 
to in Part C.1 of the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$5010,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for goods and equipment, estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 
equivalent per contract, 1,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3050,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000] equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goodsgoods and equipment and worksshall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract under Part B estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Country” and Participating Countries”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for implementation of the postal development plan, the design of pilot 
projects to increase rural access to telecommunications services under Part C 1 of the 
Project, preparation of workshops, ateliers and, seminars, special assignments and 
small studies and short time assignments under 90 days  may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. United Nations Agencies and non-governmental organizationsNGOs 
may be included in the shortlist and will be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for standard audits, and the Project audit under Part F3 of the Project 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract for tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Sourcing.
Services estimated to cost less than $25,000 per contract for tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.8 and 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded  in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 and 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  12
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to contracts pertaining to Project auditing, to each 
contract procured under single sourcing pursuant to Part C.4 of this Section II and to 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
 (c)
With respect to training programs, the training plan, agenda and budget 
will be reviewed semiannually prior to procurement.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Manual of Procedures and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or 
waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with the underterms set forth in the Manual of 
Proceduresof reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, on or about November 1, 1999, May 1, 2000, November 1, 2000, May 1, 2001, 
November 1, 2001, and May 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 1, 1999, June 1, 2000, December 
1, 2000, June 1, 2001, December 1, 2001, and June 1, 20021, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the 
matter.
3.
The Borrower shall cause TPU to include in the report for the second review  
referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of this Schedule, to be referred to as midterm review, 
in addition to the information furnished as set forth in subparagraph 2 (b) of this 
Schedule, an assessment of: (i) the main aspects of the draft license for the main 
telecommunications operator targeted to be privatized, with special regard to the 
scope and duration of any proposed exclusivity; (ii) the regulatory framework 
Page  13
developed following the promulgation of the new telecommunications law and 
consequences on the issuing of new licenses to providers; (iii) the preparation of an 
offer to the WTO; (iv) the activity and budget of the regulatory agency established 
under the Project during the period preceding the report; (v) the need for the 
establishment of a frequency management and monitoring system and the need for related 
equipment; (vi) the postal development plan; and (vii) the strategy to improve access 
to telecommunication and information services in rural areas of the territory of the 
Borrower.
4.
Coordination, management and supervision
The Borrower shall ensure that the following positions in TPU are staffed by 
suitably qualified and experienced personnel, satisfactory to the Association, until 
the completion of the Project: (a) a project manager; (b) an accountant and financial 
management specialist; and (c) a procurement specialist.
5.
The Borrower shall cause TPU to carry out, or have carried out:
(a)
by June 30, 2000, the studies referred to under Part  A, C. and D. of the 
Project;
(b)
by December 31, 2000 the studies referred to under Part B of the Project; 
, and
(c)
promptly upon completion of said studies, submit the proposed strategy to 
the Association for its review and comments and take all measures required on its part 
to implement said strategies, after having taken into account the views and 
recommendations of the Association concerning said strategy; and (b) the carrying out 
of said strategy in pilot test areas, promptly upon completion of said pilot tests, 
submit its conclusions on said tests to the Association for its review and comments 
and take all measures required on its part to promptly implement the recommendations 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association on behalf of the extension of the 
strategies applied in said tests..
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goodsgoods and equipment and services required for  the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
Page  14
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  15
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of the Project, 
referred to in Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement are the following:
1.
Creation of separate postal and telecommunications corporate entities from the 
Office des Postes et Télécommunications.
2.
Establishment of a telecommunications regulatory body independent of operators 
and with means to become financially autonomous by the end of the project.
3.
Establishment of a new regulatory framework based on the new telecommunications 
law with specific provisions for interconnection, tariff, and universal access, 
frequency management and monitoring and numbering policies which favor infrastructure 
and service provision by multiple operators.
4.
Issuance of at least the firstone mobile telephone service license to an private 
operator other than an affiliate of the main operator.
5.
Conclusion of a contract for the sale of at least 30% portion of the equity of 
the main telecommunications operator to an experienced strategic partner.
6.
Enactment of a new postal law.
7.
Preparation and execution of a substantial portion of a postal development plan.
8.
Identification of a strategy to ensure improved rural access to communications 
and information services.
