             Document of
          The World Bank




                                       Report No: 30232

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (CPL-38050 SCL-3805A SCPD-3805S)

                ON A

                LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$265 MILLION

               TO THE

      UNITED MEXICAN STATES

               FOR A

     TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
 TRAINING MODERNIZATION PROJECT




            October 15, 2004

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 12, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                        MX$1 = US$ 11.20
                                        US$ 1 = MX$0.0892

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBTA     Upper Secondary Technical Agricultural Centers (Centros de Bachillerato Tecnológico
         Agropecuario),
CBTI     Upper Secondary Technological Industrial Centers (Centros de Bachillerato Tecnológico
         Industrial),
CEA      Accredited Testing Center (Organismo de Evaluación Acreditado)
CECATI   Training Center for Industrial Skills (Centro de Capacitación para el Trabajo
         Industrial)
CETMAR   Upper Secondary Technical Ocean Centers (Centros de Estudios Tecnológicos del Mar)
CGUT     SEP's General Coordinating Entity for Technological Universities (Dirección General de
         Universidades Tecnológicas)
CIMO     Multiple Support Service Program (Programa de Calidad Integral y Modernización)
CONALEP  National Professional Technical Education School (Colegio Nacional de Educación
         Profesional Técnica)
CONEVyT  National Council on Lifelong Learning and Training (Consejo Nacional de Educación
         para la Vida y el Trabajo)
CONOCER  Trust in Support of the System of Occupational Standards and Certification (Fideicomiso
         de los Sistemas Normalizado de Competencias Laboral y Certificación de
         Competencia Laboral)
COSNET   SEP's Council of the National System of Technological Education (Consejo del Sistema
         Nacional de Educación Tecnólogica de la SEP)
GA       Guarantee Agreement
GEL      General Education Law of 1993
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
ICATE    SEP's Work Training Institute (Instituto de Capacitación para el Trabajo)
IL       Implementation Letter
LD       Legal Documents, including the LA and the GA
LA       Loan Agreement
NAFIN    Nacional Financiera S.N.C.(the Borrower)
NAFTA    Free Trade Agreement
OC       Licensed Certification Agency (Organismo Certificador)
PAC      Training Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación)
PAE      Employment Support Program (Programa de Apoyo al Empleo)
PAU      Project Administrative Unit
PROBECAT Labor Fellowship Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitación para el
         Trabajo)
PSC      Project Steering Committee

SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SEIT    SEP's Undersecretariat for Technical Education and Research (Subsecretaría de
        Educación Tecnológica e Investigación)
SEP     Secretary of Education (Secretaría de Eduación)
SHCP    Secretary of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Credito Público)
SICAT   For the Job Training System (Sistema de Capacitación para el Trabajo)
SME     Small and medium enterprises
STPS    Secretary of Labor and Public Welfare (Secretaría de Trabajo y Previsión Social)
UEPC    SEP's Undersecretariat for Educational Planning and Coordination (Subsecretaría de
        Planeación y Coordinación Educativa)
UTS     Upper technical secondary

                             Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                 Country Manager/Director:       Isabel Guerrero
                            Sector Director:     Ana-Maria Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Juan Prawda/Mark V. Hagerstrom

                                           MEXICO
                            MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P034490                                                  Project Name: MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING
Team Leader: Mark V. Hagerstrom                                      TL Unit: LCSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-38050; SCL-3805A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3805S
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (92%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Social risk reduction (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S); Social analysis and
                            monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/10/1993                                     Effective: 03/31/1995                08/11/1995
     Appraisal: 06/21/1994                                         MTR: 11/15/1996                  09/03/1998
      Approval: 10/27/1994                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          NAFIN/MINS EDUC & LABOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti                              Shahid S. Husain
Country Director:               Isabel Guerrero                                Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:                 Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:             Juan Prawda                                    Mari Minowa
ICR Primary Author:             Mark V. Hagerstrom


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Technical Education and Training Modernization Project (Proyecto de Modernización de la
Educación Técnica y Capacitación - PMETyC) aimed at improving the quality of technical education and
training system in Mexico so as to meet the critical needs of the country's productive sector in a flexible
manner.

PMETyC was designed and implemented with the intention of promoting the creation of a national system
of competency-based standards to be used by employers and the formal technical education system. The
creation of such a system had also the intended purpose of creating a transparent set of standards (basic,
generic or transversal, and sector-specific) of expected performance in the workplace, placing an emphasis
on the learning side of the teaching-learning equation, in contrast to the tendency to look at the
supply-dominated formal education stock.

The project design responded to the three very important transformations that occurred in Mexico in the
last decade, two in the education sector, and one in the economic sector of the country, which included: (i)
the decentralization of the basic educational services to the states in May of 1992; (ii) the updating of the
General Education Law (GEL) in 1993, whose Articles 44, 45 and 46 set the legal framework for parts of
this project; and (iii) the enactment of the Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Mexico, Canada and
the United States on January 1st, 1994. In particular, Article 45 of the GEL recognizes the need for the
training system provided by the education sector (Capacitación para el Trabajo) to conform to a system of
competency-based standards.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original Loan Agreement (LA), Guarantee Agreement (GA) and Letter of Implementation, hereby
referred as the Legal Documents (LD), were amended ten times during the life of the project (see section
3.4), including partial cancellations of the Loan which modified Schedule 1 to the LA. Notwithstanding
these amendments, the original project objectives remained unchanged throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The following four components were included in the project description of Schedule 2 to the original LA:
(a) establishment of a national system of competency standards and of a skills-testing and certification
system; (b) modernization of training programs; (c) stimulation of demand for competency-based
training and certification; and (d) project administration and studies.

Component A. Establishing a national system of competency standards and of a skills-testing and
certification system included the following two sub-components:

Sub-component A1 to develop a national competency standards (basic, generic or transversal and
sector-specific) system for individuals to be certified as competent to perform occupational functions and to
strengthen the Trust in Support of the System of Occupational Standards and Certification (Fideicomiso de
los Sistemas Normalizado de Competencia Laboral y de Certificación de Competencia Laboral -
CONOCER).

Sub-component A2           to develop and operate, through a network of private sector institutions or
enterprises validly licensed by the Trust (Organismos de Certificación - OC) and of individual or private
sector institutions or enterprises validly accredited by an OC (Centro de Evaluación Acreditado - CEA), a
national testing and certification program to measure and certify the attainment by individuals of the skill
levels specified by the competency-based standards developed under sub-component A1 above.



                                                      - 2 -

Component B. Modernizing training programs to increase their flexibility and relevancy. This
component included the following two sub-components:

Sub-component B1          to develop and implement on a pilot basis new competency-based training modular
courses by the National Professional Technical Education School (Colegio Nacional de Educación
Profesional Técnica - CONALEP), the Center for Technical Studies in Industry and Services (Centro de
Estudios Tecnológicos Industrial y de Servicios - CETIS) and the Training Center for Industrial
Occupations (Centro de Capacitación para el Trabajo Industrial - CECATI).

Sub-component B2          to develop and implement new training materials by public and private training
institutions based on the competency-based modular courses described the sub-component B1 above.

Component C. Stimulating demand for competency-based training and certification to promote
private sector initiative and participation in training design and implementation. This component
included the following six sub-components:

Sub-component C1          to promote the competency standards developed under Component A.

Sub-component C2          to provide grants on a pilot basis to Mexican private sector enterprises in priority
productive sectors to develop and implement competency-based training programs for their workers and to
assess trainee attainment of competencies from such programs.

Sub-component C3          to provide grants to small and medium private enterprises (SMEs), under the
framework of the Multiple Support Service Program (Programa de Calidad Integral y Modernización -
CIMO), having as few as one and no more than 250 employees, to upgrade the skills of their labor-force
under the competency-based standards developed under Component A.

Sub-component C4          to provide competency-based training developed in Component A under the Labor
Retraining Fellowship Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitación para Trabajadores - PROBECAT).

Sub-component C5          to provide grants to cover a portion of the fees charged by the OCs and the CEAs
for individuals taking the tests required for obtaining certification of their acquired competencies.

Sub-component C6          to provide: (i) equipment to participating public and private training institutions;
and (ii) training and certification for instructors required for teaching of the skills necessary to meet the
competency standards developed under Component A.

Component D. Project administration, information systems and studies included the following four
sub-components:

Sub-component D1          to carry out studies to, inter alia: (i) determine the mechanisms for, and evaluate
the probabilities of, eventual attainment of financial solvency by the Trust; (ii) identify and test (first in
1995, and thereafter as a comparative follow-up in 1999) the skills and competencies generally found
across occupational clusters and economic sectors in the Mexican productive sector; and (iii) identify the
combination of basic skills most likely to contribute to an individual's success in attainting competency
certification.




                                                      - 3 -

           Components                        Appraisal estimate total cost and financing          Rating
                                                           (US$ million)
                                      Total           IBRD          Government      Beneficiaries


 Component A. Establishing a           33.1            17.8            15.3             0.0
 national system of
 competency standards and of
 a skills testing and
 certification system.

 Component B. Modernizing             152.8           115.0            37.8             0.0
 training programs.

 Component C. Stimulating             208.0           118.4            60.9             28.7
 demand for competency-
 based training and
 certification.

 Component D. Project                  18.1            13.8             4.3             0.0
 administration, information
 systems and studies

 Total                                412.0           265.0            118.3            28.7
 Source: Annex 9 ­ Project Component by Financier ­ of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
 The World Bank, Report 13416-ME, page 86, October 5, 1994

Sub-component D2          to carry out studies to, inter alia: (i) improve the Secretary of Education's (SEP)
data base and information systems to identify training course enrollment trends; (ii) evaluate differences in
labor market performance and employment success between trainees who participated in traditional
vocational with those in competency-based courses; and (iii) evaluate training institutions' adaptation from
traditional to competency-based training.

Sub-component D3          to carry out studies to, inter alia: (i) evaluate the effectiveness of
competency-based training provided under CIMO to small and medium enterprises; (ii) evaluate the
effectiveness of competency-based training provided under the PROBECAT scheme; (iii) evaluate, on the
basis of case studies, the impact of competency-based training on selected private sector enterprises; and
(iv) evaluate the competency-based skills certification process and related certification incentives program.

Sub-component D4          to manage through the Project Administrative Unit (PAU) and the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) the operation of this project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The US$265 million Loan for this project was approved by the Board on October 27, 1994. The LDs were
signed on February 7, 1995 and became effective on August 11, 1995. After Board approval, the LDs
underwent ten amendments (including three partial cancellations of the Loan modifying Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement), none of which substantially affected the original objectives (the dates of each amendment
appear in Annex 7 of this report). The amendments included: (i) partial Loan cancelations; (ii) reallocation
among the different expenditure categories of Schedule I to the LA; (iii) addition of new executing
agencies; (iv) addition of new category of expenditures (construction); (v) modification of the PAU's
structure and staff; (vi) extensions of deadlines in carrying out and completing, and in some cases deleting,




                                                      - 4 -

required evaluation studies; (vii) addressing emergency for situations caused by unforeseen natural causes;
(viii) modification to cost-recovery formulas for Component C; (ix) modification to implementation
schedules and project performance indicators; and (x) extension of the closing date.

At the request of the Borrower, this project underwent three partial Loan cancelations during project
implementation. The first one for US$30 million (11% of the total Loan Amount), was carried out on July
14, 1995 under the context of the first amendment to the LDs. Accordingly, Schedule 1 to the LA was
modified and the revised total Loan decreased to US$235 million.           This cancellation was a direct
consequence of the severe financial and economic crisis Mexico experienced at the end of 1994 where the
Mexican peso suffered a 200% devaluation from 3 Mexican pesos to 9 per dollar. The second Loan
cancelation of US$39,688,051.39 was carried out on September 7, 2001 under the context of the eight
amendment to the LDs.         Schedule 1 was again modified and the revised total Loan decreased to
US$195,311,948.61. The Bank and the Borrower recommended this second cancellation following the
supervision missions of May and August 2001 that identified significant unspent amounts of the Loan
proceeds, mainly due to the budgetary restrictions and cuts made in the CY01 Government's Budget by the
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (SHCP). The third and final partial cancellation of US$14
million was carried out on August 1, 2002 under the ninth amendment to the LDs. Schedule 1 was
modified and the total Loan decreased to US$181,311,948.61. This cancellation was requested by the
Borrower as a result of a new review made by the Bank and the PAU in March 2002 on the undisbursed
Loan and the Borrower's likely spending capacity in the remaining 15 months until the closing of the
project.

The following amendments added several executing agencies to the project: (i) under the third amendment
dated February 27, 1998, the Upper Secondary Technical Agricultural Centers (Centros de Bachillerato
Tecnológico Agropecuario - CBTAs), the Upper Secondary Technical Forestry Centers (Centros de
Bachillerato Tecnológico Forestal), the Upper Secondary Technical Continental Water Centers (Centro de
Estudios Tecnológicos de Aguas Continentales) and the Upper Secondary Technical Ocean Centers (
Centros de Estudios Tecnológicos del Mar - CETMAR); (ii) under the fifth amendment dated May 24,
1999, SEP's Upper Secondary Technological Industrial Centers (Centros de Bachillerato Tecnológico
Industrial - CBTIs), SEP's General Coordinating Entity for Technological Universities (Dirección General
de Universidades Tecnológicas - CGUT) and SEP's Work Training Institute (Instituto de Capacitación
para el Trabajo - ICATE); (iii) under the sixth amendment dated October 22, 1999, the National Institute
for Adult Education (Instituto Nacional de Educación para los Adultos); (iv) under the seventh
amendment dated March 26, 2001, the Colegio de la Frontera Sur; and (v) under the tenth, and last
amendment, authorized by the Bank on September 4, 2002, countersigned by the Borrower represented by
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) on September 5, 2003 and countersigned by the Guarantor represented by
SHCP, on June 10, 2003, the Coordination of Upper General Secondary (Dirección General del
Bachillerato).

The fourth and seventh amendments, dated respectively July 23, 1998 and March 26, 2001, created a new
category of expenditure (construction) in Schedule I to the LA.         The former amendment aimed at
refurbishing the offices of CONOCER, while the latter, channeled a modest amount of project funds (under
and emergency program launched by the Mexican Government) for the reconstruction of some
project-related CONALEP school buildings damaged by a severe hurricane. The second amendment dated
October 9, 1997, modified Schedule 1 to the LA.

The third amendment to the LDs of February 27, 1998 transformed the original structure of the PAU and
increased its staff to better coordinate the execution of component B and sub-component D2 and serve as
the project's linkage with other implementation agencies, namely CONOCER, CONALEP, INEA and the


                                                     - 5 -

Ministry of Labor and Public Welfare (STPS) for the preparation of reports and communication with the
World Bank.

Under the context of this third amendment, the Bank also accepted extending the deadlines in carrying out
and completing certain evaluation studies, specifically the one regarding the difference in labor market
performance and employment success between trainees who participate in the competency-based courses
provided by component B and those who participated in the traditional courses. It also accepted extending
the deadline to submit to the Bank the project annual review. The fifth amendment dated May 24, 1999
extended the closing date from September 30, 2000, to June 30, 2003, modified the project's
implementation schedule and agreed on the corresponding project performance indicators. The seventh
amendment dated March 26, 2001 approved changes to the implementation schedule and the project
performance indicators.

Finally, during the March 2002 supervision mission the following amendments were discussed with the
Bank: (i) recognition of the replacement of PROBECAT and CIMO (which had disappeared) by the
Training Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación - PAC) and the Employment Support
Program (Programa de Apoyo al Empleo - PAE), respectively; (ii) cancellation of some tracer studies
included in Part D of Schedule 2 to the LA; (iii) modification of the cost-sharing ratios of training provided
by Component C of the project through STPS, increasing from 40% to 50% the contribution of SME
employers and decreasing from 60% to 50% the Government contribution through the project; and (iv)
modification of Schedules 1 and 2, as well as section 1.02 to the LA. On September 4, 2002 the Bank
approved this (tenth) amendment to the LA, NAFIN (the Borrower) countersigned on September 5, 2002,
SHCP (the Loan Guarantor) countersigned on June 10, 2003 (20 days before the Loan closing date) and
the Mexican Federal Treasury ratified this amendment on October 29, 2003 (almost four months after the
Loan closing date and two days before the expiration of the grace period to document all expenditures
incurred by the project against the Loan before the closing date).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Even though no formal Quality at Entry Criteria was available and required at the time this project was
prepared and appraised in 1993-1994, for purposes of evaluating quality at entry, this ICR follows current
Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) standards. Firstly, the project was consistent with the Mexico's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) available at that time (Report No. 13008-ME of May 13, 1994) which
emphasized as main goals poverty reduction, human resource development and private sector led growth
(pages 10-12). Accordingly, the CAS highlighted the need to invest in skills training and to improve further
the efficiency of resource allocation in technical training as well as the targeting of training for the
unemployed. The CAS also recommended the progressive introduction of competency-based education and
capacity building for small entrepreneurs (para. 44).

Notwithstanding that the preparation process had the political support of the Mexican Government
(Ministries of Finance, Education and Labor) and was prepared by a qualified technical team, not all of the
project components were fully owned by their respective designated stakeholders, particular SEP's
Undersecretariat for Technical Education and Research (SEIT). Subsequently, the level of participation
necessary to meet project objectives was never achieved.

At the time of project preparation and appraisal, there were no other Bank-financed competency-based
experiences available to extract lessons learned during the design process of this innovative project. There
were some Bank-financed traditional vocational and technical education operations, such as, inter alia the
Mexico: Third Technical Training Project - CONALEP (Loan 3358-ME) and the Labor Market and



                                                    - 6 -

Productivity Project - PROBECAT (Loan 3542-ME), which differed substantially from the original ethos
of PMETyC. Notwithstanding the lack of other related Bank-financed projects, the preparation team
undertook a systematic and extensive effort to learn from other international competency-based experiences
through study tours to Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The model operated by the UK,
where labor and education are under one single Ministry, finally served as the basis for PMETyC's design.
The resultant project design was very ambitious and complex involving two Ministries (SEP and STPS) in
its envisaged implementation. The project took about three years to get off the ground after Board
approval of the Loan. One project component (D), was only partially implemented.

A thorough review of the project preparation files reveals other quality at entrance shortcomings, both from
the Bank's side as well as from the Borrower's. No implementation readiness assessment was ever carried
out, despite that Annex 7 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) includes a very detailed implementation
plan, and Annex 2 of the SAR includes an evaluation of CONALEP and PROBECAT stemming out from
the implementation of the Loans 3358-ME and 3542-ME. In addition, except for the economic evaluation
undertaken for CONALEP and PROBECAT, no formal economic, cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness
analyses were done for the remaining components of the project during the preparation phase. The project
design that was appraised in June 21, 1994, did not include a first-year procurement plan, nor detailed
terms of reference of the technical assistance and studies required during the implementation cycle. Despite
that the project description included the carrying out of tracer and impact evaluation studies, the design did
not incorporate: (i) a monitoring and evaluation system and methodology to update, from the onset of
project implementation, the performance indicators; and (ii) the baseline data of project performance
indicators. Satisfactory compliance with all of the above-mentioned output and impact oriented quality at
entry criteria shortcomings are required nowadays by the Bank in the processing of any new operation
before the negotiations phase.

Furthermore, as discussed further in section 4.1 of the ICR, it is clear that the project as defined in the
Project Description of Schedule 2 to the LA was not addressed at the objectives it sought to achieve.

Finally, no social assessment, including employers and labor market surveys, were made during the
preparation and appraisal phases concerning: (i) the demand for training; (ii) the likelihood of SME to
participate and share the cost of training their employees; (iii) the entrepreneurs commitment to the idea of
establishing a national system of competency-based standards and of a skill-testing and certification
system; and (iv) the desirability of the upper secondary technical education system stakeholders to
modernize their services through the introduction of a competency-based modular curricula.

Given the above observations, the ICR mission ranks the Quality at Entry of this project as unsatisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

There is little available evidence to indicate that the project was successful in achieving its stated
developmental objectives as established in the Project Description of Schedule 2 to the LA, namely
improving the quality of technical education and training system in Mexico so as to meet the critical needs
of the country's productive sector in a flexible manner. Qualitative observations stemming out from the
different Bank supervision missions seem to indicate that the project did not: (i) ensure wide participation
of the private sector, especially SMEs, in using CONOCER's approved competency-based standards in the
training and certification of their employees; (ii) increase the flexibility and relevance of the training



                                                     - 7 -

system; and (iii) ensure better labor market performance and employment success for the graduates of the
competency-based curricula as compared with the graduates of the traditional vocational curricula.

The following are some of the key project performance and impact questions that needed to be answered
(according to the studies required to be carried out under Component D before the tenth and last
amendment) by the project at mid-term review and which were insufficiently addressed by the Borrower. Is
CONOCER scheme really owned by entrepreneurs and their workforce, especially those from the private
sector? Is CONOCER an efficient operation? What has been the impact of workers that have certified their
skills in terms of their productivity, wages, career opportunities, advancement and professional mobility?
Are there significant differences in productivity, labor relations and the organizational climate between
firms that have benefited from CONOCER, especially SMEs, and those in similar economic sectors that
have not? What have been the significant differences in job findings, labor market performance and
employment success between trainees and/or students who participated in competency-based programs with
respect to those graduating from the traditional programs? What was the impact of the training provided to
unemployed workers under PROBECAT (currently PAC) and to workers of SMEs under CIMO (currently
PAE) in terms of work opportunities and productivity? Some of these questions are partially addressed in
section 4.2 of this ICR.

The ICR did gather sufficient evidence that the project achieved the following objectives, related tasks and
processes: (a) establishment of a national system of competency standards and of a skills testing and
certification system (CONOCER); (b) implementation of a competency-based education curriculum in
some selected schools belonging to the formal technical training education sub-system; (c) provision of
competency-based learning materials and equipment to participating upper secondary technical schools; (d)
provision of competency-based training to unemployed workers and workers of some SMEs; and (e)
establishment of supportive management information systems.

This ICR flags an inconsistency between the way the project objectives were stated in the Project Definition
of Schedule 2 to the LA and the real ethos of the project. In effect, the project objectives were stated as
"improving the quality of technical education and training system in Mexico so as to meet the critical needs
of the country's productive sector in a flexible manner". Compared to the traditional Bank-financed
operations leading to quality improvement, the project design did not include any of the following
proven-effective activities, which are directly linked to improving the quality of technical education,
including, inter alia: (i) the measurement of learning achievement outcomes (including baseline and project
completion data) and efficiency-related indicators, like promotion, dropout and repetition rates (including
baseline and project completion data); (ii) the pre and in-service teacher and school principal training aimed
at improving the pedagogical practices in the classroom of the participating technical schools; (iii) the
provision of learning inputs; (iv) the development of student orientation, labor practices and placement
mechanisms and strategies; and (iv) the coordination and linkages with the labor market.

It is the strong view of this ICR that the real thrust of this investment as designed was to improve the
pertinence of the upper secondary technical education and training provided in Mexico, to ensure a better
fit with the general and sector-specific competency requirements of the employers (public and private) and
the labor market (formal and non-formal). In short, the project successfully implemented some project
tasks and processes as specified in the project's description and its components, and might have been
considered as marginally satisfactory if judged relative to such a reformulation of the project objectives;
however, its impact in attaining the originally stated project objectives is rated as unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 8 -

This section is based on the information: (i) collected by the Bank during the last supervision mission
carried out in June 2003; (ii) provided by the Borrower's final report submitted to the Bank on April 30,
2004; and (iii) included in the project's file.

With respect to Component A (Establishing a national system of competency standards and of a
skills-testing certification system), the project was successful in establishing the Council for
Normalization and Certification Standards (a Trust known in México as the Fideicomiso de los Sistemas
Normalizado de Competencia Laboral y de Certificacion de Competencia Laboral - CONOCER) for the
development and certification of sector-specific national competency standards. At the time of the June
2003 mission, CONOCER had approved 613 norms for 5 levels of employment in 12 broad sectors of the
economy      (agriculture, mining,    construction,   mechanical/electrical/electronic,   telecommunications,
manufacturing, transportation, sales of goods and services, financial services, health and social protection,
social communication and knowledge development). These 12 broad sectors represent about 25 sub-sectors
of the Mexican economy. Out of this universe of approved norms, 62% were for level 2 of occupational
qualification (corresponding to qualified workers) and 24% for level 3 (corresponding to qualified
technicians). Sector-wide, 27% of the approved norms were in the manufacturing sector, 14% in the sales
of goods and services sector, 14% in the mechanical, electrical and electronic sectors, and 12% in the
agricultural sector.   Out of these approved norms, almost 54% were active (being utilized by the
employers), and the rest, 283 norms were dormant. This lack of norm "usability" by employers is an
unwelcome sign that part of the activities of CONOCER, especially during the early stages of project
implementation, were not demand-driven by interested employers. This is also partially explained by the
very expensive copyrighted strategy used as inputs for the development of the Mexican standards.
Approved norms have a validity of about two years, at which time they need to be revisited, and likely,
revised and updated.

For the definition and approval of these norms, CONOCER established 66 Competency Standardization
Committees (Comités de Normalización) and 10 Sub-committees, which included an ample spectrum of
the sector-specific stakeholders, especially entrepreneurs, experts and, in some cases, representatives of the
workers. To measure and evaluate the attainment by individuals of skill levels specified by the approved
norms, CONOCER accredited 1,413 individuals, public and private sector institutions and enterprises
known as CEAs (Centro de Evaluación Acreditado - CEA). About 46% of the CEAs were accredited
public technical schools participating in Component B, 25% where private firms, 10% public firms, 12%
associations and employer umbrella organizations, 4% were private schools, and one CEA was a workers
union. To certify acquired skill levels specified by the approved norms and previously evaluated by the
CEAs, CONOCER accredited and licensed 32 private and public sector institutions and enterprises known
as OCs (Organismos de Certificación). Unfortunately, all these 32 OCs are located in Mexico City, thus
increasing the already significantly higher, certification costs due to transportation factors. The project
provided grants to OCs and CEAs through CONOCER, for their staff training and technical assistance
needs, to support their start-up activities, to develop testing material and, in case of the OCs only, to help
with their incremental operating costs.

CONOCER granted an equivalent of about 87,442 certificates to approximately 67,438 individuals
through a total of 195,844 competency units over the life of the project. These results surpass the original
targets recorded in the Implementation Letter.         According to preliminary information provided by
CONOCER to the June 2003 mission, the aggregated average unit cost of the entire certification process
for all the 12 sectors of the economy and the five levels of occupational competency, including the
definition, validation and approval of the norm, evaluation and certification, decreased in the period
2000-2002 from MX$1,814.28 to MX$848.74 (53% reduction).                  The Government's subsidy in this
certification process has decreased 28% in this period. In fact, while in 2000, certification fees represented


                                                      - 9 -

only 14% of the entire process (MX$260.94 out of MX$1,814.28), in 2002 the cost-recovery represented
38% of the total process cost (about MX$321.59 out of MX$848.74). Obviously, this preliminary cost
estimates vary by economic sector and the level of occupational competency corresponding to the norm.
Improvements in the efficiency levels of CONOCER emerge from the lessons learned during the early
stages of project implementation cycle that indicated the need to better target CONOCER's efforts to the
second level of occupational competency and to the sectors of the economy where the certification process
was most in-demand. The efforts of CONOCER to simplify and streamline the entire rather complex
certification process, although still in its initial stages, resulted in greater efficiency, especially concerning
the simplifying of the skill evidence portfolios. Given that the average unit cost of certification still exceeds
the average unit cost of a 200 hour training course in Mexico, there is room for continued improvement of
this component efficiency. This also indicates that the current priority CONOCER gives to the certification
process instead of training has to be reversed to make this process even more efficient.

Further strengthening of CONOCER's alliances with the private employers is warranted to ensure a change
of culture among employers regarding the need to train and certify their working force. These efforts
should culminate in private and public employers largely financing the services provided by CONOCER,
which would be a dramatic shift from current public subsidy. The current linkages of CONOCER with the
technical education and training systems need strengthening. Likewise, CONOCER needs to work in better
coordination with the National Institute of Adult Education, which is responsible for setting the basic skill
standards of adult education curriculum.       Also urgently needed is a more rational decentralization of the
OCs in order to bring them closer to potential beneficiaries and decrease certification costs due to mobility.
Furthermore, the ICR perceived that the certification of competencies standards is not fully aligned with the
provider, thus individuals in the process of certification seldom have available to them modular courses
required to achieve the prescribed requisites.

The lengthy process between the definition and approval of a given sector-specific labor competency-based
norm is likely to be out of sync with the rhythms firms follow. By the time a norm is approved it is likely
to be already outdated due to the rapid technological changes occurring in the productive sector. This
explains in part the reason that 46.6% of the norms approved by CONOCER are dormant (unused). The
ICR recommends that when an international norm is available, it ought to be adapted, if possible, to the
Mexican sector-specific economic and productive reality.

Although there is room for further improvement, given that CONOCER is gradually improving its targeting
efforts and internal efficiency, the ICR ranks the implementation of Component A of the project as
satisfactory.

With respect to Component B (Modernizing training programs to increase their flexibility and relevancy)
, the project was successful in establishing a competency-based curriculum in 727 public upper technical
secondary (UTS) schools (about 54.3% of the total universe of 1,339 UTS schools) benefiting 754,424
students during the life of the project. Out of these number of students, only 62,891 (8.3% of the ones
enrolled in the new curriculum), certified their acquired competencies in the framework of Component A.
The number of certified students is extremely small due to the relatively high cost of certification, which is
not subsidized by the Government, and the complexities inherent in assembling the evidence portfolio of
acquired skills.   About 382 UTS schools (28.5% of the universe) were certified by CONOCER as
competency-based evaluation centers.         PMETyC provided competency-based equipment to 392 UTS
schools. The project supported the training of 31,380 teachers and principals of UTS schools and financed
the conversion of 1,096 teaching modules from the old (subject-based) to the new (competency-based)
curriculum including learning material.




                                                        - 10 -

According to the information provided by SEIT during the June 2003 mission, the annual impact of
PMETyC by the number of students benefiting from this investment in each UTS subsystem in 2002 as a
percentage of the total enrollment in that year is very small (except for CONALEP): CBTI with 18,187
students (3.6%); CECATIs and ICATEs with 27,458 students (4.5%); CONALEP with 210,225 students
(100%); CBTA with 2,044 students (1.6%); CETMAR with 489 students (1.9%); and Technical
Universities with 510 students (1%). Adding all the subsystems, only 16% (258,400) of the total number
of students enrolled in 2002 in the UTS subsystems benefited in 2002 from this new competency-based
curriculum.

The results of this component are mixed. Some activities within the Component were considered by the ICR
as satisfactory while others as unsatisfactory. At the end of the following analysis, an aggregate rating is
provided for this component. On the one hand, there is some evidence of installed institutional capacity to
develop and implement a competency-based curriculum in the UTS sub-system. In some participating UTS
schools there is clear articulation with the regional private and productive sectors which demand
competency-based training services from these schools for their employees.             In other schools, this
articulation is very weak at best, and demand for their training services by the regional productive sector,
almost nonexistent. In those UTS schools where the articulation with the regional productive sector is
working well, the supply of competency-based training provided by these UTS schools to interested
regional firms is limited mainly due to the following reason. Public UTS schools are forbidden by Law to
provide invoices for the services provided, and thus they cannot charge the real cost for these services to
interested firms demanding competency-based training for their workers. As private employers require an
invoice from these UTS schools for taxation rebate purposes, interested firms tend to send only a token of
their workers to receive competency-based training from qualified UTS schools, and a vicious cycle is
created. Firms will limit the demand for training, and UTS schools, functioning on an approved public
budget, will also limit the supply of training they provide. To eliminate this vicious cycle, some UTS
schools offering competency-based training have adopted the "Cooperative" legal and fiscal arrangement,
where invoices can be provided and real costs be charged, including a small profit. The issue at hand is
that only a few of the 727 UTS schools have adopted this "Cooperative" scheme (like the Centros de
Adiestramiento y Servicios Tecnológicos (CAST) of CONALEP).

Furthermore, in the UTS schools where both curriculums, the competency-based as well as the traditional
subject-based, are simultaneously being offered, several Bank supervision mission as well as the June 2003
mission detected unclear situations concerning the use of equipment, teacher training and training material,
due, in part, to the lack of a clear strategy for the generalization of the competency-based curriculum in the
given school.

The few tracer studies done for CONALEP and the Technical Universities show that graduates from this
new curriculum see their likelihood for employment is slightly increased. Unfortunately, no tracer studies
were conducted for the other UTS sub-systems to ascertain the advantages and disadvantages of the
modular competency-based curriculum over the traditional subject-based curriculum with respect of the
job-related performance for graduates of each UTS modality. The lack of these studies did not allow the
June 2003 mission to assess, for example: (i) the time it takes graduates from the traditional vocational and
competency-based modality in UTS sub-system to find a job; (ii) the percentage of graduates from each
modality that find a job related to their training within 6 months after graduation; (iii) appropriateness of
the job acquired by type of graduate; (iv) differences in initial salaries between the two sets of graduates;
(v) difference in job-related performance as seen by the employer; (vi) characteristics of the short-to
medium-term professional ladder for each kind of graduate during their employment tenure; and (vii) the
percentage of graduates that continue further education.




                                                       - 11 -

On the positive side, this Component has developed very good competency-based training materials for
SEIT's UTS subsystem, totaling about 183 didactic packages and about 603 assorted learning materials.

For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR ranks the implementation of Component B corresponding
to CONALEP, the Technological Universities and of some CBTI, CBTA and CECATI schools (those
showing an effective linkage with the productive sector) as satisfactory, while for the rest of the SEIT
subsystem as unsatisfactory. As a whole, in that only about 16 percent of the student were participating in
the new curriculum, the ICR ranks this component as unsatisfactory.

According to the project-related closing report provided by STPS to the June 2003 mission, Component C
(Stimulating demand for competency-based training and certification to promote private sector initiative
and participation in training design and implementation) financed the training of about 80,600
unemployed or sub-employed workers during the 1995-2003 period through the Sistema de Capacitación
para el Trabajo (SICAT) which replaced PROBECAT. This training was provided through about 664
courses based on 60 sector-specific approved labor competency norms by CONOCER. Out of this
universe of unemployed or sub-employed workers benefiting from the project, a total of 34,077 certificates
of acquired skills against approved norms were granted by the project. In addition, the program provided
training to 1,215 instructors.     During the 1995-2003 period, PMETyC financed the training of an
additional 66,832 workers of approximately 13,609 firms, mostly SMEs, through the Programa de Apoyo
a la Capacitación (PAC), before CIMO. Of this number of trained workers, 10,123 were certified based on
approved norms. The program provided training to 2,300 instructors.

A survey study conducted by STPS (whose methodology and findings could not be assessed by the June
2003 mission) with a sample of almost 1,400 workers and about 100 firms who benefited from this project
Component indicated that out of 14,222 unemployed or sub-employed workers trained by PMETyC during
2002, 74% (10,520) found a job after completing their training. However, the study did not control for
other factors, thus it is not possible to ascertain if the finding of a job was directly correlated with the
competency-based training provided, or due to other factors. Furthermore, in the field visits carried out
during the last two supervision missions it was clear that: (i) for many participants the incentive was the
stipend provided by PROBECAT/SICAT rather than the training course itself; and (ii) a significant
number of graduates of this training program financed by the project were out of a job at the time of the
supervision missions. The ICR therefore does not have sufficient clarity to determine the impact and
appropriateness of the training provided to the unemployed and sub-employed. The survey found that the
interviewed employers perceived turnover of trained workers, as well as absenteeism, decreased. Two
other positive impacts emerged from this Component. Firstly, STPS modified its policy to finance only
sector-specific labor competency-based training with approved norms by CONOCER and disregard in the
future the financing of the traditional training. Finally, employers are absorbing a larger share of the cost
of training, evaluation, and certification, although this share is still very small.

On the other hand, the June 2003 mission identified several important remaining challenges.            First,
financing the certification phase of this process represents a big bottleneck, and thus a relevant hurdle for
certifying a larger number of workers. Second, firms that value the competency-based training, by and
large, are willing to have their workers evaluated and trained, but decline to fully absorb the cost of
certification. Third, some employers fear that certified workers may demand higher wages. Fourth, the
cost of certification also represents a financial burden for the employees, and with minor exceptions, they
also refuse to assume the burden. Fifth, some workers do not see the immediate benefit of the certification
but rather they perceive it as a limitation to find a job. Finally, the Government declines to subsidize the
certification process.




                                                      - 12 -

The above-mentioned STPS report is consistent with the June 2003 mission perception that the impact of
this Component in the universe of workers and firms in Mexico is still very small. Out of a universe of
about 2.8 million registered firms in Mexico, of which 95.7% are SMEs (about 2.68 million), the project
benefited a little less than 14,000 (about half of one percent) during the entire life of the project.

The STPS report points to the limited number of CEAs and OCs (the latter ones, all located in Mexico
City), as contributing to the limited impact of this Component. The report identifies as factors affecting the
timely implementation of this Component: (i) the delays in releasing authorized budget resources; and (ii)
the frequent budget cuts, especially in 2000 and 2001. According to the budgetary figures released by this
report, on the average, about 60.3% of the authorized budget was actually spent during the 1995-2003
period, ranging from a low 25.5% in 1995 to a high rate of 83.4% in 2002. The authorized budget for this
Component registered a significant increase in nominal terms of 31.6% per year in the period 1995-2001,
and a sharp decrease of almost 55% in 2001, a year that almost paralyzed the activities of this Component.


The STPS report confirms, moreover, the observation made above that the asynchronous rhythms of
CONOCER in establishing, validating and approving a norm and the rhythms required at the level of the
firm, result in norms being outdated by the time they are approved.

For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR ranks the implementation of Component C as satisfactory
with respect to CIMO/PAC, and unsatisfactory, with respect to PAE/PROBECAT. As a whole, the ICR
rates this Component as unsatisfactory.

With respect to Component D (Project administration, information systems and studies), PMETyC
financed a total of 44 studies. Of these, the ICR highlights the following studies: (i) an external mid-term
review of PMETyC carried out by a qualified Spanish consulting firm (CIDEC); (ii) a diagnosis of training
demand; (iii) a structure analysis of the sectors of the Mexican economy sectors as related to their skill
requirements; (iv) an occupational analysis; (v) a costs and benefits of PMETyC; (vi) a study of the
possibilities of self-financing the OCs; and (vii) tracer studies of graduates of the competency-based
curriculum of CONALEP and the Technological Universities.               In addition, PMETyC financed the
development and implementation of the following management information systems: (a) the supply of
competency-based technical education (Sistema de Información de la Oferta Educativa Basada en
Competencias - SINOE) which includes nine management information sub-systems; (b) CONOCER's
Information System (Sistema Integral de Información - SIII); (c) Occupational Catalogue (Sistema del
Catálogo Nacional de Ocupaciones - SICNO); (d) a Job-search information system (Sistema de
Informacion de Apoyo al Empleo - SISPAE, formerly known as the Sistema del Servicio Nacional de
Empleo - SISNE); and (f) a Training Support Management and Budget Information System (Sistema
Administrativo Presupuestario del Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación - SAPAC). At the time of the
ICR, these management information systems were at different levels of implementation (going from fine
tuning the design to implementation readiness, and fully implemented).

Despite the above-mentioned achievements, the Project should have included provision for the carrying out
of key studies to assess the achievement of the developmental objectives of this investment.              These
output-oriented studies include: (i) enrollment trends in technical education and the demand for training in
specific areas; (ii) the institutional changes of the technical sub-systems that adopted competency-based
curriculum; (iii) the impact of the PROBECAT and CIMO activities financed by PMETyC; (iv)
possibilities of self-financing of CEAs; (v) evaluation of the certification incentives; and (vi) tracer studies
of graduates of the UTS sub-system that adopted a competency-based curriculum, apart from CONALEP
and the Technological Universities that did carry out such studies. In particular, this last proposed study


                                                     - 13 -

would have provided valuable information concerning the differences in labor market performance and
employment success between trainees who participated in traditional vocational and competency-based
courses. As mentioned-before, the Bank agreed in September 4, 2002, under the context of the last (tenth)
amendment, to exclude these studies from the project.

Finally, as part of Component D, a PAU and a Project Steering Committee were established. As mentioned
in Section 7.1 of the ICR, the Project Steering Committee was not effective in addressing key risks
presented during project execution, such, as inter alia: (i) significant delays in project implementation
emerging mainly from the project's complex design; (ii) the inadequate private sector involvement; and (iii)
the resistance of different interest groups.    The PAU was given an increasingly important role in
coordination during the letter years of implementation, beyond its original administrative functions.
However, it was not successful in overcoming weaknesses in design and preparation, and the lack of
ownership of the participating agencies, especially STPS and SEIT.

For the above reasons, the ICR ranks the implementation of Component D, as unsatisfactory.

Based on the above observations and judgements for the various components, the ICR rates the outcome of
this investment as unsatisfactory in meeting the stated project objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Three institutional development impacts are derived from PMETyC.            Firstly, a National System of
Competency Standards operated by CONOCER was developed and is fully implemented. CONOCER
operates, through a network of validly licensed private sector institutions or enterprises, a national testing
and certification program to measure and certify the attainment by individuals of the skill levels according
to approved norms. However, as further explained in Section 6.1 of the ICR, the Legal Status and
composition of the Trust that created CONOCER under this project will be changed by the Mexican
Government, somehow affecting the institutional capacity that has been developed.

Secondly, institutional capacity was developed in part of the UTS sub-system to define and implement a
competency-based curriculum.       CONALEP (with 262 schools, 212,000 students and about 13,900
professors) was the only sub-system in the UTS system to have changed completely its curriculum to a
modular competency-based one. However, as indicated in Section 4.2 of the ICR, the competency-based
curriculum capacity developed under in the UTS system benefits a small percentage of the UTS universe.

Thirdly, and as mentioned before, STPS modified its policy to finance only sector-specific labor
competency-based training with approved norms. This institutional development impact generated by
PMETyC, reverses the traditional approach of STPS to finance any training, including non-competency
based one. However, as also indicated in Section 4.2 of the ICR, the number of SMEs and/or unemployed
workers that have benefited from this project is extremely low, representing at best about half of one
percent of the potential universe.



                                                   - 14 -

Finally, the ICR could not find analytical evidence of any relevant impact on: (i) the modernization of the
UTS subsystem, especially the CECATIS; (ii) the strengthening of coordination mechanisms among
training institutions; and (iii) the appropriation by a significant number of firms, especially SMEs, of the
competency-based standards and certification processes as mean of hiring and promotion of workers.

For all of the above reasons, the ICR of the view that the institutional development impact of this project
was modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

One major factor outside the control of the Mexican Government had an adverse effect on project
implementation - lack of confidence among foreign investors in continue to invest in Mexico during 1994.
Foreign investors started, by and large, cashing in their profits and pulling out their investments from
Mexico once their dollar-backed investment instruments came to maturity.           These short-term market
pressures where addressed by the Mexican Government using available reserves in the Bank of Mexico.
However this strategy proved not to be sustainable to the point that when President's Zedillo administration
took over on December 1, 2004 (barely four weeks after Board approval of PMETyC), the reserves were at
an historic low, equivalent to less than one month of imports. The Zedillo Government was forced to float
the peso in mid-December 1994 (two weeks after its inauguration), which promptly sank and nearly took
the entire Mexican banking system down with it. The Mexican peso suffered a 200% devaluation (from 3
Mexican pesos to 9 per dollar in early 1995). This crisis led to a delay of three months in the signing of the
Loan after Board approval, as well as a delay of 10 months in its effectiveness. Finally, the Mexican
Government requested on July 14, 1995 a partial cancellation of the Loan on the amount US$30 million (or
11% of the total Loan Amount), reducing the Loan to US$235 million. This cancellation, seen by the
Mexican Government as a currency adjustment to a banking transaction, was applied to practically the
entire Mexican portfolio financed by both the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The ICR identified two major factors under the government's control which severely affected the speed of
implementation. The first one concerns the consistent delays in authorizations to spend the approved
project-related budget.    These delays ranged from five to about seven months after the start of the
corresponding fiscal year, thus affecting the entire implementation cycle. The second factor corresponds to
the budget cuts and restrictions, including those for PMETyC, imposed over the course of several fiscal
years of project life. These two factors impeded the PAU, and other implementing entities, especially
STPS, from effectively carrying out its approved work-plan and budget.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Unfortunately, the expansion of PAU functions beyond the original design as an administrative unit toward
a coordinating role was largely unsuccessful in enhancing the level of ownership by SEIT and STPS. It did
have some success in promoting the competency-based approach in civil service, public enterprises and
municipal governments, but these activities were outside the intent of the operation which was to focus on
the private sector.

5.4 Costs and financing:




                                                     - 15 -

The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$412 million equivalent, of which US$265 were
from the Bank loan (64%), US$118.3 million equivalent (29%), from counterpart funds, and US$28.7
million (7%) was to be the expected contribution of private enterprises and trainees participating in the
in-service training and skill certification, and benefiting from PAC (formerly CIMO) and technical
assistance under the project. For the reasons fully explained in section 3.4 of the ICR, there were three
partial cancellations to the Loan amounting to US$83.69 million (32% of the original amount contracted).
These three partial cancellations decreased the total of the contracted Loan to US$181,311,948.61.

The project disbursed and documented about US$259 million, of which almost US$165 million were from
the Loan and US$94 million were from counterpart funding and contributions from private enterprises and
trainees (67.2% of the total counterpart funding estimated at appraisal).               The Borrower requested
cancellation of the remaining undisbursed Loan amount of US$18.32 million (US$18.04 million cancelled
on August 26, 2003 and US$0.28 million on November 13, 2003).

The underspending is explained mainly by: (i) the three cancellations described before; (ii) the significant
yearly delays in releasing the authorized project budget; (iii) the several budget cuts and restrictions that
took place over the life of the project; and (iv) the complexity of the project design that significantly
delayed its full implementation by about three years after Loan approval by the Board. It took the
Borrower about two years after Loan effectiveness to get the rather complex project design off the ground,
and some project activities, such as those in Component C, exhibited more severe project implementation
difficulties, resulting in significant shortfalls in executing the totality of the authorized budget.

Based on information provided by the Borrower during the last supervision mission of June 2003,
PMETyC as a whole registered an average 81.2% effective expenditure capacity out of the authorized
budgets during this period. The year 2000 was particular effective with 92% expenditure capacity rate
from the authorized budget, while 1995, 2001 and 2002 registered an expenditure capacity below the 80%
mark.    Component A consistently displayed an effective pattern of about 100% expenditure of its
authorized yearly budget during the entire project cycle. Component C, on the other hand, experienced a
very ineffective expenditure capacity performance, ranging from a low 34% in 1995 and 44% in 1996 to a
high of 90% in 2000, and averaging 54% overall. Component B presented a reasonably average capacity
expenditure pattern of 85% during the life of the project.

The already complex project design was made more complex by having agreed during negotiations to 20
different categories of expenditures (which appear in Schedule I to the LA). This cumbersome arrangement
derived from having the traditional categories of expenditures of goods and equipment, training materials,
consultant services, incremental operating costs, stipends, certification support, training and technical
assistance, civil works and publicity, broken down by different components of the project as defined in
Schedule 2 to the LA. Some of these categories, like technical assistance to SMEs were reduced to zero
during the fourth amendment to the LA in May 1999. Of the remaining undisbursed US$18.044 million of
the Loan, about 38.3% corresponds to the training category that was supposed to be provided under
Component B and C, 18% to goods that were mostly to be acquired for Component B, 27% to consulting
services for Component D (studies that were never carried out) and 10% to incremental operating costs
under Component A.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The ICR rates the sustainability of what has been achieved to date by this investment as likely on balance,



                                                        - 16 -

but sustaining and expanding on its activities will hinge to some degree on the nature of support from the
Inter-Amercian Development Bank (IDB).

It is the ICR's impression that CONOCER (Component A) will be financially, technically and
institutionally sustained by the Mexican Government. At the request of the SHCP, the Legal Status of the
Trust that created CONOCER will be changed from a Fideicomiso Público No Sectorizado to a
Fideicomisado Sectorizado within either the Ministry of Education (SEP) or the National Council on
Lifelong Learning and Training (Consejo Nacional de Educación para la Vida y el Trabajo - CONEVyT).
This proposed change will remove some of the managerial and policy autonomy granted to CONOCER
during the life of the project by its Board, making it subject to more policy and management control by
SEP or CONEVyT in the future. This proposed legal change will further reduce the participation of STPS,
and thus, to a large extent, from the private employers. If this change occurs, the original philosophy
supported by the project as well as the international experience will be totally disregarded, making the
sustainability weaker.

CONOCER financial self-sufficiency strategy was restricted to the Certification Bodies.                These
Certification Bodies, which are private entities, were subsidized by the project until mid-project
implementation cycle, at which point the subsidy was suspended.            The Certification Bodies, despite
implementing several strategies to keep them financially afloat (like selling consulting services and seeking
economies of scale by certifying norms and charging for the service) did not achieve full self-financial
subsidy. This lack of financial self-sufficiency continues to be an issue, hindering a more effective
completion of the entire certification cycle among workers benefiting from this process. On the other hand,
the production and updating of norms by CONOCER will continue to be subsidized by public funds
allocated to the CONOCER Trust.

With respect to Component B, it is the ICR team's view that only the CONALEP sub-system will continue
using the modular competency-based curriculum that was developed under the project and adopted in all of
its schools during the life of the project.     With respect to the other technical education subsystems
coordinated by SEIT, the ICR team believes that this new curricular scheme, tested in a fewer number of
schools, will not be sustained in the long-run. With the closing of this Loan, the likelihood of SEIT
continuing to expand and strengthen the competency-based curricular scheme in other UTS sub-system
schools, exception made of the CONALEP subsystem, is very low. This prospect could change if the
proposed financing of a sequel of PMETyC by the IDB materializes that addresses the limitations pointed
out in the ICR (still under discussion in late October 2004).

With respect to Component C, STPS will continue providing training and support developed under
PMETyC by means of a new mega three phase APL from IDB approved and signed in 2002 (each phase is
a three year loan of US$600 million). This situation may not really address the issue of sustainability, but
instead postpones the question until the new IDB Loan comes to a closure. From that point of view, the
assessment of the ICR is that the Bank loan did not ensure the sustainability of this component at the
closing of the Loan.

In the absence of an evaluation culture it seems unlikely that the impact evaluation studies that the
Borrower were originally supposed to carry out (until the last amendment to the LA changed that
agreement), will be undertaken after the closing of the Loan.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project design ensured that mainstream institutions implemented project activities of the three main



                                                    - 17 -

components of PMETyC from the outset. In the case of Component A, the Trust CONOCER was
established by the Mexican Government. Component B was mainly implemented by SEIT along all the
participating UTS sub-systems. Component B also included other implementing agencies outside SEIT,
like SEP's Dirección General del Bachillerato and the Colegio de la Frontera Sur. Component C was
implemented by the STPS. The only parallel unit created by PMETyC, was the PAU, which in addition of
coordinating the activities with the other implementing agencies, was mainly responsible for the
implementation of Component D. Except for CONOCER, CONALEP and to some degree, STPS, no
managerial capacity was built to continue the envisaged changes in the overall system.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The choice of a task team leader (newly arrived at the Bank, and thus, inexperienced in Bank policies and
procedures, as well as in technical-vocational education and competency-based curriculum) underpinned
many of the shortcoming in project preparation and during the early stages of implementation, especially
when both the Borrower and Bank management were finding their way into uncharted territories. Prior to
PMETyC, the Bank had no experience in financing: (i) the establishment of a competency framework for
the labor market; nor (ii) the development of a competency-based curriculum in the UTS subsystem from
which pertinent lessons could be derived. As a consequence, some mistakes were introduced from the
outset in the project design.

As mentioned in section 4.1 of the ICR, the way the project objectives were described in the Project
Description in Schedule 2 to the LA and the real thrust of the project were completely different. The
project aims at improving the relevancy and pertinence of upper secondary technical education and training
under the framework of sector-specific labor competency-based standards.          As already mentioned in
Section 4.1 of the ICR, the project does not include in its design any proven-effective intervention to
improve the quality of technical education and training systems in Mexico to meet the critical needs of the
country's productive sector in a flexible manner. The fact of changing a traditional vocational curriculum
into a competency-based one does not constitute, by itself, a strategy to improve the quality of learning. At
best, it may improve the pertinence (or relevancy) of technical education and training. The ICR also rates
as unsatisfactory the performance of the internal peer reviewing process that failed to flag this
inconsistency.

The design was too complex, ambitious, and crossed over several sectors (Education and Labor). It was
contrary to the prevailing Bank policy recommendations at that time concerning ways to improve effective
implementation of future projects (Wapenhans Report of October 2, 1992). The economic sectors and
levels of occupational skills to be targeted with a competency standards framework were unfocused. The
rather complex design took about three years after Board approval (and two years after effectiveness) to get
off the ground.

As mentioned in Section 3.5 of the ICR, if current Quality at Entry Criteria would be applied to the design,
the preparation process also lacked several key assessment tools, including: (i) a social assessment; (ii) an
economic assessment; (iii) a procurement capacity assessment and first-year procurement plan; and (iv) an
institutional capacity assessment.    The Bank appraisal team flagged in the SAR the following three
potential risks: (i) complexity leading to poor implementation; (ii) inadequate private sector involvement;
and (iii) resistance of interest groups due to poor understanding of the project. These risks proved to take
place during implementation, yet there was an inadequate response by both the Borrower (through the



                                                    - 18 -

project's Steering Committee) and the Bank in effectively addressing them, especially until early 1998. In
addition, the performance indicators (which appear in Annex 1) agreed upon with the Borrower about two
years after Loan effectiveness are mostly input, and in some cases, process indicators. No output and
impact indicators were included in the design.

Schedule 1 included too many categories of expenditure (20), some of which were never utilized throughout
the entire eight-year life of the project, indicating that at the time of preparation and appraisal, ambitious
expectations prevailed over more realistic assessments of the implementation capacity of the Borrower,
especially given Mexico's deteriorating economy. The project definition in Schedule 2 of the LA is too
splintered making the operational supervision of this investment difficult. The SAR presented the proposed
project in a more aggregated fashion, but it underwent unnecessary splintering during negotiations as it was
translated into legal language. The costing of the project design was carried out without using the
prescribed Bank rules and procedures in an appropriate fashion, with the result, for example, of category
1a in Schedule 1 to the LA being estimated at US$200,000 and immediately being increased to US$2.5
million during project implementation.

For all of the above reasons, the ICR team grants an unsatisfactory rating to the Bank performance during
the lending process.

7.2 Supervision:

A total of 23 PSRs are included in SAP, of which 13 indicate actual field supervision missions carried out
between Loan effectiveness in August 1995 to the closing of the Loan in June 2003. Reviewing the project
files, there is evidence of some missions (like the one in June 10, 1997 and another one in July 27-31, 1998)
for which no PSR was prepared and archived. The number of recorded field missions fall short of the 16
required, given that the project lasted eight years, and that at least one supervision mission was supposed to
be carried every six months. The Bank did not carry out any supervision mission during 1996, a critical
year where the project was almost paralyzed by lack of disbursements, beyond the opening of the Special
Account with US$12 million. Only one supervision took place in 1997, a year when the project started
getting off the ground. A total of five task managers were involved in supervising this investment: (i) the
first one was also responsible for the lending process in its entirety from 1995 to the mid-1997; (ii) the
second one led only one supervision mission in February 1998; (iii) the third one led from May 1998 to
September 2001; (iv) the fourth one from September 2001 to May 2002; and (iv) the last one from
mid-2002 to the closing of the loan in June 30, 2003.

The ICR considers some of the ratings assigned in the PSRs, especially the ones for 1995 and 1997,
unrealistic. Satisfactory ratings were provided in implementation progress and developmental objectives in
a context of no implementation, limited Loan disbursements and no available evidence of progress towards
achieving the developmental objectives. The supervision missions were also characterized by a tacit
agreement not to question seriously the continuous request of the Borrower to expand the list of executing
agencies interested in participating in Component B.           For example, the Dirección de Colegios de
Bachilleres, one of the last executing agencies to be included in the tenth amendment to the LA, indicated a
policy decision to introduce a modular competency-based curricular reform in the Scientific-Humanistic in
the first four semesters of the upper secondary sub-system (Colegios de Bachilleres), but this never
materialized. The Bank's no-objection to the huge expansion in scope during project implementation, void
of any analytical or operational evidence to justify it, was, in the view of the ICR, a mistake.

Components A and B are rated highly satisfactory in the PSR of February 1998, despite: (i) the obvious
operating inefficiency of CONOCER, displayed by a certification cost of about 5 times the average cost of



                                                      - 19 -

a 200-hour training module and a record that left about 50% of its approved norms dormant; and (ii) a lack
of impact evaluation evidence concerning the job performance of graduates of the competency-based
curriculum of Component B as compared with the graduates from the traditional curriculum. Counterpart
funding was rated consistently satisfactory despite the significant delays in releasing the authorized budget
for the project every year in a timely fashion. The first flag of the project being a problem project was
raised in February 1998, more than 30 months after effectiveness.

Since mid-1998, project supervision was characterized by a serious effort to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of project implementation. Several actions were taken, many of them as a result of the
findings of the mid-term review carried out on September 1998, such as: (i) the project was restructured to
reflect a more viable implementation reality; (ii) a three-year extension was granted to the Loan closing
date (to June 30, 2003); and (iii) talks were initiated to explore a follow-up operation (PMETyC II).
Project files shows that for the first time in the implementation cycle of this project, the Aide-Memoires
were comprehensive in detailing real achievements and pointing at the relevant issues in need of prompt
attention by the Borrower and the Bank. Nevertheless, the ICR is of the view that it was a Bank mistake
to agree to the cancellation in 2002 of some relevant impact evaluation studies included in the tenth
amendment. This view is strongly influenced by the current Bank policy to be more output-oriented in its
current and forthcoming investments, as opposed to the more input and process-oriented projects of the
past. This latter orientation by the various Bank teams during supervision underlies the satisfactory ratings
given to development objectives during most of the implementation period and, hence, the disconnect with
the ICR rating of unsatisfactory. On this basis, the overall supervision performance of the Bank would
have to be rated as unsatisfactory, as well.

Finally, with the objective to guide the preparation of a possible follow-up project, the Bank conducted a
series of studies financed by a PHRD Grant (TF-027790). To agree on the terms of reference with the
Borrower and to launch these studies, the Bank carried out two missions in July 1999 and 2001. A
thorough report entitled Mexico: Technical Education and Training: Issues and Options, in two volumes,
was prepared and financed by this PHRD Grant. The preliminary version was distributed for review in
mid-2003. This valuable report provides the only evidence (though limited and not conclusive) of: (i) the
job-performance of a sample of graduates of the competency-based curriculum implemented by CONALEP
and the Technical Universities that participated in PMETyC; and (ii) the impact of components A and C,
based on a survey of a sample of 600 workers in the sectors of forestry (in the State of Durango), garments
(in the State of Hidalgo) and tourism (in the metropolitan area of Mexico City) and managers of 30 firms,
of which only 8 (out of 30) responded to the survey.

Although the Report was based on an insufficient number of observations, its findings were valuable in the
Bank's decision-making process. Based on the findings, compounded with a lack of more solid evidence of
the project's impact that should have been provided by the Borrower, a project implementation history full
of shortcomings, and little willingness demonstrated by the coordinating unit to address the limitations of
the ongoing operation, the Bank decided that it could add little value in supporting a follow-up operation
and chose instead to support other priority areas in the education sector in Mexico more consistent with the
direction of the new CAS (Report No. 28141-ME, March 18, 2004) focusing more directly on poverty
alleviation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above observations, the ICR team rates the overall Bank performance as unsatisfactory.

Borrower



                                                    - 20 -

7.4 Preparation:

Lacking experience in undertaking a project of this nature and appropriate guidance, the Mexican
Government conducted an extensive survey of ongoing worldwide competency standards experiences
available in the early nineties including: (i) the United Kingdom (UK) Qualifications and Curriculum
Authority (QCA), the UK Sector Skills Development Agency (SSDA) and the UK National Reference
Point for Vocational Qualifications; (ii) the Scottish Qualification Authority (SQA); (iii) the Australian
National Training Authority (ANTA), the Australian Qualification Framework (AQF) and the National
Centre for Vocational Education Research (NCVER); (iv) the New Zealand Qualifications Authority
(NZQA) and the Skills New Zealand Competency Agency; and (v) the Spanish Instituto Nacional de
Cualificaciones (NCUAL), the Instituto Nacional del Empleo and the Fundación Tripartita para la
Formación y el Empleo. The Mexican Government decided to adapt the UK/Scottish model for PMETyC,
although neither the project files, nor the SAR, include the reasons as to why this option was chosen.

Even though the original sketching of PMETyC in early 1993 was championed by SEIT which saw it as an
opportunity to invest significantly in enhancing the quality and relevance of upper secondary technical
education as well as updating the laboratories and workshops of the public technical school system, once
the relationship with the Bank was formalized in the identification mission in mid-1993, SEP's
Undersecretariat for Educational Planning and Coordination (UEPC) took full control of the preparation,
and eventually, of the implementation of this project. UEPC's view of the proposed investment, different to
SEIT's, was to adapt the UK/Scottish competency-based model to the Mexican case, assuming that by
converting the traditional vocational curriculum into a modular competency-based one, the quality, as well
as the relevancy, of technical education would improve. This change of view diminished SEIT ownership
and they were never effectively brought back into the operation.

Overall, however, the ICR team is of the view that many of the shortcomings that occurred during the
lending process were generated more from the Bank's team inexperience, inappropriate decisions and loose
monitoring, than from the Borrower, although they did have some internal conflicts as suggested above.
Thus the ICR team ranks the Borrower's preparation performance as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Several issues can be highlighted regarding the Government's implementation performance. First, as
mentioned elsewhere in the ICR report, every year of the implementation cycle, the timely release of the
authorized project-related budget was significantly delayed, causing a shortfall in the achievement of
physical and financial targets. These delays were accompanied several times by budget reductions and
expenditure restrictions. Secondly, as mentioned in section 6.1 of the ICR report, the new administration
decided to change the legal status and composition of CONOCER, to which the Bank strongly objected,
although no actions on this were forthcoming during the operation of the project. It is worth mentioning
that the Bank unsuccessfully tried several times to open a discussion with the Mexican Government on
improving the functioning of CONOCER and its eventual legal changes.
For all of the above-mentioned observations, the ICR team ranks the Government implementation
performance as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

PMETyC had several implementing agencies. The ICR team ranks as satisfactory the implementation
performance of CONOCER (the implementing agency for Component A) and of CONALEP (one of
several executing agencies of Component B). In the former case, the ranking is based on the fact that



                                                     - 21 -

CONOCER has been improving its efficiency and targeting, and as explained in section 5.4 of this report,
it has had a consistent record of a high expenditure rate of its authorized budget and release of funds. In
the latter case, CONALEP was one of the few executing agencies that supported the expansion of the
modular competency-based curriculum to the totality of its enrollment based on comprehensive tracer
studies on the job-performance of its graduates. CONALEP also registered a high expenditure rate of its
authorized budget and release of funds.

The implementation performance of other agencies involved in Component B, most of them included in the
UTS subsystem coordinated by SEIT, is mixed, ranging from satisfactory to unsatisfactory.               The
satisfactory rating goes to those UTS schools that achieved a real articulation with the regional productive
sectors that demanded competency-based training services from these schools for their employees. The
unsatisfactory rating goes to those schools that participated in PMETyC disconnected from the regional
labor market that were supposed to be involved with.

The implementation performance of STPS in charge of Component C is ranked as unsatisfactory, mainly
because the expenditure capacity performance averaged 54% during the entire life of the project, which is
very ineffective.

With respect to Component D, and the general coordination of PMETyC, PAU's performance during initial
years of implementation is considered adequate, despite the slow implementation of PMETyC as a whole
(mostly due to a very complex design that took significant amount of time to get off the ground).
Subsequently, however, during the latter years of implementation its coordination efforts were unsuccessful
and it took on additional activities outside the scope of the operation; moreover its inability to undertake
needed tracer studies undermined the ability to reach empirically-based conclusions regarding the impact of
the program, and the overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

Finally, an in-depth random procurement review was carried out in May 2003. This review included a
random sample of 10% of all the contracts for goods, services and civil works undertaken in 2001 and
2002 from all the project executing entities, amounting to 73 contracts. This review concluded that the
Borrower followed the Bank guidelines and procedures in a satisfactory manner. A comprehensive report,
with some minor recommendation, was prepared for the Borrower and Bank management and filed in
IRIS3.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Even though several components and the procurement procedures were satisfactory, the consistent delays in
releasing authorized project-related budget funds, the fact that close to 50% of the approved norms by
CONOCER are dormant after project completion, the inefficient implementation displayed by and large in
Component C, the lack of effective articulation of many UTS schools participating in PMETyC with their
respective regional productive sector, and unsuccessful coordination efforts leads the ICR team to rank the
Borrower's overall performance as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


With respect to the lending process

(a)     Experienced preparation teams are likely to generate better designed projects. Unexperienced
Bank and Borrower preparation teams defining an innovative project in uncharted territory involving two



                                                   - 22 -

Ministries (Education and Labor) led to a very complex design that took over three years after Loan
effectiveness to get off the ground.

(b)      Ensure the ownership of all participating stakeholders. PMETyC suffered from the lack of
clear ownership by key stakeholders like SEIT (at the outset of project preparation), and STPS (with the
new administration), significantly undermining project implementation effectiveness and efficiency.

(c)      Align investment timing with the political calendar. Investments that cross over different sectors
as well as different elected administrations run the risk of disenfranchisement by the incoming
administration in some of the participating sectors. An adaptive lending program is a more appropriate
Bank lending instrument in this case, ensuring that the benchmarking separating the different phases of the
APL are aligned with the political timing.

With respect to the supervision process

(d)      Willingness and ability to build up and learn from experience. Successful projects are built on
the foundation of previous, smaller scale interventions, slowly scaled up by intensive examination of "what
worked" and "what didn't work and why". This type of reflective and flexible approach was, by and large,
resisted.

(e)      Ensure effective supervision. Effective supervisions, looking at both the substantive parts of the
project as well as the fiduciary and governance aspects of implementation, are key instruments to
continually improve the efficiency and effectiveness of project implementation. They also contribute to
building a constructive and solid professional relationship between the client and the Bank.

With respect to Component A (Establishing a national system of competency standards and of a skills
testing and certification system - CONOCER)

(f)      Demand-driven and targeted approaches increase efficiency. The early stages of CONOCER
(up to and including 2001) where highly inefficient and costly as a result of its supply-driven and
untargeted approach, including too many sectors of the economy and five levels of occupational
competency. As a consequence, 47% of the approved norms in the life of CONOCER remained dormant.
Once CONOCER responded better to the demands from the employers and targeted its efforts to the lower
two levels of occupational competency (qualified worker and technician), the efficiency and ownership of
stakeholders greatly improved.

(g)      Simplify processes to increase efficiency. The efforts of CONOCER to simplify and streamline
the entire rather complex certification process (from the definition and validation of the norm to
certification, including evaluation and training), are paying dividends in terms of increased efficiency,
especially concerning the guidelines for the gathering of skill-evidence portfolios. This recommended
simplification will also address the issue of the out-of-sync rhythms between a rather lengthy process
including the definition and approval of a given sector-specific labor competency-based norm, and the
requirements of the firms.

(h)      Training should rank higher in priority than certification. The average unit cost of certification
by CONOCER largely exceeds the average unit cost of a 200-hour training course in México, indicating
that the current priority granted by CONOCER to certification over training needs to be reversed in order
to make this process more efficient.



                                                     - 23 -

(i)     Decentralize the certification of acquired skills. The average certification cost will decrease as a
function of decentralizing the 32 licensed certification units, currently all located in Mexico City.

(j)     Strengthen alliances with the private sector to increase CONOCER's stakeholder ownership.
CONOCER needs to strengthen further its alliances with private sector employers to ensure a change of
culture among these employers regarding the need to train and certify their working force, with the goal of
gradually transferring the currently public subsidized cost of this process to private and public employers.

(k)     Adapt international norms when possible. Adapting international norms to the Mexican context
(when possible and applicable) instead of reinventing them will decrease costs.

With respect to Component B (Modernizing training programs to increase their flexibility and
relevancy) and Component C (Stimulating demand for competency-based training and certification to
promote private sector initiative and participation in training design and implementation)

(l)     Certification is the bottleneck. As long as the issue of who pays for the certification of students
enrolled in the competency-based curriculum and/or workers being trained, is not addressed satisfactorily,
the number of certified students and/or trained workers will be extremely small due to the relatively high
cost of certification and the complexities inherent in assembling the evidence portfolio of acquired skills.

(m)     Effective articulation between the education and employers is vital.             The competency-based
scheme seems to work more effectively where there exists a clear articulation between the UTS schools and
the regional productive sectors, especially the private ones.

(n)     Tracer studies are necessary. These kinds of studies are necessary to ascertain the advantages
and disadvantages of curricular innovations and to fine-tune project design and implementation strategies.

(o)     Use the "Cooperative Legal Figure" as a way to expand competency-based training in UTS
schools. The supply of competency-based training provided by those UTS schools where the articulation
with the regional productive sector is working well could be greatly increased if these schools adopt a
"Cooperative" legal and fiscal arrangement. This arrangement allows the schools to increase their revenue
by providing invoices for their services, which can then be used by the employer for tax-rebate purposes.
This additional revenue could be allocated by the school to: (i) acquire more equipment and adapt the
physical spaces required; (ii) provide further training to their teachers; and (iii) incorporate new norms in
their competency-based curriculum.

With respect to Component D (Project Administration)

(p)     Inclusive and participative management which creates a conducive environment to strengthen
stakeholder ownership and thus increases the likelihood for effective implementation, was largely lacking
during critical years of implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided the Bank on April 30, 2004, the Final Report of the project for the period
1995-2003. This report has been filed in IRIS.



                                                     - 24 -

Additionally, the following comments to the ICR report were received from the Borrower in September
2004:

                            CONTRIBUTION OF THE BORROWER

This note has as a purpose the following three points:

1. Express our disagreement with regard to the methodology utilized by staff in the preparation of
      the ICR.
2. Suggest that the project was successful when measured against what was agreed upon
      contractually with the Bank.
3. Identify the coincidence points with the Bank and of learned lessons.

Disagreement in the methodology utilized by the Staff of the Bank.

i)      The document confuses the ratings that the Bank itself grants to the team that was
responsible for the design and evaluation of the Project with the performance of the Borrower.
The report points out that its preparation team did not adhere to the standards that are now
current policies, but that did not exist at the time of the preparation and appraisal This situation
results that in the whole ICR document there is an erroneous criteria of evaluation that respond
to "Results of the project against what should have been" and not precisely to "Results of the
project against what was designed and agreed upon with the Bank." The foregoing means that if
the action of the Project was assessed in accordance with the provisions in the signed documents,
the physical goals reached and observed by the different missions of supervision through the
indicators agreed upon, surpass those established in the legal documents. The latter is
corroborated with the aide memoire of the supervision mission of June 2003.

ii)     The methodological perspective of the staff that prepared the ICR shows an ignorance of
the origins of the project as documented at the time of appraisal. The Borrower in accordance
with the Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 13008-ME of 13 May 1994), tried to
improve the quality (relevance) of the technical education and training with an approach to reform
"from outside" and not "from inside" because it was conscious that the strong inertia of some
educational executors would have impeded the good progress of the project. Initial reactions of
nonacceptance of the project were expected. An example of this was the opposition of those
executors to consider the certification of the competencies by agencies of third party.

ii)     In addition, the Borrower's team also wants to clarify that in the missions led by the last
task manager of the Project, short field visits were carried out in only a small number of schools
of Component B, which in our judgment suggest that it would be difficult to find evidence or solid
elements for the evaluation and preparation of this ICR. This is also indicated by the Bank itself
when he points out in the section 4.1 of the report that "The mission of June 2003 could not
obtain sufficient analytical evidence in order to evaluate the impact of the project in the
achievement of its development objectives, ....". The Borrower's team considers that a larger
sample, with sufficient time to identify evidence and with a plan of consistent research with the
objectives of the component and with greater objectivity by the leader of the mission, would have


                                                  - 25 -

generated different results in the evaluation than those reported by the Bank staff in this ICR.

Results of the Project with regard to the commitments and goals considered in the legal
documents agreed with the Bank.

i)      It is necessary to point out before any other observation in this section, that the assertion
by the Bank in the section 4.1 of the ICR is not correct, in the sense that there were questions of
performance and impact not addressed by the Borrower in various studies required to be carried
out under Component D before the tenth and last amendment. Specifically in the mid-term review
we pointed out that all the studies were carried out with terms of reference approved by the Bank.
We received no comments from the Bank disagreeing with these studies. As regards the assertion
by the ICR that the Mission of June 2003 did not obtain the sufficient analytical information in
order to evaluate the impact of the Project, it is important to mention that we agreed with the
Bank that the June's mission was of supervision, and that the closing mission would be carried
out in September of that year, in which they would have the elements required for the evaluation;
however the Bank decided not to have this mission.

ii)     The staff confuses the scope of the Project. The nature of any educational project that
means a change of paradigm in the construction as this one, has an impact that can only be
observed in the long term. The observations that the ICR expresses in section 4.1 of the document
are not pertinent; it shows on the other hand, an ignorance of the characteristics of the PMETyC
and confuses it with traditional schemes for technical education and training.

iii)    The staff of the Bank does not take into account the innovative character of the PMETyC,
nor the form of intervention of the government for its application. It does not take into account
the scale of the participating educational institutions of the Project, nor characteristics of the
design of the technical process. From the start, the PMETyC was an effort to reform technical
education and training, and its construction implied a progressive process of improvement of the
learning curve and its results should have been seen with regard to the experiences of the pilot
studies and their demonstrative effect on the rest of the educational system and acceptance by the
national productive apparatus. It is not possible to argue, as the Bank proposes, that after four
years of operation of the project, (four more were occupied for the methodological construction,
institutional, development of markets, among other aspects), significant changes can be observed
in the quality of the educational offer and impact on the productivity of the certified workers. The
proof of impact is given in the long run when the intervention of the project has managed to
modify the social behavior and achieve the desired scenarios with sustainability. An example is
that in the United Kingdom that only after more than 15 years of its application and in favorable
cultural contexts in the application of the evaluation and certification by third parties, the results
of impact on the application of the NVQs can be observed. The governmental intervention in the
application of the PMETyC is based in actions that are sustained by the acceptance of the market
and not by legal mandate, as in other countries such as Spain and Australia. The design of the
PMETyC makes it unique for its design and construction; however its results have permitted an
ever-growing use of its instruments. That is the case of institutions of the civil service, of national
companies, public, and private universities. The PMETyC has also been a model for other Latin
America countries and for Spain. The available examples are numerous, but apparently the ICR



                                                 - 26 -

has not considered them, despite the information given to the team members during the last
missions.

iv)     In consequence, we are in agreement with the ICR as shown in the final paragraph of
section 4.1 where the project implemented successfully some originally established tasks, but the
impact with regard to the established objectives of the project are difficult to assess; however the
met targets surpassed the ones considered in the legal documents.

Points of coincidence with regard to the this report lessons learned.

·       Improvement in the project design and in all the components is required, but mainly the
application of interesting experiences of other countries and the exploration of national successful
experiences has to be collected with better effectiveness.

·       To strengthen the coordination entities within the components and among them is
required, with transparent and consensus functions among the executors, and with better
organized intervention of the government, mainly in the times of authorization of the budget and
its execution.

·       The sustainability in all the components is not homogeneous. Ups and downs are seen in
the operation of some executors, which means that a greater commitment is required, particularly
of component B.

·       Changing the traditional vocational curriculum to a competency-based one does not
constitute, by itself, a strategy to improve the quality of the learning. A more organized
intervention complemented with other management quality tools such as ISO 9000 is required.
This would also help minimize the perverse effects that occur when changes of the people
responsible of the institutions are given. A greater uniformity in the design of the educational
contents in regard to the standards of competition. is required.

·       Improve the supervision missions, integrate it with skilled personnel who can contribute to
a better performance of the project, and stay longer.

·       Strengthen the alliances with the private sector to increase the demand for training, based
on specific agreements of collaboration.

·       The follow-up studies are necessary. This type of studies are necessary in order to
determine the advantages and curriculum innovation disadvantages in order to refine strategies of
design and implementation of the project.

·       The enforcement of the model of competencies in the educational executors should be
based on institutional reforms authorized by its respective authorities.

·       The quality of the certifying agencies, of evaluation centers, of the eligibility and action of
the worker trainers, should be strengthened.



                                                 - 27 -

·       To promote the participation of the universities of the country both in the use of the
competencies to reform its offers, as well as the service providers of research and needed studies
for the project is required.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                               - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Target: Creation, staffing, and bylaws of                                      CONOCER is fully functional
CONOCER

Target: Create of 45 Normative Committees                                      76

Target: Complete 310 qualification of                                          613 (46.6% of them are dormant and were
competency standards                                                           never utilized)

Target: Create 24 Certification Bodies                                         32
Recognized by the Private Sector




Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of certification units provided        126,168                          195,844 (equivalent to 87,442 certificates
                                                                               provided or 67,438 individual fully certified an
                                                                               approved norm by CONOCER)


Number of courses in UTS schools              585                              1,096
converted to the modular competency-based
curriculum


Number of teachers trained in                 26,983                           31,380
competency-based curriculum in UTS
schools


UTS schools participating in the project that 408                              392*
received equipment


Number of students in UTS schools enrolled 644,551                             754,424
in competency-based curriculum courses
during the life of the project.


Number of UTS schools accredited by           412                              382
CONOCER as CEAs


Training fellowships provided by Component 62,493                              80,600
C


Certificates provided to unemployed or        22,575                           34,077
sub-employed trained workers by Component
C


Pilot cases                                   54                               54


Workers, mostly from SMEs, trained under      42,757                           66,832
Component C


SINOE Management Information System                                            Operational


CONOCER's Management Information                                               Operational
System




                                                            - 29 -

SISPAE Management Information System                                   Operational
SAPAC Management Information System                                    Operational
Occupational Catalogue                                                 Ready


Studies                              10                                44 **

1End of project

* The equipment provided by PMETyC for the participating UTS school relates only to the approved
competency-based course (equipment was not provided for the entire UTS school).
** These studies do not include the important and required impact evaluation studies mentioned in Part D2
of Schedule 2 to the Legal Agreement, before it was amended in September 2002.




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. National System of Competency Standards, Skills           31.10          72.65           233.6
Testing and Certification.

B. Modernization of Training Programs                       141.70         115.53           81.53

C. Stimulation of Demand for Competency-Based Training      190.00          46.30           24.37
and Certification

D. Information Systems, Studies and Project
Administration
    D1. Information Systems                                   3.10            2.10          67.74
    D2. Studies                                               8.50            3.86          45.41
    D3. Project Administration                                5.70          18.70          328.07

Total Baseline Cost                                         380.10         259.14
 Physical Contingencies                                       7.90
 Price Contingencies                                         24.00
                          Total Project Costs               412.00         259.14
                   Total Financing Required                 412.00         259.14
Appraisal Estimate information taken from the SAR, page 25.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                 2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           64.20           31.80         10.60         0.30        106.90
                                  (57.20)         (28.60)       (9.50)         (0.00)     (95.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         79.70         0.00        79.70
Consultants, Studies and           (0.00)          (0.00)       (59.80)        (0.00)     (59.80)
Technical Assistance

4. Traning Materials and           13.00           14.40         38.40         0.00        65.80
printing and reproduction
of training modules
                                   (6.60)          (9.00)       (19.30)        (0.00)     (34.90)
5. Stipends and Incentives          0.00            0.00        118.90         0.00        118.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (54.20)        (0.00)     (54.20)
6. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00         40.70         0.00        40.70
Costs                              (0.00)          (0.00)       (20.80)        (0.00)     (20.80)




                                                - 31 -

       Total                                77.20             46.20             288.30             0.30             412.00
                                           (63.80)           (37.60)           (163.60)           (0.00)           (265.00)
   Information taken from the SAR, page 28. The exchange rate was 3.38 MX pesos for one US dollar

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.05)            (0.00)           (1.05)
   2. Goods                                 64.20             31.80             10.60             0.30             106.90
                                           (52.83)           (12.27)            (3.09)            (0.00)           (68.19)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             79.70             0.00             79.70
   Consultants, Studies and                (0.00)             (0.28)           (56.39)            (0.00)           (56.67)
   Technical Assistance

   4. Traning Materials and                 13.00             14.40             38.40             0.00             65.80
   printing and reproduction
   of training modules
                                           (3.29)             (3.71)            (0.00)            (6.29)           (13.29)
   5. Stipends and Incentives               0.00               0.00            118.90             0.00             118.90
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (18.65)            (0.00)           (18.65)
   6. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00             40.70             0.00             40.70
   Costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (81.72)            (0.00)           (81.72)

       Total                                77.20             46.20            288.30             0.30             412.00
                                           (56.12)           (16.26)          (160.90)            (6.29)          (239.57)
   For conversion purposes, an average rate of $8.72 mexican pesos to one US dolar was considered for the
   entire
   project execution cycle (1995-2003).

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. National System of          17.80        15.30                    34.88         37.77                 196.0    246.9
Competency Standards,
Skills Testing and
Certification.

B. Modernization of            115.00       37.80                    84.39         31.14                 73.4      82.4
Training Programs

C. Stimulation of Demand       118.40       60.90        28.70       30.34         15.96                 25.6      26.2      0.0



                                                           - 32 -

for Competency-Based
Training and Certification
D. Information Systems,
Studies and Project
Administration
 D1. Infromation Systems    2.80    0.50            1.84   0.26     65.7  52.0
D2. Studies                 7.50    1.20            3.39   0.47     45.2  39.2
D3. Project Administration  3.50    2.60           10.01   8.69     286.0 334.2
Total Project Cost         265.00  118.30  28.70   164.85  94.29    62.2  79.7  0.0




                                            - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


As mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, no economic cost-benefit analysis was carried out at the time of project
appraisal. Furthermore, the Borrower carried out no impact evaluation studies after the mid-term review,
as originally intended in the design of Component D (though the tenth and last amendment later relaxed
compliance of this covenant to the LA). Therefore, no economic cost-benefit analysis was done at the time
of the ICR either.

Nevertheless, in recent years the Bank undertook several related studies on the Mexican, Malaysia,
Colombia and Taiwan (China) Technical Education sub-sectors, whose preliminary findings allow for some
thought on the future challenges facing Mexican society in its attempt to modernize technical education.
These studies, five of which are unpublished and two published, include: (i) Cost-Benefit Analysis of
Technical Secondary Education in Mexico, by Gladys Lopez Acevedo, The World Bank, June 2002; (ii)
Mexico Technical Education and Training: Issues and Options. Volumes I and II, by Indermit Gill and
Anna Sant'Anna, The World Bank, May 31, 2003; (iii) Mexico: Training Assessment Study. The World
Bank, 1997; (iv) Mexico: Enhancing Factor Productivity Growth. Country Economic Memorandum, The
World Bank 1998; (v) Mexico: Technology, Wages and Employment, Report No. 22797-ME, The World
Bank 2001; (vi) Enterprise, Training, Technology and Productivity in Malaysia. The World Bank
Country Study, 1997; and (vii) Technology and Firm Size-Wage Differentials in Colombia, Mexico and
Taiwan (China), by Hong Tan and Greeta Batra, The World Bank Economic Review, Vol 11, No. 1,
pp.59-84, 1997.

The summary of the main finding of these studies is that effective and pertinent technical training is
Mexico's primary tool for reaching equilibrium in the market for skilled labor and increasing productivity.

According to Lopez Acevedo's study, secondary technical education may be an alternative for those
individuals that face both high opportunity costs for continuing formal education and also need to acquire
skills that enable them to participate in the job market. The fourth study mentioned above (World Bank
1998) showed that technical education after completing lower secondary school level increased earnings on
average by 32%. The findings of the fifth, sixth and seventh studies suggest that investments in human
capital, especially in training, in conjunction with technology adoption, increases productivity benefits.
These findings also suggest that wage premiums are primarily the result of investment in research and
development and in training.

However, the accomplishments of the technical secondary education system in Mexico are low in keeping
the students in school and attaining appropriate skills needed in the labor market when they graduate.
According to data provided by SEP, in the 2001-02 school year, the terminal efficiency rate at technical
secondary school was only 51.7% as compared to 86.5% for the humanistic-scientific secondary
subsystem. Dropout and repetition rates are unacceptably high, 23.1% and 21% respectively. Evidence on
the low educational achievement in technical education is drawn from SEP's Council of the National
System of Technological Education (COSNET) showing that, by and large, vocational and technical
systems are not providing new entrants with appropriate skills.

Lopez Acevedo's study also provides a preliminary cost-benefit analysis of completing technical secondary
education. The cost side of the equation includes investment (infrastructure and equipment) and operation
(salaries of teachers and administrators, security services and utilities) costs. The benefit side includes
annual average income for three types of sets of students, those with: (i) completed lower secondary but
incomplete upper secondary technical education; (ii) completed lower secondary and upper secondary



                                                   - 34 -

technical education; and (iii) completed scientific-humanistic upper secondary education. The cost data
refers to the three-year program, while the benefits were drawn from a Mincerian regression, based on the
Mexican National Urban Employment Survey, controlling for self-selection. The annual costs and benefits
are shown in the tables below.

                   Fixed and variable costs (CONALEP sub-system)
                     Total Costs                           Current 2001 pesos
                     Total costs                            4 259 636.59
                     Variable costs                            71 723.25
                     Fixed costs                             4 331 359.84
                     Number of students                         1025
                     Average Costs
                     Total average cost                        4 225.72
                     Variable average cost                     4 155.54
                     Fixed average costs                        69.97
                        Source: Campos, Marcos. 2001. Estudio de Costos de los
                        Ejercicios 1992 y 1994, Plantel CONALEP "Gustavo A. Madero


                  Benefits of secondary technical education by type of student
      Education Level                                                   Annual Average Income
                                                                              (2001 pesos)
      Secondary plus incomplete technical education                            30,030.6
      Secondary plus complete technical education                              42,334.4
      Complete upper-secondary                                                 38,936.6

      Marginal Benefit of Complete Technical Secondary                         12,304.8
      Education
    Source: Own estimations based on the ENEU.

Assuming a discount rate of 12.5%, real earning differences remain constant in the years that follow, and
the probability of finding a job is one year after graduating, the "break-even" year for complete technical
secondary education, discounted present value of accumulated benefits equals economic costs, is 3 years
after graduation.

Finally Lopez Acevedo's study also estimated the potential economic and fiscal impact of technical
secondary education in Mexico based on a dynamic model that takes into account the flows and stock of
human capital in technical secondary school and net benefit of completing technical secondary level. The
preliminary findings show that as a result of a 10% decrease in dropout rates, and assuming that all
graduates complete technical education in three years, this decrease in dropout rates translates into
additional net benefits of close to $120 million Mexican pesos in 2001 and into additional fiscal resources
of close to $36 million pesos in 2001.

One of the main conclusions of Lopez Acevedo's study is that increasing the quality and efficiency of
general education levels is a necessary condition to increase the net benefits and decrease the costs, thus
making the cost-benefit relationship even more attractive. As confirmed by the Gill and Sant'Anna's study
(below): (i) employers' decisions to train and the productivity outcomes of training depend on the stock of
education and technical skills that individuals bring to the labor market; and (ii) it is more cost-effective to
impart training to workers who are adept at learning (meaning, they have graduated from a relevant and
high quality general education system).




                                                         - 35 -

                                                   G D P P e r W o r k e r , c o n s t a n t p e s o s


                4 8 , 0 0 0
                4 6 , 0 0 0
                4 4 , 0 0 0
                4 2 , 0 0 0
                4 0 , 0 0 0
                3 8 , 0 0 0
                3 6 , 0 0 0
                3 4 , 0 0 0
                3 2 , 0 0 0
                3 0 , 0 0 0

                            1970  1972  1974  1976   1978    1980     1982   1984      1986    1988   1990  1992  1994  1996  1998  2000




According to Gill and Sant'Anna study, informality and low productivity characterize the labor force of 40
million out of a prime-aged population of about 60 million in Mexico. This labor force has grown at an
average rate of 3% between 1980-1999, and between 40 and 60% (depending on the measure used) are in
the informal sector of the economy. These developments are consistent with low labor productivity growth.
Indeed, productivity has stagnated in Mexico since the mid-1980s (see figure above), making only a slow
recovery since 1995. This may be one of the most serious problems afflicting the Mexican economy.
Possible culprits for stagnating labor productivity may be low general education levels (as evidenced in the
Lopez Acevedo's study), poor use of technology, and/or poor technical education and training policies.
Unfortunately, no tracer studies were undertaken by PMETyC to ascertain these hypotheses and assess the
impact of graduating from UTS schools with a modular competency-based curriculum on job performance,
wages and productivity as compared with graduating from the traditional vocational-technical education in
UTS schools.

Mexico has made progress both in improving education and, more recently, in improving the opportunities
for technology absorption. The average education level in Mexico for the 15-year-old or over population is
now close to 7.6 years (still low compared with over 12 years in most of the OECD countries, over 9 years
in Argentina and Chile, and over 10 years in Cuba). Mexico's progress can be gauged by benchmarking it
against South Korea, one of the most successful developers during the last two decades. Mean education
levels in Korea tripled from 3.2 to 10.5 years between 1960 and 2000; mean education levels in Mexico
also almost tripled, from 2.4 to 7.6 years during the same period.

But while long-term productivity growth in Korea has been high -- averaging more than 1.5 percent
annually between 1960 and 2000 -- Mexico has struggled to raise productivity. Over the last four
decades, annual productivity growth has been about 0.3 percent, and estimates indicate that this rate of
increase dropped to 0.1 percent in the last decade. The data show that productivity growth has increased
considerably since 1995, after Mexico joined the NAFTA, while productivity growth between 1990 and
1994 was less than 0.5 percent, it quadrupled to almost 2 percent in the late 1990s. Labor productivity has
also risen since 1996, but more slowly. These developments provide some grounds for optimism, but also
hint at other factors constraining labor productivity increases.

Mexico's public spending on education as a share of GDP is about 5%, somewhat higher than that of
Korea. But when private expenses are included, Korea spends almost 13.5% of GDP on education, almost
certainly one of the highest percentages in the world.                           For training systems, the story is similar.



                                                                 - 36 -

Government dominates Mexico's provision of secondary and post-secondary vocational and technical
education; in Korea, it is mainly private. While both countries have taken measures to encourage in-service
training, Korea has relied more on policy instruments (levy-grants, mandates, tax incentives) to encourage
training in private firms, while Mexico has, until recently, relied more on public provision.

Mexico may want to pay special attention to institutional reform to strengthen the links between industry
and UTS schools, universities, research institutes and training providers. Technical secondary schools in
Mexico were originally designed to complement the general secondary education with some vocational
training, as done in some OECD countries like Spain (Ley Orgánica del Sistema Educativo) and the
Netherlands. In practice, many of these technical secondary schools, far from their envisaged objective,
have served to stream students into vocational-technical versus humanistic-scientific education as early as
the seventh grade (first grade of the lower secondary education). In these cases, Mexico may want to
reconsider postponing vocational education to post-secondary levels (after grade 9), as done by other more
developed countries, as a more appropriate strategy, given that rapid technical changes necessitate a
stronger general education base. Following this recommendation implies that the Mexican government
consolidates the current lower secondary vocational education structure into a more universal basic
education.

Gill and Sant'Anna's study also shows that, in contrast to vocational education (training for a job) and
technical education, in-service training (training on the job) is mostly private (75% in the workplace or in
private institutions). In-service training varies significantly in Mexico by firm and worker characteristics.
Larger firms, firms with high intensity of research and development efforts, and firms in export and
technology-sensitive sectors are more likely to provide in-service training. The bulk of firms, mostly SME,
do not provide any kind of training, by and large, to their employees. Workers with higher education levels
are much more likely to receive training than their less educated counterparts, and the age profile of trained
workers exhibits an inverted "U"-shape pattern, cresting at ages 35-39. Training incidence does not change
much in good economic years (1998-99) and bad (1994-95) years. Good training can be considered an
effective link between education and technology, and a proven way to achieve a needed increase in
productivity, especially in SME firms, which integrate the majority of the labor force.

CONOCER offers a way to strengthen the qualification systems by using a system of standards and
assessments for vocational education and training. These standards can play various useful roles: (i) by
improving the efficiency of public provision; (ii) through regulation of private providers of training; and
(iii) by improving labor market information. It need not be only CONOCER which provides the framework
for applying standards since, as mentioned elsewhere in the ICR, that has proven to be costly and to a
certain degree inefficient and ineffective, but a national system could be developed which was flexible
enough to incorporate, in addition to CONOCER, complementary institutional standards.

Finally, Gill and Sant'Anna study also advocates: (i) facilitating private sector participation in both
institution-based and industry-based education and training as the public sector alone cannot provide all the
resources needed in the different sectors of education and training; (ii) promoting the adoption of new
technologies through improved access to them and stronger incentives to adopt them as an effective
approach to training; (iii) promoting more effective training policies, especially to target those firms
(SMEs) which are out of the training circuit and to continue programs to train poor, young jobseekers,
especially programs that have employer participation; (iv) improving the timely dissemination and the
pertinence of information concerning the medium and long-term benefits of training; and (v) reconsidering
the current legal mandate to train (with which most of the Mexican firms do not comply), and replacing it
with incentives to innovate and formalize training, especially among SME firms.




                                                     - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1993                   6    One program management
                                             specialist, two training
                                             specialists, one educator and two
                                             economist
              12/1993                   6    Two economists, two training
                                             specialists and two educators
              03/1993                   5    Two economists, two training
                                             specialists and one educator
              05/1994                   7    Two economists, two training
                                             specialists, one educator, one
                                             procurement specialist and one
                                             operations analyst

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1994                   8    Two economists, one
                                             educator, one training
                                             specialist, one MIS
                                             specialist, one procurement
                                             specialist, two operations
                                             analysts
              09/19/1994                5    Two economists, one operations
                                             analyst, one disbursement officer
                                             and one legal counsel

 Supervision
              11/1994                   1    One economist                          S               S
              12/08/1995                4    Two program management                 S               S
                                             specialists, one training
                                             specialist, and one economist.

              01/31/1997                7    one MIS specialist, one                S               S
                                             procurement specialist, two
                                             economists, one training
                                             specialist; one information
                                             specialist; and one gender
                                             specialist

              02/20/1998                4    One education specialist, one          S               S
                                             training specialist, one conomist,
                                             one training specialist, and one
                                             MIS specialist

              09/14/1998                4    A task team leader, one                S               S
                                             economist, one accountant, and
                                             one educator.




                                              - 38 -

               01/29/1999              5   A task team leader, two                 S    S
                                           economists, one accountant, one
                                           Sr. educator.

               03/15/1999              2   A task team leader, and one             S    S
                                           economist.

               04/07/2000              1   A task team leader, one                 S    U
                                           economist, and one educator
                                           consultant.

               11/30/2000              6   A task team leader, one financial       S    S
                                           management specialist, one MIS
                                           specialist, two economists, and
                                           one team assistant.

               08/24/2001              1   Task Manager                            U    S

               03/18/2002              4   A task team leader, one social          S    S
                                           sector specialist, one education
                                           specialist, and one task assistant.
               09/30/2002              3   A task team leader, one technical       S    S
                                           educator, and a social sector
                                           specialist

               06/09/2003              5   A task team leader and education        S    S
                                           specialist, project implementation
                                           specialist, social sector specialist,
                                           procurement specialist and team
                                           assistant


 ICR
                                            The Borrower did not agree
                                            to convert the June 2003 as
                                            an ICR mission. Despite the
                                            Borrower's objection, the
                                            Bank team utilized the
                                            information collected in the
                                            June 2003 mission to
                                            prepare the ICR. No formal
                                            ICR mission took place
                                            afterwards.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         47.1 (*)                           207.20
  Appraisal/Negotiation              21.0 (*)                             52.00
  Supervision                          168.8                              682.1




                                            - 39 -

 ICR                                           9.4                       39.1
 Total                                       246.3                       980.4
(*) Estimated based on data provided by Project files, BW, Fact and SAP.
     Appraisal and Negotiations information included under Preparation




                                                   - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


The ratings allowed by the ICR format are too general and do not allow for qualification (i.e. between
satisfactory and marginally satisfactory). See Section 7 for further qualification explanation of the above
ratings.




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank preparation documents

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Document 13008-ME, May 13, 1994.

Initial Executive Project Summary. The World Bank. November 10, 1993

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
May 16, 1994.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
August 27, 1994

Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 13416-ME. The World Bank. October 5, 1994.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. September 19, 1994.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 3805-ME. The World Bank. Conformed copy. February 7, 1995.

Guarantee Agreement 3805-ME. The World Bank. Conformed copy. February 7, 1995.

Amendments to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements. First amendment of July 14, 1995 (first partial Loan
cancelation). Second amendment of October 9, 1997. Third amendment of February 27, 1998. Fourth
amendment of July 23, 1998. Fifth amendment of May 24, 1999. Sixth amendment of October 22, 1999.
Seventh amendment of March 26, 2001. Eight amendment of November 7, 2001 (second partial Loan
cancelation). Ninth amendment of August 1, 2002 (third partial Loan cancelation). Tenth amendment of
September 4, 2002 countersigned by the Borrower (NAFIN) on September 5, 2002 and the Guarantor
(SHCP) on June 10, 2003 and ratified by the Mexican Federal Treasury on October 29, 2003.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters and
Project Status Reports of all the Supervision Missions. The World Bank. December 1995- June 2003.

Borrower project implementation documents

Análisis Presupuestal del PMETyC. Unidad Administradora del PMETyC. México. Junio 2003.

Aportes para la Preparación del Informe de Cierre del Proyecto para la Modernización de la Educación
Técnica y Capacitación (Documento de Trabajo). Subsecretaría de Educación e Investigación
Tecnológicas. SEP. Junio 2003.

Diagnóstico del PMETyC a Octubre 2002. Unidad Administradora del PMETyC. México. Junio 2003.

Informe de Cierre del PMETyC Respecto del Componente C (Estímulos a la Demanda de Capacitación
y Certificación). Coordinación Técnica de Proyectos con Organismos Financieros Intermacionales.
Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social. Noviembre 2003.



                                                  - 43 -

Informe de la Coordinación General de Educación Basada en Competencias. Subsecretaría de Educación
e Investigación Tecnológicas. SEP, Marzo 2003.

Memoria 1995-2002 (Documento preliminar) del Proyecto para la Modernización de la Educacion
Técnica y la Capacitación (PMETyC). Unidad Administradora del PMETyC. México. Junio 2003.

Sistema Nacional de Educación Tecnológica 2000-2001 en Cifras. Subsecretaría de Educación e
Investigación Tecnológicas. SEP (ISBN: 970-18-7419-6). Noviembre 2001.

Bank project-related documents

Cost-Benefit Analysis of Technical Secondary Education in Mexico, by Gladys Lopez Acevedo, The
World Bank, June 2002.

Enterprise, Training, Technology and Productivity in Malaysia. The World Bank Country Study, 1997.

FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment of the Mexico: Technical and Education Training Project.
Quality Assurance Group. The World Bank. September 18, 2000.

Mexico: Training Assessment Study. The World Bank, 1997.

Mexico: Enhancing Factor Productivity Growth. Country Economic Memorandum, The World Bank
1998.

Mexico: Technology, Wages and Employment, Report No. 22797-ME, The World Bank 2001.

Mexico Technical Education and Training: Issues and Options. Volumes I and II, by Indermit Gill and
Anna Sant'Anna, The World Bank, May 31, 2003.

Technology and Firm Size-Wage Differentials in Colombia, Mexico and Taiwan (China), by Hong Tan
and Greeta Batra, The World Bank Economic Review, Vol 11, No. 1, pp.59-84, 1997.




                                                - 44 -

- 45 -

