Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
September 4, 2002 
 
Mario Laborín Gómez 
Director General 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre III, 8 Floor 
Col. Guadalupe Inn 
01020 México, D.F. 
México 
 
Alonso García Tamés 
 
 
 
Claudia María Bazúa Witte 
Director General de Crédito Público 
 
Tesorera de la Federación 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central  
 
Av. Constituyentes 1001, Edif.. “A”piso 4 
Tercer piso, oficina 3010, Col. Centro  
Col. Belén de las Flores 
03100  México, D.F. 
 
 
 
Deleg. Álvaro Obregón, 
México 
 
     01110, 
México, 
D.F. 
 
Re:      Loan 3805-ME (Technical Education and Training 
Modernization Project) Amendment to the Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements and to the Implementation Letter 
 
Dear Sirs:  
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, and 
to the Implementation Letter, all dated February 7, 1995, with respect to the above-
captioned Project.  Following on your request dated December 18, 2001, we have 
amended and replaced in their entirety Section 1.02; Schedule 1, table (including stating 
references to cancellations on Loan proceeds dated November 7, 2001 and August 1, 
2002, and percentages of expenditure financed under categories 4(c), 5 and 6) and 
paragraph 2(a); and Schedule 2, Part B.1, Part C, and Part D of the Loan Agreement. 
Also, Section 3.01 (b) and (c) and Sections 3.05 (a), 3.07, 3.08, 3.09, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13 and 
3.16 of the Guarantee Agreement; and finally, Attachment I; Attachment II, paragraphs 1, 
3(c) and 3(d) and 4; Attachment III, paragraphs 1(b), 1(c), 2 and 3(a); and Attachment 
IV, paragraphs 3, 5(c)(ii), 5(d)(i), 7(d) and 7(l) of the Implementation Letter. We are 
pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said Loan Agreement, Guarantee 
Agreement and Implementation Letter as indicated in Attachments A, B, and C to this 
letter as set forth in the consolidated version,  (including the amendments dated February 
27, 1998; June 2, 1998; May 24, 1999; October 22, 1999; and March 26, 2001) attached 
to this Amendment Letter. 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This 
amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon receipt by the 
Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinh H. Nguyen 
Acting Director 
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED:  
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.  
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By: /s/ Mario Laborín Gómez  
 
By: /s/  Alonso García Tamés 
 Authorized 
Representative 
  Authorized 
Representative 
 
Date: September 5, 2002 
 
 
Date: June 10, 2003 
 
By /s/ Claudia María Bazúa Witte 
 
Date: October 29, 2003 
 
Signed by Tesorería de la Federación for the 
only purpose of Article 54 of the Ley del 
Servicio de Tesorería de la Federación
,
regarding the Guarantor’s obligations set 
forth in Article II, Section 2.01 of the 
Guarantee Agreement.  
 
Page  3
3
ATTACHMENT  A 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1995 (as amended through August 28, 2002), 
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
 
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a new 
subparagraph (k) is added to read: 
 
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement." 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions an in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CEA” mean an individual or public sector or private sector institution or 
enterprise validly accredited by an OC (as hereinafter defined) to operate as an 
Accredited Testing Center (Centro de Evaluación Acreditado
)
and thus test the 
competency level attainment of individuals pursuant to Part A.2 of the Project;  
Page  4
4
(b) 
“CONALEP” means the Guarantor’s National Professional Technical 
Education College (Colegio Nacional de Educación Profesional Técnica
);  
 
(c) 
“CGUT” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Coordinating 
Entity for Technological Universities (Coordinación General de Universidades 
Tecnológicas
);  
 
(d) 
“DGB” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of High 
School (Dirección General de Bachillerato
);  
 
(e) 
“DGCFT” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Job Formation Centers (Dirección General de Centros de Formación para el Trabajo
);  
 
(f) 
“DGECyT” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Education, Science and Marine Technology (Dirección General de Ciencia y Tecnología 
del Mar
);  
 
(g) 
“DGETA” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Agriculture and Livestock Technological Education (Dirección General de Educación 
Tecnológica Agropecuaria
);  
 
(h) 
“DGETI” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Industrial Technological Education (Dirección General de Educación Tecnológica 
Industrial
);  
 
(i)  
“ECOSUR” means the Guarantor’s Southern Border College (Colegio de 
la Frontera Sur
);  
 
(j) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter alia, the schedule and targets referred to in 
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“INEA” means the Guarantor’s National Institute for Adult Education 
(Instituto Nacional para la Educación de los Adultos
); 
 
(l) 
“MSMEs” means private enterprises having as few as one and no more 
than 500 employees: 
 
(m) 
“OC” means a private sector institution or enterprise validly licensed by 
the Trust (as hereinafter defined) to operate as a Certification Agency (Organismo de 
Certificación
)
and thus accredit CEAs or itself operate as a CEA, and certify the 
competency level attainment of individuals; 
 
(n) 
“PAC” means STPS’s (as hereinafter defined) training support program to 
MSMEs (Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación
); 
 
Page  5
5
(o) 
“PAE” means STPS’s (as hereinafter defined) labor support program 
(Programa de Apoyo al Empleo
); 
 
(p) 
“PAU” means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) Project Administration Unit 
referred to in Section 3.18 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee (Comité Directivo
)
referred to in Section 3.18 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(r)  
“SEP” means the Guarantor’s Public Education Secretariat (Secretaría de 
Educación Pública
); 
 
(s)      “SHCP” means the Guarantor’s Finance and Public Credit Secretariat 
(Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
);  
 
(t) 
        “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“STPS” means the Guarantor’s Labor and Social Welfare Secretariat 
(Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social
);  
 
(v) 
“Trust” means the Trust in Support of the System of Occupational 
Standards (Fideicomiso de los Sistemas Normalizado de Competencia Laboral y de 
Certificación de Competencia Laboral) established pursuant to the Trust Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); and; 
 
(w) 
“Trust Agreement” means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between 
the Guarantor and the Borrower establishing the Trust. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred sixty-five million 
Dollars ($265,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  6
6
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable 
during such Interest Period. 
 
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Semester. 
 
(c)   For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed. 
 
(ii) 
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the 
Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after 
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as provided 
in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(iii) 
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of a 
calendar year. 
 
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to the 
Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as 
follows: 
 
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost 
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of 
Page  7
7
one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such 
Interest Period." 
 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter." 
 
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year." 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on January 
15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter 
alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use by the 
Guarantor, CONALEP and the Trust; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the 
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account 
of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried 
out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual and midterm reviews 
referred to in Section 3.19 of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
Trust Agreement. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend 
or fail to enforce any provision of the Trust Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise its 
rights under the Trust Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Page  8
8
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project (such 
records and separate accounts to include, inter alia, records and separate accounts with 
respect to the operation of the Trust under Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project). 
 
(b)   The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and 
 
(iv) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the 
Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Page  9
9
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a)   that the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Trust or for the suspension of the 
operations of the Trust; and 
 
(b)   that the Trust's internal operational rules and procedures referred to in Section 
3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement: (i) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely 
the ability of the Guarantor to have Parts A and D.1 of the Project carried out by means 
of the Trust in a manner consistent with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) 
shall not have been applied in accordance with their terms. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
(a) or (b) of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a)   that the Trust Agreement shall have been entered into; 
 
(b)   that the Project Steering Committee shall have been established with the 
membership set forth in Section 3.18 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
(c)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
shall have been entered into. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a)   that, on behalf of each of the Borrower and the Guarantor, the contractual 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified, and executed and delivered, by the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally 
Page  10
10
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of such 
contractual arrangements; and 
 
(b)   that, on behalf of each of the parties to the Trust Agreement, the Trust 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by each 
such party and is legally binding upon each such party in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date May 8, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:                Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA) 
 
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC) 
 
64145 (WUI) or 
 
197688 (TRT) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
 
Direccion Internacional 
 
Torre IV, piso 8 
 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
 
01020 Mexico, D.F. 
 
Mexico 
 
Cable address:                      Telex: 
 
NAFIN                           NAFIME 383-1775765 
 
Mexico City                     Mexico City 
SCHEDULE 1 
Page  11
11
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar 
Equivalent) 
 
%
of Expenditure to be 
Financed 
 
1.
Goods and equipment (other 
than as covered by Categories 2, 
4
and 7-9 and 11-13 below) 
 
95% 
 
(a) 
 With regard to Part A of 
the Project 
2,202.462
(b) 
With regard to Parts B and 
D.4 of the Project 
52,950,000
(c) 
With regard to Part C of 
the Project 
2,200,000
2.
Training materials and printing 
and reproduction of such 
materials with regard to Parts A 
and B of the Project (other than 
as covered by Categories 4 and 
11 below) 
 
6,100,000
50% 
3.
Consultant’s services (other than 
as covered by Categories 7, 8, 10 
and 12 below): 
 
100% 
 
(a) 
With regard to Parts A 
and D.1 of the Project 
12,966,290
(b) 
With regard to Parts B, 
D.2 and D.4 of the 
Project 
28,983,130
(c) 
With regard to Parts C and 
D.3 of the Project 
8,100,000
4.
Incremental operating costs: 
 
(a) 
With regard to Part A of 
the Project 
23,050,000
75% until withdrawals 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
Page  12
12
amount equivalent to 
$3,700,000; 50% until 
withdrawals under this 
Category have reached an 
aggregate amount 
equivalent to $20,400,000; 
and 30% thereafter. 
 
(b) 
With regard to Parts B and 
D.4 of the Project 
14,300,000
75% until withdrawals 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000; 50% until 
withdrawals under this 
Category have reached an 
aggregate amount 
equivalent to $13,700,000; 
and 30% thereafter. 
 
(c) 
With regard to Part C of 
the Project 
 
1,215,000
75% until withdrawals 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
$1,100,000; and 50% 
thereafter. 
5. Stipends 
8,368,460
50% until withdrawals 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
$6,500,000 and 50% 
thereafter. 
6. 
Certification support (other than 
as covered by Category 13 
below) 
900,000
90% until withdrawals 
under this Category have 
reached an aggregate 
amount equivalent to 
$800,000; and 70% 
thereafter. 
7. 
Training and technical assistance 
with regard to Parts C.2 and C.3 
of the Project (other than as 
covered by Categories 8-10 
below) 
4,661,350
100% of amounts paid by 
STPS pursuant to Sections 
3.11 and 3.12 of the 
Guarantee Agreement 
 
8. 
Training of MSME workers and 
technical assistance to MSMEs 
under Part C.3 of the Project (but 
0
60% 
Page  13
13
only for MSMEs with 15 or 
fewer employees each) 
 
9. 
Training of MSME workers 
under Part C.3 of the Project (but 
only with respect to MSMEs 
with 16 or more employees 
each) 
0
60% 
 
10. 
Technical assistance to MSMEs 
under Part C.3 of the Project (but 
only with respect to MSMEs 
with 16 or more employees 
each) 
0
60% 
 
11. 
Training under Parts B and C.4 
(a) of the Project 
12,450,000
100% 
 
12. 
Publicity activities under Part 
C.1 of the Project 
2,300,000
100% 
 
13. 
Training of instructors under 
Part C.6 (b) of the Project and 
certification support for such 
instructors 
155,770
100% 
 
14. Unallocated 
0
15 
Civil works with regard to Part 
A.1 (b) of the Project 
409,487
70% 
 
Amount cancelled as of June 14, 
1995 
30,000,000
Amount cancelled as of 
November 7, 2001 
39,688,051
Amount cancelled as of August 
1, 2002 
14,000,000
TOTAL 265,000,000
========= 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)   
The term ‘incremental operating costs’ means:  (i) Trust, PAU, STPS and OC 
operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been incurred absent the 
Project, and as part of such operational costs includes salaries only for staff of the PAU 
Page  14
14
and STPS referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement; (ii) 
CONALEP, CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA 
operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been incurred absent the 
Project, but as part of such operational costs does not include any salaries; and (iii) SEP 
costs, that would not have been incurred absent the Project, for operation of public sector 
CEAs under Part A.2 (a) of the Project; 
 
(b)   the term "stipends" means stipends referred to in Part C.4 (b) of the Project; 
 
(c)   the term "certification support" means the grants referred to in Part C.5 of the 
Project; and 
 
(d)   the term "training" may include goods, equipment and materials used exclusively 
for instructional purposes. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
 
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made in respect 
of Categories (1) through (3) and (4) (b) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 28, 1994; 
 
(b)   payments made for expenditures covered by Categories (1) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) 
until: (i) the Trust (including its technical secretariat referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of 
the Guarantee Agreement) shall have been staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
and (ii) the Trust’s internal operational rules and procedures (referred to in Section 3.06 
(b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, shall have come into 
effect; and 
 
(c)   payments made for expenditures covered by Categories (1) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) 
until the PAU shall have been established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.18 (b) of 
the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures  not subject to contract (such as, for example, 
stipends under Category (5) and certification support under Categories (6) and (13)) and 
for other expenditures (other than for goods, materials and equipment contracts exceeding 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, for contracts with individual consultants exceeding or 
equal to $50,000 equivalent per contract and for contracts with consulting firms 
exceeding or equal to $100,000 equivalent per contract) under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
Page  15
15
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of the technical education and 
training system in Mexico so as to meet the critical needs of the country’s productive 
sector in a flexible manner. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:   National System of Competency Standards; Skills Testing and Certification 
System 
 
1. 
(a) 
Development of national competency standards that individuals must meet 
in order to be certified as competent to perform occupational functions; and (b) 
institutional strengthening of the Trust by means of which such development shall be 
carried out, by providing it with financing for its staff (including the staff of the 
competency committees referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iv) of the Guarantee Agreement) 
training and technical assistance needs and for its equipment, materials, copyright license 
acquisition and incremental operating costs associated with the performance of its role 
under the Project, as well as for civil works required to refurbish the headquarters of its 
technical committee referred to in section 3.06 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Development and operation, through a network of OCs and CEAs, of a 
national testing and certification program to measure and certify the attainment by 
individuals of the skill levels specified by the competency standards developed under Part 
A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision to such OCs and CEAs of grants for their staff 
training and technical assistance needs and for their start-up, testing material 
development and (in the case of OCs only) incremental operating costs associated with 
the performance of their certification and accreditation roles under the Project. 
 
Part B:   Modernization of Training Programs 
 
1. 
Development and implementation by CONALEP, CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, 
DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA networds (on a pilot basis and with 
redesigned curricula and instructional materials, trained instructors and upgraded 
equipment) of new competency-based training modules. 
 
2. 
Development and implementation (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in 
Part B.1 of the Project) by public and private training institutions of new curricula, new 
training materials (which materials shall remain in the public domain) and new modalities 
to train instructors, all in support of modular courses designed to teach the skills 
necessary to meet the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project. 
 
Part C:   Stimulation of Demand for Competency-based Training and Certification 
 
1. 
Public promotion, through conferences, media presentations, publicity campaigns 
and the dissemination of promotion materials, of: (a) the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; (b) the national testing and certification 
program developed under Part A.2 of the Project; (c) the new training modules and 
Page  16
16
courses developed under Part B of the Project; and (d) the PAE training program referred 
to in Part C.4 of the Project; 
 
2. 
Provision, on a pilot basis, of grants to Mexican private sector enterprises in 
priority productive sectors to develop and implement competency-based training 
programs for their workers and to assess trainee attainment of competencies through such 
programs. 
 
3. 
Provision to MSMEs, as part of PAC, of grants: (a) to obtain technical assistance 
for the preparation of training programs for their workers which are based on the 
competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) to implement 
such training programs. 
 
4. 
(a) 
Training, as part of PAE, of trainees (referred to in Section 3.13 (a) of the 
Guarantee Agreement) through programs which are based on the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision of stipends to the trainees 
covered by subparagraph (a) of this paragraph. 
 
5. 
Provision of grants to cover a portion of the fees charged by OCs and CEAs to 
individuals for taking the tests (developed under Part A.2 of the Project) required to 
obtain certification of competencies. 
 
6. 
(a) 
provision of equipment (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in Part 
B.1 of the Project) to public and private training institutions in support of modular 
courses designed to teach the skills necessary to meet the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) training and certification of 
instructors (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in Part B.1 of the Project) of said 
training institutions in support of modular courses designed to teach the skills necessary 
to meet the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Projec
t.” 
 
Part D:   Project Administration and Studies 
 
1. 
Carrying out of studies to, inter alia, determine the mechanisms for, and evaluate 
the probabilities of, eventual attainment of financial solvency by the Trust, the OCs and 
the CEAs. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of studies to, inter alia: (a) improve SEP data base and information 
systems to aid in carrying out the study referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph; 
(b) identify training courses enrollment trends, in terms of change in enrollee population 
and in the demand for training in specific subject areas, during the course of the Project. 
 
3. 
Coordination of Project implementation through operation of the PAU and Project 
Steering Committee. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002. 
 
Page  17
17
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due                     
(expressed in dollars)* 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning July 15, 2000 
 
through January 15, 2010                  13,250,000 
 
_____________________________ 
 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03. 
 
Premiums on Prepayment 
 
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the 
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below: 
 
Time of Prepayment                        Premium 
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
 
percentage per annum) applicable 
 
to the Loan on the day of 
 
prepayment multiplied by: 
 
Not more than three years                           0.20 
 
before maturity 
 
More than three years but                           0.40 
 
not
more than six years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than six years but                               0.73 
 
not
more than 11 years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than 11 years but not                          0.87 
 
more than 13 years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than 13 years before                           1.00 
Page  18
18
 
maturity 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (15) and (1) through (13) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $19,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $12,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $24,000,000. 
 
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the       
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
Page  19
19
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures 
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  20
20
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount. 
 
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion 
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  21
21
 
ATTACHMENT  B 
 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1995 (as amended through August 28, 2002), 
between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2
to the Loan 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred sixty-five million Dollars ($265,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in the 
Loan Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
 
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary 
obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and 
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of 
Page  22
22
the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as 
set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, financial, 
technical and administrative standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the 
annually adjustable implementation schedule and targets set forth in the Implementation 
Letter: 
 
(a) 
cause Parts A and D.1 of the Project to be carried out by means of the 
Trust (except that SEP shall support the operation of public sector CEAs under Part A.2 
(a) of the Project); 
 
(b) 
cause CONALEP to carry out those portions of Part B.1 of the Project 
which are not assigned to CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, CGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, 
ECOSUR and INEA networks, through SEP; 
 
(c) 
carry out Part B.2 and D.2 of the Project, and those portions of Part B.1 of 
the Project assigned to the CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, CGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, 
ECOSUR and INEA networks, through SEP; 
 
(d) 
(i) carry out Part C.1 of the Project through STPS and SEP, and/or cause 
Part C.1 of the Project to be carried out by means of the Trust; and (ii) carry out Parts C.2 
through C.6 of the Project and Part D.3 of the Project through STPS; and 
 
(e) 
carry out Part D.4 of the Project through the PAU and the Project Steering 
Committee. 
 
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement. Except as 
the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of such contractual arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under 
such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  23
23
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out or cause to be carried out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project. 
 
(b)   Without limitation of the provisions of Article IX of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor shall: 
 
(i)  
prepare and furnish to the Bank, or cause to be prepared and 
furnished to the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the future 
operation of the Project; 
 
(ii)  
afford the Bank, or cause the Bank to be afforded, a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and 
 
(iii)  
thereafter, carry out said plan, or cause said plan to be carried out, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall (through STPS with respect to Parts C.2 through 
C.6 of
 the Project, the STPS’ execution of Part C.1 of the Project, and through SEP with 
respect to Parts B, D.2 and D.3 of the Project and SEP’s execution of Part C.1 of the 
Project) maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with 
the execution of the Project. 
 
(b)   The Guarantor shall: 
 
(i)    
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii)   
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
Page  24
24
(iii)   
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
(d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
(e)   The Guarantor shall cause CONALEP to provide the PAU with any information 
in CONALEP's possession required to meet the obligations set forth in paragraphs (a) 
through (d) of this Section. 
 
Section 3.06. (a) For purposes of Part A and D.1 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
enter into, and comply with the terms of, the Trust Agreement. The Guarantor shall 
exercise its rights under the Trust Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b)   The Trust Agreement shall include terms whereby, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
a technical committee, with a membership the majority of which is 
made up of non-government productive sector representatives, is 
created for the Trust to set general policies for the Trust which are 
consistent with the terms of the Trust Agreement; 
 
Page  25
25
 
(ii) 
said technical committee shall, no later than eight months after the 
date of the Trust Agreement, issue internal operational rules and 
procedures for the Trust which are consistent with the terms of the 
Trust Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
said technical committee shall establish a technical secretariat for 
the Trust to implement the general policies set by the technical 
committee and shall name such technical secretariat’s Secretary 
General; and 
 
(iv) 
competency committees shall be created, each composed of private 
sector employers and employees representing a particular 
industrial sector or occupational cluster, within the structure of the 
Trust to assist in developing the national competency standards 
referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the Project. 
 
(c)   The internal operational rules and procedures referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of 
this Section shall, inter alia, contain terms specifying: 
 
(i)    
the requirement that Parts A and D.1 of the Project be carried out 
by means of the Trust in a manner consistent with the terms of the 
Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(ii)   
the requirement that the studies referred to in Part D.1 of the 
Project be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(iii)   
the structure and operational rules and procedures of the technical 
secretariat  referred to in paragraph (b) (iii) of this Section; 
 
(iv) 
 
  the structure and operational rules and procedures of the 
competency committees referred to in paragraph (b) (iv) of this 
Section, as well as the criteria to be used for selecting the 
occupational areas for which they shall assist in developing 
national competency standards; 
 
(v)    
the procedures and criteria to be used by the Trust in granting 
licenses to OCs and by OCs in granting accreditation to CEAs, as 
well as the requirements (such as maintenance of specified data 
bases and adherence to specified organizational structures and to 
terms of reference, including procedures and fee guidelines) for an 
OC to keep its license and for a CEA to keep its accreditation; 
 
(vi)  
 the procedures and criteria according to which OCs and CEAs 
shall receive the support referred to in Part A.2 (b) of the Project; 
and 
 
Page  26
26
(vii) 
 the requirement that, throughout the course of Project 
implementation: (A) the Trust participate in the annual and 
midterm reviews referred to in Section 3.19 (b) and (c) of this 
Agreement, furnish to the Bank the reports referred to in Section 
3.19 (a) of this Agreement and carry out the action plans referred 
to in Section 3.19 (b) (ii) of this Agreement as they relate to the 
Trust's participation in the Project; and (B) the Trust maintain 
registries of the national competency standards approved by the 
Trust, of the OCs licensed by the Trust, of the accredited CEAs 
and of the individuals who have taken national competency 
standard certification tests given by the OCs and CEAs (indicating 
which have passed and which have failed such tests). 
 
Section 3.07. The Guarantor, through CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, CGECyTM, DGETA, 
DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA networks (including private training institutions associated 
with such networks), shall carry out (and the Guarantor shall cause CONALEP to carry 
out) Part B.1 of the Project based on competency standards other than, and prior to the 
development of, the national competency standards referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project.  The Guarantor shall distribute responsibilities for carrying out Part B.1 of the 
Project between CONALEP and the CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, CGECyTM, DGETA, 
DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA networks. 
 
Section 3.08. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall issue guidelines, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the provision of SEP support to assist training institutions in developing and 
implementing the new curricula, new training materials and new modalities to train 
instructors referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.  The provision of any SEP support to 
such institutions under Part B.2 of the Project shall be governed by the terms of such 
guidelines.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of such guidelines. 
 
Section 3.09. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall carry out the studies referred to in 
Part D.2 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.10. The Guarantor, through the PAU, shall, throughout the course of Project  
implementation, maintain registries of all training institutions participating in Part B of 
the Project and of the modular, competency-based training courses such institutions 
provide. In addition, the Guarantor shall cause each such institution to maintain a registry 
of the students enrolled in, and of the students that have graduated from, the modular, 
competency-based training courses offered by such institution. 
 
Section 3.11. With regard to Part C.2 of the Project, the Guarantor, through STPS, 
shall make grants available to a private sector enterprise only to reimburse no more than 
50% of the costs previously incurred by such enterprise in developing and implementing 
competency-based training programs and in assessing trainee attainment of competencies 
through such programs, with the remaining percentage to be covered by the private sector 
enterprise in question and by the government of the corresponding state.  The Guarantor, 
through STPS, shall select enterprises for participation in Part C.2 of the Project 
according to criteria referred to in Attachment III (1) of the Implementation Letter. 
Page  27
27
 
Section 3.12. With regard to Part C.3 of the Project, the Guarantor, through STPS, 
shall support MSMEs through a cost-sharing scheme whereby:  (a) with regard to the 
implementation of training under part C.3 (b) of the Project, the Guarantor shall ensure 
that the percentage of costs borne by STPS shall not exceed 50% throughout the course 
of Project implementation; (b) with regard to technical assistance under Part C.3 (a) of 
the Project, the Guarantor shall ensure that the percentage of costs borne by STPS shall 
not exceed 50% throughout the course of Project implementation; and (c) MSMEs shall 
receive the share of costs from the Guarantor, not as advances made by the Guarantor, 
but only as reimbursements made by the Guarantor for training implementation and 
technical assistance costs already incurred by the MSMEs. 
 
Section 3.13. With regard to Part C.4 of the Project, the Guarantor, through STPS, 
shall:  (a) select trainees according to criteria referred to in Attachment III (2) of the 
Implementation Letter; (b) pay trainees during their training a stipend valued at one to 
three minimum salaries, depending on the applicable regional wage (plus a transportation 
supplement equivalent to no more than 30% of the applicable regional legal minimum 
wage); and (c) pay the training institutions in question for costs such institutions have 
incurred in providing the training referred to in Part C.4 (a) of the Project. 
 
Section 3.14. With regard to Part C.5 of the Project, the Guarantor, through STPS 
(with the assistance of CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and 
INEA) and according to guidelines satisfactory to the Bank which shall include criteria 
(set forth in Attachment III (3) of the Implementation Letter) for determining which 
individuals are eligible for certification fee relief, shall reimburse OCs and CEAs: (a) for 
100% of the fee not paid by or on behalf of an eligible unemployed test taker or of an 
instructor referred to in Part C.6 (b) of the Project; and (b) for 90% of the fee (if the test 
is taken before 2001), 70% of the fee (if the test is taken during 2001) or 50% of the fee 
(if the test is taken during 2002) in the case of an eligible employed test taker for whom 
the remainder of the fee has been paid at least in part by the test taker, his employer 
(including government employer) or any other non-public entity 
 
Section 3.15. (a) The Guarantor, through STPS, shall publicly invite training 
institutions to present proposals to benefit from the training covered by Part C.6 of the 
Project. To obtain such benefits, training institutions shall be selected by the Guarantor, 
through STPS, according to procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b)   The Guarantor, through STPS, shall publicly invite training institutions to 
present proposals to benefit from the equipment covered by Part C.6 of the Project. To 
obtain such benefits, training institutions shall be selected by the Guarantor, through 
STPS, according to procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The Guarantor, 
through STPS, shall provide such equipment to training institutions which is valued at or 
below $200,000 equivalent per selected training institution. The Guarantor shall retain 
title to such equipment but shall require the training institutions to be responsible for its 
operation and maintenance. Training institutions receiving equipment under Part C.6 of 
the Project must also participate in the retraining under such Part of the Project. 
 
Page  28
28
 
(c)   The Guarantor, through STPS, shall enter into a renewable one-year term 
contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with each privately-owned training institution receiving 
equipment under paragraph (b) of this Section. Such contract and the first one-year 
renovation thereof shall each require each such training institution to provide training 
services to individuals or enterprises at a discount which results in savings to the training 
recipients equal to at least 15% per year of the cost of such equipment. Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any 
provision of the contracts referred to in this paragraph. 
 
Section 3.16. [deliberately left in blank] 
 
Section 3.17. The Guarantor, through STPS, shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, maintain registries of all the private sector enterprises participating in 
the development and implementation of training programs under Part C.2 of the Project 
and of the results achieved as a result of such participation, of all the MSMEs and 
trainees participating in Part C.3 of the Project and of all trainees benefiting from Part 
C.4 of the Project. 
 
Section 3.18. (a) The Guarantor shall set overall Project implementation coordination 
policy through the Project Steering Committee which shall operate throughout the course 
of Project implementation and shall be composed of: (i) higher-level SEP representatives; 
(ii) higher-
level STPS representatives; (iii) the Trust’s Secretary General referred to in 
Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; (iv) a representative from SHCP; and (v) a 
representative of the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall coordinate implementation of Parts B and D.2 of the 
Project through the PAU which shall operate throughout the course of Project 
implementation according to terms of reference referred to in Attachment IV of the 
Implementation Letter, as well as according to operational rules and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank, and shall be staffed on a full-time basis by a General 
Coordinator, six other Coordinators (one executive coordinator, one for administration 
and financial management, one for procurement, one for monitoring, one for evaluation 
and one for planning) and no more than twenty-one additional technical and six 
additional support staff.  Additionally, the Bank and the Borrower may, from time to 
time,  agree on a different number of staff in an amount, and with functions, experience, 
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.19. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor 
shall, through PAU, furnish to the Bank, by no later than 30 days prior to each annual 
review referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section (beginning in 1995), an annual 
progress report, in form satisfactory to the Bank, on implementation of the Project (as 
well as a proposed budget and plan for Project implementation for the immediately 
subsequent fiscal year).  The Guarantor shall cause the Trust, CONALEP and ECOSUR 
to provide PAU with all relevant information in their possession for purposes of 
preparing said reports. 
 
Page  29
29
 
(b) 
The Guarantor, through SEP, STPS and SHCP, shall participate, and shall 
cause the Trust, CONALEP and ECOSUR to participate, in annual reviews of Project 
implementation to be held in conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower during the 
second half of each month of November during Project implementation, beginning in 
1995. Each such review shall, based inter alia on the reports and proposed plans and 
budgets referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section: 
 
(i) 
examine the status of Project implementation; and 
 
(ii) 
result in the preparation by the Guarantor, no later than each 
immediately subsequent January 15, of an annual action plan for 
the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out or caused to 
be carried out by the Guarantor during the immediately subsequent 
fiscal year, each such action plan to contain, inter alia, the annual 
adjustment to implementation schedules and targets referred to in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement. 
 
(c)  
Except as provided in Attachment II of the Implementation Letter, the 
Guarantor, through STPS, SEP and SHCP, shall participate, and shall cause the Trust and 
CONALEP to participate, in a midterm review of Project implementation to be held in 
conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower in September 1998.  Such midterm review 
shall be carried out under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be 
presented by the Guarantor to the Bank by no later than November 30, 1997. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses 
 
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is designated 
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
Page  30
30
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central 
 
Oficina 4037 
 
06066 México, D.F. 
 
Telex: 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:          Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD           248423 (RCA) 
 
Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC) 
 
64145
(WUI) or 
 
197688
(TRT)                            
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I.     Procurement of Goods, Works, Certain Training Materials and Printing 
Services 
 
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding 
 
1. 
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods, non-copyrighted training 
materials (which are readily available from numerous international suppliers) and 
printing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 
1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
Page  31
31
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid 
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect 
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an 
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With 
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in accordance with the 
provisions of Part D of this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for (i) a 
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days 
and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period. 
 
(b) 
In the procurement of goods, training materials and printing services in 
accordance with Part A of this Section, the relevant standard bidding documents issued 
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project, shall be used. 
 
2. 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, training materials and printing 
services shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more each. 
 
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers 
 
In the procurement of goods and training materials in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A.1 of this Section, goods and training materials manufactured in 
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of 
Appendix 2 thereto. 
 
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures 
 
1. 
(a) 
Goods (other than training materials covered by paragraphs 2, 4 or 5 of 
this Part C) and printing services (for non-copyrighted, including promotional, materials) 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract or per bid package, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000 in the case of such goods and 
$14,400,000 in the case of such printing services, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement shall take place using standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Civil works for Part A. 1 (b) of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  Such procurement shall take place using 
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2.    Non-copyrighted training materials (which are available from only a limited number 
of international suppliers), up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,900,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the 
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I 
Page  32
32
and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof. Such 
procurement shall take place using the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. 
 
3.    Goods (other than training materials covered by paragraphs 2, 4 or 5 of this Part C) 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract or per bid package, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,600,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least 
three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
4.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines, copyrighted training 
materials (and the printing thereof), up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$27,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with the 
copyright holder (and its publisher when necessary), in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 4 of this Part, OCs may 
procure goods, training materials and printing services, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of $325,000 for each OC and the equivalent of $1,300,000 
overall, under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited 
from a list of at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)   The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract covered by Parts A and C.2 of this Section; 
(ii) each of the first contract (awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally) for goods and equipment, each of the first such contract for printing services and 
each of the first such contract for non-durable training materials entered into by the 
Guarantor through SEP, by the Guarantor through STPS, by CONALEP, by the Trust and 
by each OC, CEA and other public or private entity undertaking procurement under the 
Project; and (iii) each of the first contract (awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations) for goods and equipment, each of the first such contract for printing services 
and each of the first such contract for non-durable training materials entered into by the 
Guarantor through SEP, by the Guarantor through STPS, by CONALEP, by the Trust and 
by each OC, CEA and other public or private entity undertaking procurement under the 
Project. Where payments for any such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account 
in respect of such contract. 
 
Page  33
33
 
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. 
 
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. 
 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants 
 
1. 
In order to assist the Guarantor and/or any other Project-executing entities in 
carrying out the Project, the Guarantor shall employ and/or cause such entities to employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
consultants shall be employed under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall be used. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section: 
 
(i) the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or to contracts for 
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
of contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or above or for 
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or above; (e) amendments of 
contracts for consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above 
or for individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; 
and 
 
(ii) all invitation of consulting firms to present proposals for contracts estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or above per contract, shall be advertised in the United 
Nations’ magazine Development Business and the short lists of consulting firms to 
Page  34
34
present proposals for contracts estimated to cost less than $200 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  35
35
ATTACHMENT  C 
 
IMPLEMENTATION LETTER 
 
We refer to the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith entered into by and 
between the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). 
 
With reference to the provisions of the Guarantee Agreement, and in particular the 
Guarantor’s obligations under Sections 3.01 and 3.11, 3.13, 3.14 and 3.19 thereof, the 
Guarantor hereby confirms its understanding with the Bank on the following: (i) that the 
timetables, targets and indicators referred to in such section 3.01, as well as those to be 
covered in the annual progress reports referred to in such Section 3.19 (a), are those 
included in Attachment I to this letter; (ii) that among the topics to be covered in 
examining the status of Project implementation referred to in Section 3.19 (b)(i) of the 
Guarantee Agreement shall be those included in Attachment II to this letter; (iii) that the 
selection criteria referred to in Sections 3.11, 3.13 and 3.14 of the Guarantee Agreement 
shall be those included in Attachment III to this letter; and (iv) that composition and 
terms of reference for the Project Steering Committee and Project Administration Unit 
referred to in Section 3.18 in the Guarantee Agreement shall be those included in 
Attachment IV to this letter. 
 
Page  36
A
T
T
A
C
H
M
E
N
T
I
I
M
P
L
E
M
E
N
T
A
T
I
O
N
S
C
H
E
D
U
L
E
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
S
u
b
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
/
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
1
9
9
4
1
9
9
5
1
9
9
6
1
9
9
7
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
A
.
1
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
S
y
s
t
e
m
o
f
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
T
r
u
s
t
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
T
r
u
s
t
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
f
i
r
s
t
s
e
t
o
f
C
N
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
l
a
b
o
r
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
V
a
l
i
d
a
t
e
a
n
d
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
f
i
r
s
t
g
r
o
u
p
s
o
f
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
A
.
2
S
k
i
l
l
s
T
e
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
D
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
t
h
e
m
e
c
h
a
n
i
s
m
s
t
o
i
n
s
t
r
u
m
e
n
t
t
h
e
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
L
a
b
o
r
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
S
y
s
t
e
m
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
O
C
s
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
P
r
o
m
o
t
e
t
h
e
a
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
C
e
n
t
e
r
s
(
C
E
A
s
)
a
n
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
t
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
o
r
s
,
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
1
/
G
r
a
n
t
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
t
o
O
C
s
a
n
d
C
E
A
s
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
B
a
s
i
s
P
r
o
m
o
t
e
t
h
e
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
l
a
b
o
r
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
P
a
r
t
A
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
S
y
s
t
e
m
o
f
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
,
S
k
i
l
l
s
T
e
s
t
i
n
g
&
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
I
s
s
u
e
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
e
s
o
f
L
a
b
o
r
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
o
n
a
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
b
a
s
i
s
Page  37
3
7
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
S
u
b
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
/
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
1
9
9
4
1
9
9
5
1
9
9
6
1
9
9
7
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
B
.
1
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
M
o
d
e
r
n
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
O
f
f
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
N
I
E
O
f
f
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
(
C
B
T
)
B
.
2
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
o
f
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
M
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
A
p
p
r
o
v
a
l
o
f
r
u
l
e
s
f
o
r
F
O
D
E
C
U
M
F
i
n
a
n
c
e
F
O
D
E
C
U
M
s
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
p
r
o
p
o
s
a
l
s
B
.
3
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
L
a
b
o
r
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
i
e
s
P
a
r
t
B
M
o
d
e
r
n
i
z
a
-
t
i
o
n
o
f
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
a
s
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
c
e
n
t
e
r
s
C
.
1
P
r
o
m
o
t
i
o
n
o
f
S
N
C
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
p
r
o
m
o
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
C
.
2
P
i
l
o
t
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
S
N
C
i
n
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
-
b
a
s
e
d
p
i
l
o
t
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
C
.
3
,
4
,
5
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
&
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
c
e
n
t
i
v
e
s
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
P
A
E
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
t
o
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
P
A
E
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
t
o
C
B
T
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
n
t
s
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
P
A
C
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
t
o
C
B
T
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
n
t
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
p
r
e
-
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
i
a
g
n
o
s
t
i
c
t
e
s
t
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
c
e
n
t
i
v
e
s
C
.
6
F
u
n
d
f
o
r
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
P
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
&
I
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
S
e
l
e
c
t
b
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
y
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
P
a
r
t
C
S
t
i
m
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
D
e
m
a
n
d
f
o
r
C
B
T
&
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
a
n
d
s
u
p
p
l
y
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
Page  38
3
8
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
S
u
b
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
/
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
1
9
9
4
1
9
9
5
1
9
9
6
1
9
9
7
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
D
.
1
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
O
N
O
C
E
R
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
(
S
I
I
)
)
S
t
a
r
t
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
o
f
E
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
l
y
(
S
I
N
O
E
/
S
E
P
)
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
B
a
s
e
d
O
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
a
t
a
l
o
g
(
S
T
P
S
)
P
h
y
s
i
c
a
l
/
F
i
n
a
n
c
i
a
l
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
S
y
s
t
e
m
(
P
A
U
)
P
A
E
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
n
t
s
u
n
d
e
r
E
B
C
(
S
T
P
S
)
D
.
2
S
t
u
d
i
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
o
f
t
h
e
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
t
h
e
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
i
z
e
d
l
a
b
o
r
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
s
y
s
t
e
m
P
a
r
t
D
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
,
S
t
u
d
i
e
s
a
n
d
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
-
t
i
o
n
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
b
e
g
i
n
n
i
n
g
p
h
a
s
e
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
D
.
4
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
U
n
i
t
(
P
A
U
)
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
A
n
n
u
a
l
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
v
i
e
w
s
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
M
i
d
t
e
r
m
R
e
v
i
e
w
Page  39
3
9
P
R
O
J
E
C
T
M
O
N
I
T
O
R
I
N
G
I
N
D
I
C
A
T
O
R
S
P
a
r
t
/
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
:
U
n
i
t
1
9
9
5
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
A
-
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
S
y
s
t
e
m
o
f
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
,
S
k
i
l
l
s
T
e
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
A
.
1
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
S
y
s
t
e
m
o
f
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
C
o
m
m
i
t
t
e
e
s
(
C
N
)
C
N
i
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
4
5
5
3
6
9
7
1
8
0
N
o
t
c
u
m
u
l
a
t
i
v
e
·
P
r
o
d
u
c
e
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
f
o
r
o
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
l
u
s
t
e
r
s
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
1
5
0
1
5
5
1
4
1
5
2
1
0
0
5
9
8
·
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
p
i
l
o
t
s
p
i
l
o
t
s
i
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
3
9
3
9
4
0
2
9
3
1
N
o
t
c
u
m
u
l
a
t
i
v
e
·
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
i
n
d
e
p
t
h
p
i
l
o
t
s
N
o
.
o
f
i
n
-
d
e
p
t
h
p
i
l
o
t
s
i
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
0
4
1
3
1
4
1
4
4
5
A
.
2
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
·
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
C
e
n
t
e
r
s
C
E
A
s
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
e
d
1
/
8
9
1
6
7
4
3
3
2
1
2
7
5
9
7
6
·
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
B
o
d
i
e
s
O
C
s
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
e
d
7
8
1
1
6
6
3
8
·
C
e
r
t
i
f
y
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
u
n
i
t
s
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
u
n
i
t
s
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
:
3
6
4
5
,
6
2
1
4
7
,
3
9
6
4
7
,
7
8
7
2
5
,
0
0
0
1
2
6
,
1
6
8
Page  40
4
0
P
a
r
t
/
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
U
n
i
t
1
9
9
5
-
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
B
–
M
o
d
e
r
n
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
B
.
1
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
M
o
d
u
l
a
r
c
u
r
r
i
c
u
l
u
m
c
o
n
v
e
r
t
e
d
T
o
E
B
C
2
/
7
5
7
9
1
3
1
1
3
7
1
6
3
5
8
5
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
1
5
2
1
2
9
4
0
1
0
5
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
1
0
5
8
7
6
0
6
0
2
2
2
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
2
7
1
8
9
1
5
1
5
8
4
e
)
D
G
E
T
A
8
1
4
1
3
5
1
5
5
5
f
)
D
G
E
T
I
2
4
2
2
1
2
5
2
2
9
4
·
C
o
n
v
e
r
t
C
o
u
r
s
e
C
u
r
r
i
c
u
l
a
t
o
E
B
C
L
b
y
a
g
e
n
c
y
:
g
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
6
5
0
3
1
1
2
5
I
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
3
/
8
,
7
2
3
5
,
7
1
5
7
,
7
4
8
2
,
3
5
2
2
,
4
4
5
2
6
,
9
8
3
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
1
1
2
6
4
0
1
2
6
4
0
0
1
,
2
7
8
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
3
,
9
8
2
3
,
5
8
1
3
,
8
9
2
2
6
4
3
5
0
1
2
,
0
6
9
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
1
,
2
0
0
8
6
3
1
,
3
7
1
4
9
2
5
1
5
4
,
4
4
1
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
0
3
2
9
0
1
6
2
4
9
1
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
1
,
0
4
1
7
0
4
9
3
7
8
2
6
1
3
0
3
,
6
3
8
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
2
,
3
1
0
3
3
5
3
3
1
3
8
0
7
5
8
4
,
1
1
4
·
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
b
y
a
g
e
n
c
y
:
h
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
1
9
0
1
2
0
2
4
8
2
6
4
1
3
0
9
5
2
S
c
h
o
o
l
s
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
1
6
1
6
8
7
4
4
2
6
3
4
0
8
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
0
0
0
0
0
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
8
0
0
0
0
0
8
0
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
4
8
3
7
9
1
2
1
0
1
1
6
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
1
0
1
2
0
1
2
3
4
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
0
2
3
0
1
3
1
0
5
5
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
3
3
1
1
8
8
2
1
8
1
·
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
b
y
a
g
e
n
c
y
:
h
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
0
8
1
5
9
1
0
4
2
R
e
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
I
N
E
A
d
i
d
a
c
t
i
c
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
1
3
6
,
3
5
0
1
3
8
,
0
0
0
1
3
8
,
0
0
0
4
1
2
,
3
5
0
Page  41
4
1
P
a
r
t
/
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
U
n
i
t
1
9
9
5
-
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
T
o
t
a
l
S
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
e
n
r
o
l
l
e
d
p
e
r
y
e
a
r
2
3
,
6
8
5
1
0
7
,
1
5
1
2
2
7
,
6
9
3
1
4
6
,
0
4
0
1
4
0
,
0
0
2
6
4
4
,
5
5
1
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
8
7
1
6
4
3
0
1
3
2
7
8
7
9
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
1
0
,
7
3
9
9
6
,
1
0
0
1
8
9
,
8
2
8
9
4
,
1
7
5
9
4
,
1
7
5
4
8
5
,
0
1
7
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
3
,
4
2
4
3
,
8
5
8
1
1
,
2
6
3
1
5
,
2
2
5
1
5
,
0
0
0
4
8
,
7
7
0
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
0
2
5
0
0
3
,
0
0
0
3
,
2
5
0
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
0
0
4
,
0
1
4
4
,
5
3
0
1
,
5
0
0
1
0
,
0
4
4
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
9
,
5
2
2
7
,
1
0
6
4
,
7
3
8
1
2
,
4
8
9
1
5
,
0
0
0
4
8
,
8
5
5
h
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
0
0
3
7
2
0
5
0
0
8
7
2
E
n
r
o
l
l
s
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
i
n
E
B
C
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
i
)
I
N
E
A
0
0
1
7
,
0
4
4
1
9
,
3
2
0
1
0
,
5
0
0
4
6
,
8
6
4
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
E
A
s
S
c
h
o
o
l
s
A
c
c
r
e
d
i
t
e
d
a
s
C
E
A
s
3
2
2
2
6
4
6
0
6
3
4
1
2
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
0
1
3
1
5
1
9
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
3
1
5
7
0
4
1
2
0
1
4
9
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
0
0
4
1
0
3
4
4
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
7
4
0
0
0
4
7
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
0
0
3
2
1
8
3
0
8
0
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
0
0
4
3
0
5
4
8
g
)
D
G
E
C
y
M
T
0
0
2
5
0
0
2
5
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
d
i
v
i
d
u
a
l
s
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
d
a
t
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
C
E
A
s
4
/
4
1
4
,
3
3
7
1
4
,
0
5
8
1
2
,
8
0
3
1
7
,
1
9
4
4
8
,
4
3
3
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
0
1
,
0
2
0
4
,
3
2
2
3
,
3
3
3
8
,
6
7
5
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
4
1
9
4
1
6
,
3
5
3
5
0
0
2
,
9
9
7
1
0
,
8
3
2
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
0
4
0
0
2
,
4
7
8
3
,
4
8
9
3
,
9
9
0
1
0
,
3
5
7
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
0
1
,
4
9
5
0
2
,
6
3
6
4
,
1
3
1
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
0
2
,
0
7
5
1
,
6
4
0
1
,
0
1
0
2
5
0
4
,
9
7
5
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
0
7
3
4
4
4
2
2
,
8
8
3
3
,
4
8
8
7
,
5
4
7
h
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
0
1
8
7
6
3
0
5
9
9
5
0
0
1
,
9
1
6
M
o
d
u
l
a
r
C
o
u
r
s
e
s
O
f
f
e
r
e
d
i
n
E
B
C
2
3
2
2
,
4
5
4
6
,
1
0
3
7
,
7
4
6
9
,
4
8
0
2
5
,
7
8
3
a
)
C
G
U
T
0
0
0
0
0
b
)
C
O
N
A
L
E
P
1
,
1
7
2
3
,
4
4
4
3
,
3
3
2
3
,
3
8
5
1
1
,
3
3
3
c
)
D
G
B
(
*
)
0
Page  42
4
2
P
a
r
t
/
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
U
n
i
t
1
9
9
5
-
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
T
o
t
a
l
d
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
C
E
C
A
T
I
)
1
4
1
1
,
1
4
2
2
,
4
7
4
3
,
8
3
4
7
,
5
9
1
e
)
D
G
C
F
T
(
I
D
E
F
T
)
0
0
0
0
0
f
)
D
G
E
T
A
6
4
9
7
3
1
8
7
2
1
,
0
2
0
3
,
2
7
2
g
)
D
G
E
T
I
4
4
8
7
3
6
1
,
0
0
8
1
,
1
8
1
3
,
3
7
3
h
)
D
G
E
C
y
T
M
4
4
5
0
6
0
6
0
2
1
4
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
C
–
S
t
i
m
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
D
e
m
a
n
d
f
o
r
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
B
a
s
e
d
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
P
A
E
·
T
r
a
i
n
b
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
i
e
s
i
n
E
B
C
L
B
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
i
e
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
5
/
3
4
,
1
9
0
7
,
7
4
5
2
0
,
5
5
8
0
6
2
,
4
9
3
·
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
c
e
n
t
i
v
e
s
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
u
n
i
t
s
f
i
n
a
n
c
e
d
0
4
,
1
2
0
1
8
,
4
5
5
0
2
2
,
5
7
5
·
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
I
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
5
4
6
4
0
6
2
6
3
0
1
,
2
1
5
P
A
C
·
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
P
i
l
o
t
C
a
s
e
s
P
i
l
o
t
s
i
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
2
0
1
4
2
0
0
5
4
·
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
E
B
C
L
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
W
o
r
k
e
r
s
/
c
o
u
r
s
e
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
1
4
,
4
6
7
5
,
6
8
5
1
4
,
1
7
6
8
,
4
2
9
4
2
,
7
5
7
·
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
C
e
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
u
n
i
t
s
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
e
d
0
5
4
1
8
,
1
8
0
1
,
4
0
2
1
0
,
1
2
3
·
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
I
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
N
A
1
7
2
2
,
1
2
8
0
2
,
3
0
0
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
D
–
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
,
S
t
u
d
i
e
s
a
n
d
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
D
.
1
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
·
C
O
N
O
C
E
R
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
(
S
I
I
)
Y
e
a
r
s
t
a
r
t
e
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
X
·
E
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
l
y
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
(
S
I
N
O
E
)
Y
e
a
r
s
t
a
r
t
e
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
X
·
R
e
g
i
s
t
r
y
o
f
P
A
C
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
n
t
s
i
n
E
B
C
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
(
S
I
S
N
E
)
Y
e
a
r
s
t
a
r
t
e
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
X
·
C
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
B
a
s
e
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
O
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
a
t
a
l
o
g
(
C
N
O
)
(
S
I
C
N
O
)
Y
e
a
r
u
p
d
a
t
e
s
a
r
e
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
X
X
X
X
Page  43
4
3
P
a
r
t
/
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
U
n
i
t
1
9
9
5
-
1
9
9
8
1
9
9
9
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
2
0
0
2
T
o
t
a
l
D
.
2
S
t
u
d
i
e
s
6
/
·
M
i
d
-
T
e
r
m
R
e
v
i
e
w
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
y
e
a
r
1
9
9
8
·
O
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
A
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
y
e
a
r
X
·
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
b
e
g
i
n
n
i
n
g
p
h
a
s
e
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
y
e
a
r
X
·
C
h
a
n
g
e
s
i
n
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
E
B
C
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
y
e
a
r
1
9
9
8
D
.
3
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
F
O
D
E
C
U
M
(
d
i
d
a
c
t
i
c
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
f
u
n
d
)
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
e
d
b
y
F
O
D
E
C
U
M
4
1
0
1
5
2
0
1
5
6
4
·
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
p
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
:
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
p
r
o
d
u
c
e
d
2
1
1
1
1
6
D
.
4
D
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
·
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
C
a
m
p
a
i
g
n
(
C
O
N
O
C
E
R
)
Y
e
a
r
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
X
N
O
T
E
S
:
1
/
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
s
C
E
A
s
i
n
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
a
n
d
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
.
u
n
d
e
r
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
s
B
y
C
2
/
I
n
t
h
e
c
a
s
e
s
o
f
D
G
E
T
I
,
G
D
C
F
T
,
D
G
C
y
T
M
a
n
d
D
G
E
T
A
,
s
t
a
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
2
0
0
0
,
e
a
c
h
c
o
u
r
s
e
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
c
o
m
p
r
i
s
e
s
o
n
e
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
N
T
C
L
w
i
t
h
a
n
a
v
e
r
a
g
e
o
f
2
.
5
U
C
L
,
a
n
d
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
a
p
p
l
i
e
s
t
o
d
i
d
a
c
t
i
c
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
.
3
/
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
s
s
c
h
o
o
l
d
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
,
a
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
o
r
s
,
a
n
d
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
o
r
s
.
4
/
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
s
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
r
e
g
u
l
a
r
s
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
P
A
E
b
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
i
e
s
.
5
/
O
f
t
h
e
t
o
t
a
l
6
2
,
4
9
3
P
A
E
b
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
i
e
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
,
5
4
,
3
5
6
(
8
7
%
)
w
e
r
e
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
p
u
b
l
i
c
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
t
h
a
t
a
r
e
p
a
r
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
.
6
/
T
h
e
f
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
s
t
u
d
i
e
s
w
e
r
e
c
a
n
c
e
l
l
e
d
:
(
a
)
“
I
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
t
h
e
c
o
m
b
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
a
s
i
c
s
k
i
l
l
s
m
o
s
t
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
t
o
a
n
i
n
d
i
v
i
d
u
a
l
’
s
s
u
c
c
e
s
s
i
n
a
t
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
1
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
;
(
b
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
d
i
f
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
s
i
n
l
a
b
o
r
m
a
r
k
e
t
p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
s
u
c
c
e
s
s
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
t
r
a
i
n
e
e
s
w
h
o
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
v
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
a
n
d
t
h
o
s
e
w
h
o
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
e
d
i
n
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
2
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
;
(
c
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
d
a
p
t
a
t
i
o
n
f
r
o
m
t
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
t
o
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
2
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
;
(
d
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
t
h
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
n
e
s
s
o
f
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
u
n
d
e
r
C
I
M
O
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
3
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
;
(
e
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
t
h
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
n
e
s
s
o
f
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
u
n
d
e
r
P
R
O
B
E
C
A
T
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
3
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
:
(
f
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
,
o
n
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
s
o
f
c
a
s
e
s
t
u
d
i
e
s
,
t
h
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
o
f
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
p
r
i
v
a
t
e
s
e
c
t
o
r
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
3
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
;
a
n
d
(
g
)
“
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
t
h
e
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
s
k
i
l
l
s
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
a
n
d
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
c
e
n
t
i
v
e
s
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
”
(
P
a
r
t
D
.
3
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
.
7
/
O
r
i
g
i
n
a
l
l
y
c
a
l
l
e
d
“
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
a
n
d
t
e
s
t
t
h
e
s
k
i
l
l
s
a
n
d
c
o
m
p
e
t
e
n
c
i
e
s
g
e
n
e
r
a
l
l
y
f
o
u
n
d
a
c
r
o
s
s
o
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
l
u
s
t
e
r
s
a
n
d
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
s
e
c
t
o
r
s
i
n
t
h
e
M
e
x
i
c
a
n
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
e
s
e
c
t
o
r
;
”
P
a
r
t
D
.
1
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
.
Page  44
4
4
(
*
)
T
h
e
D
G
B
i
n
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
s
e
x
e
c
u
t
o
r
i
n
2
0
0
2
Page  45
ATTACHMENT  II 
 
1.  The Bank will conduct at least two supervision missions during each calendar 
year, one in March and a more comprehensive implementation review in 
November, starting in 1995.  The Mid-Term Review will occur in September 
1998,
 coinciding with that year’s annual implementation review. 
 
2.  The annual Implementation Reviews
 
will be organized by the PAU and will 
take place in November of each year, starting in 1995.  The meetings will be 
attended  by Trust, SEP, and STPS senior staff, the PAU Director, the 
representatives of each executing agency, NAFIN, SHCP, and Bank staff.  The 
purpose of the annual implementation review meetings would be to evaluate 
project performance against implementation plans and agreed targets; provide 
management with feedback on project achievements, and issues and areas 
needing improvement.  Specific project areas to be addressed are described 
below.  The reviews and planning process will provide a tool for on-going 
refinements in project strategies and plans, consistent with the overall 
objectives of the project. 
 
3.  The main areas to be addressed during the implementation reviews, where 
applicable, are as follows: 
 
a)  National System of Competency Standards.  The review will examine the 
progress made in the development of competency standards, including:  (i) 
the functioning of the Trust and its related organizations (i.e., Governing 
Board, Secretariat, CNs, etc.); (ii) progress made in the training of Trust 
members and other staff; (iii) the occupational coverage and quality of the 
standards being developed or proposed to be developed; (iv) result of the 
studies on basic skills, success factors for certification; (v) progress made 
in the competency standards database; and (vi) the extent to which the 
private sector has been involved and is a participant and contributor to the 
new system, particularly within the Trust and its related organizations. 
 
b)  Skills Testing and Certification System.  The review would focus on:  (i) 
the functioning of OCs and CEAs, the procedures for supervision of their 
activities; (ii) results of the study on the financial solvency of the Trust 
and OCs; (iii) the process of solicitation, review, and approval of OC 
proposals for certification and funding; (iv) sector and geographic 
coverage of the testing and certification system; (v) progress in the 
development and integration of the OCs’ databases of certified workers, 
and the accessibility of such information through employment agencies; 
and (vi) certified workers’ efficiency gains in entering the labor market. 
 
c)  Training Modernization Programs.  The review will focus on:  (i) results 
of the pilot training modernization programs and how these experiences 
have been or will be transferred; (ii) the funding mechanisms for training 
materials, instructor training and equipment management by SEP; (iii) the 
Page  46
46
match between newly developed competency standards and training 
programs; (iv) results of the studies on enrollment trends, trainee age, 
follow-up evaluation of graduates, and adaptability of public training 
institutions; (v) encouraging the participation of the private sector; and (v) 
future prospects for financing and sustainability. 
 
d)  Training and Certification Incentives.  The review will examine:  (i) the 
usage of incentives for the separate categories of beneficiaries; (ii) the 
experience with incentives for institutions to develop modular, 
competency-based training programs based on funding of equipment and 
instructor training; and (iii) results of studies on assisted PAC firms and 
PAE participants and on pilot testing of SNC in Enterprises and of an 
evaluation of certification activities for the purpose of fine-tuning the 
incentives program. 
 
e)  Information Systems and Studies.  The review will focus on the timely 
implementation of information systems and studies, including satisfactory 
terms of reference, timetables, interim and final reports, and the use of 
data and research in the improvement of project activities. 
 
f) 
Project Administration.  The review will examine:   (i) the functioning of 
the Steering Committee and cooperation between the project’s executing 
bodies; (ii) the effectiveness of training programs for policy makers and 
program managers; (iii) administrative, procurement, disbursement, and 
other functions, with special emphasis on locating and resolving 
bottlenecks; (iv) functioning of the Special Account; (v) progress under 
the project as measured through agreed implementation indicators and 
monitoring/evaluation activities; and (vi) sector strategies, action plans, 
and detailed proposed budgets for the coming year. 
 
4. 
The Mid-Term Review will take place in
 
September 1998, coinciding with 
the regular annual implementation review, and will examine the same 
elements, but under a more comprehensive, sector-wide approach.  The 
Mid-Term Review has been timed to generally coincide with the following 
events, which mark the end of the first phase of project activities:  (a) the 
completion of a first set of competency standards; (b) conclusion of the pilot 
training modernization programs; (c) design and preliminary installation of 
several information systems; and (d) preliminary results of several studies 
for the various components.  The Mid-Term Review will then assess both 
the demand and the supply for the new standards and certification/training 
system and make provisions for an adjustment, if so required, of project 
design, action plans, implementation targets, and supervision strategy.  The 
Mid-Term Review will help prepare for the project’s mainstreaming phase, 
including:  (a) further development of competency standards; (b) installation 
of
Ocs and CEAs; (c) nationwide development of CBT programs based on 
the results of the pilot training modernization program through funding of 
training materials, equipment, and instructor training; and (e) provision of 
training and certification incentives to targeted groups on a declining basis. 
Page  47
47
 
Page  48
48
ATTACHMENT III 
 
PART C 
–
STIMULATION OF DEMAND  
FOR COMPETENCY-BASED TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
 
1. 
Pilot Testing and Validation of Competencies (Part C.2).  The 
project would fund pilot testing of development or conversion of training programs.  
Large enterprises and MSMEs (within the numeric limits as presented in the 
monitoring indicators) are eligible if they fulfill the following criteria: 
 
a)  Relevant competency based modules have already been developed for 
testing; 
 
b)  The firm wishes to participate and is prepared to finance part of the costs 
of training and technical assistance involved; 
 
c)  The first is prepared to have the experience documented and disseminated 
and to act as a demonstration center by accepting visits from other 
employers or training agencies through PAC to observe the experience; 
 
d)  Priority in the development of competencies will itself reflect the interest 
expressed by the private sector, with priority given to those industrial 
activities which:  (i) have a larger weight in production, employment or 
exports; (ii) are experiencing rapid technological change; (iii) need to 
increase the skill level of their workers; or (iv) are confronted by 
significant needs to increase productivity; and 
 
e)  To facilitate the demonstration effect, to the extent possible, enterprises 
will be chosen so as to increase the geographic dispersion of the activities 
supported. 
 
2. 
Training Incentives – Targeted Workers and the Unemployed 
(Part C.4).  Through PAE,  several categories of individuals would be eligible for 
limited support (cost of training, a stipend not to surpass three minimum salaries and a 
transport allowance – all of which on average lasting about three months but shall not 
surpass six months) to undertake competency-based courses.  Eligibility of individuals 
for such support shall be determined using the following criteria: 
 
a)  Population 16 years or older experiencing open unemployment; 
b)  Population 16 years or older experiencing under-employment; 
c)  Population 16 years or older experiencing temporary suspension of 
employment. 
 
3. 
Certification Incentives (Part C.5).  The project would provide 
incentives for workers to undergo the certification process by financing part of the cost 
of testing on a declining basis, starting in 1997, under the following conditions: 
Page  49
49
 
a)  The individual has completed either a course supported by PAC, PAE or 
recognized training institution; 
 
b) Individuals lacking this background are still encouraged to present 
themselves for certification in which case a simple and rapid diagnostic 
evaluation will be undertaken to assess the candidate’s eligibility for the 
certification test.  The diagnostic test will be in two parts:  (i) auto-
diagnosis, where the candidate present past training and work experience, 
and demonstrates the ability to read and write through completing the 
required form; and (ii) diagnosis through application of a few strategic 
questions; 
 
c)  All candidates (or their employers, including government employers or 
other non-public entities) must pay 10% of the cost in advance, except in 
the case of registered unemployed and instructors under Part C.6 (b) or the 
Project who would be exempted.  In most cases, it would be expected that 
the employer would pay this cost.  Over time the percentage of the cost 
paid by the beneficiary could be increased, based upon the results of the 
willingness and ability to pay evaluation undertaken in late 1997; and 
 
d)  For any one module, a candidate can only receive the incentive once.  
However, a candidate could receive support for up to 8 modules as long as 
these formed part of a coherent career strategy. 
 
Page  50
50
ATTACHMENT IV 
 
Steering Committee and Project Administration Unit 
Terms of Reference 
 
Steering Committee 
 
1. The Steering Committee will be responsible for coordinating the execution of the 
project, and its functions will include: 
 
(a) 
Coordinating activities among the project’s distinct executing agencies; 
 
(b) Supervising and ensuring adequate execution of the project as agreed with the 
Bank; 
 
(c) Adjudicating on agreements within the project’s overall framework, and when 
necessary, seeking to defuse controversies and unify norms and criteria among 
executing agencies; 
 
(d) Informing concerned authorities about the project’s progress; and 
 
(e) Providing technical assistance to the Trust, within its capabilities. 
 
2. The Steering Committee will be composed of: 
 
(a) high ranking officials of SEP; 
 
(b) high ranking officials of STPS; 
 
(c) A representative of SHCP; 
 
(d) A representative of NAFIN; and 
 
(f)  The Secretary General of the Trust. 
 
Project Administration Unit 
 
3. 
The Project will be implemented in parallel by the Trust, SEP (CONALEP, CGUT, 
DGB, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA), and STPS.  STPS, 
which has extensive previous experience with Bank-financed training projects, already has 
the institutional capacity to integrate project-related activities into its normal functions and 
would not require additional administrative assistance.  For this reason, the PAU to be 
created under the project would be attached to SEP and facilitate its activities, particularly 
in regards to administrative and logistical support, particularly  for procurement, 
disbursement, auditing, and other legal/financial matters in a manner consistent with Bank 
guidelines.  The PAU’s services would be available to the Trust, if so requested, on a 
consultative basis.  At the project level, the PAU will also help maintain the dialogue 
between the Trust, SEP, and STPS to share experience and exchange lessons learned. 
Page  51
51
 
4. 
Staff Composition.  The PAU will be headed by a Director (General Coordinator), 
who will be responsible for:  (a) coordination and supervision of the SEP-managed parts 
of the project; (b) liaison between the Steering Committee and other institutions for 
coordination of project activities; (c) regular communication with NAFIN and Bank 
supervision staff, including preparation of periodic reports and organization of annual and 
mid-term implementation reviews, together with STPS project staff; (d) participation in 
the Steering Committee as the Technical Secretary; (e) participation in the Procurement 
Committee as a member; and (f) participation in the Technical Group of the project as a 
member. 
 
5. 
The Director will oversee six Coordinators and an Executive Coordinator whose 
duties are as follows: 
 
(a) 
Executive Coordinator.  The Executive Coordinator will: (i) assist the 
Director in supervising the activities of the PAU; (ii) propose agendas for 
the Steering Committee; (iii) propose the content and supervise the 
production of the Annual Report, as well as the Mid-Term and Final 
Reports; (iv) revise and finalize the minutes of Steering Committee 
meetings; (v) work with the other coordinators in developing and 
implementing a management information system; (vi) oversee the 
evaluation studies under component D2; (vii) submit terms of reference 
and proposals for evaluation studies; (viii) prepare the annual plan for both 
program and budget for the Executive Secretariat and for Component B; 
(ix) monitor and provide feedback to the Director regarding the status of 
project resources; and (x) act on the Director’s behalf when needed. 
 
(b) 
Administration and Financial Management.  The Coordinator, along with 
a
Finance Assistant, a Program and Budget Assistant, and a Technician, 
will be responsible for administrative and financial matters, including, 
inter alia:  (i) coordinating the administration, accounting, and planning of 
project activities; (ii) consolidating the yearly work review and plan for 
coming year; (iii) maintaining adequate records for Bank review (prior and 
ex-post), and sending audit reports to the Bank; (iv) generally assisting the 
SEP and other institutions in ensuring smooth and timely disbursement of 
project funds; (v) facilitating the budgeting and securing of counterpart 
funds; (vi) financial management, including disbursements, record 
keeping, and auditing; (vii) managing and advising on the use of human 
and financial resources of the PAU; (viii) contributing to project reports in 
collaboration with NAFIN, SHCP, STPS, SEP, and CNCCL; and (ix) 
coordinating the development and maintenance of the Project 
Implementation Manual in electronic format. 
 
(c) 
Procurement.  The Coordinator, along with a Legal Assistant and a 
Technician, will assist in the timely fulfillment of procurement activities 
in accordance with Bank and Government guidelines.  More specifically, 
the Coordinator's duties will include, inter alia:  (i) preparation of bidding 
and invitation packages, ensuring they conform with both the national 
Page  52
52
procurement laws and Bank requirements, and, in exceptional cases, 
concur with NAFIN on criteria for evaluation of bids and technical 
proposals; (ii) coordinate with Material Resources Department of SEP on 
the bidding processes to be followed by PAU, CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, 
DGECyTM, DGETA and DGETI
;
(iii) provide input as needed to SEP’s 
procurement committee; (iv) be a member of the Procurement Technical 
Committee and provide advice; and (v) supervise and maintain 
documentation pertaining to the procurement of goods and services. 
 
(d) 
Evaluation.  The Coordinator, along with an Evaluation Assistant, will be 
responsible for:  (i) coordinating the studies under component D2; (ii) 
integrating an evaluation committee; (iii) analyzing, preparing terms of 
reference for, and ensuring the quality of studies proposed by the 
evaluation committee; (iv) assuring a free flow of information regarding 
evaluation methodologies between the components and for the Technical 
Committee, including organizing seminars and workshops; (v) managing 
the Training Material Fund for the second phase of the project; (vi) 
providing technical assistance to training institutions for material 
development; (vii) preparing terms of reference for the development of the 
Fund’s operational manual and selection criteria; and (viii) evaluating the 
training material packages based on the operational manual.   
 
(e) 
Monitoring.  The coordinator, along with a Systems Assistant, a technician 
and a Recording Secretary, will be responsible for: (i) coordinating the 
development of monitoring information systems, overseeing its operation 
and managing the flow of information between Component B and the 
Steering Committee; (ii) contributing to the development of the MIS of the 
project; (iii) produce the Annual Report, Mid-Term Report, Final Report 
and the report on future operations of the project; (iv) supervising the 
production of interim progress reports; (v) coordinating Bank supervision 
missions; (vi) organizing Steering Committee meetings and producing the 
minutes; (vii) facilitating the interchange of experiences between the 
various implementing agencies and proposing recommendations to 
improve the Project’s operation; and (viii) providing technical assistance. 
 
(f) 
Planning.  The Coordinator, along with a Technical Assistant and an 
Administrative Assistant, will be responsible, in collaboration with the 
Project executing agencies, for integrating all pertinent information 
pertaining to the planning and programming of the Project, including, 
among others, the following activities:  (i) formulating desirable scenarios; 
(ii) establishing convergent strategies and structures for the future; (iii) 
establishing methodologies for strategic planning for all Project 
components; (iv) monitoring the implementation of the desirable scenario; 
(v) defining the lines of action resulting from the strategic plan for the 
Project; (vi) designing and carrying out the master plan for the Project; 
(vii) reporting on the progress of the implementation of the master plan; 
(viii) reporting on the discrepancies in meeting project targets, indicating 
Page  53
53
the reasons for such discrepancies; and (ix) proposing necessary corrective 
measures. 
 
6. 
Functions.  The PAU will help coordinate all operational activities and ensure that 
project implementation is carried out in accordance with the loan and guarantee 
agreements signed between the Government and the Bank.  It will also respond to the 
information needs of the Steering Committee, NAFIN, SHCP, the Bank, and other local 
authorities. 
 
7. 
More specific functions of the PAU, except as already specified under the duties 
of the Unit Coordinators, include: 
 
(a) 
Coordinating with, and assisting SEP's DGPPP in ensuring consistent and 
timely flow of funds through its annual investment programs, and 
monitoring and assisting as required STPS' and the Trust's work program 
under the project;  
 
(b) 
Developing and implementing training programs for project staff; 
 
(c) 
Providing technical, financial, and administrative assistance to 
implementation agencies through the Unit Coordinators and other staff; 
 
(d) 
Coordinating the activities of CONALEP, CGUT, DGB, DGCFT, 
DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA during the pilot phase 
through regular consultation, sharing of experiences, and a consistent 
framework for information exchange in order (i) to avoid duplication in the 
funding of equipment and the provision of training, and (ii) to seek 
complementarily; 
 
(e) 
Assisting staff in all components in the preparation of bidding packages, 
evaluations, reports, and other documentation needed for the procurement 
of goods and services and the hiring of consultants, particularly in 
resolving procurement and disbursement bottlenecks; 
 
(f) 
Monitoring and following up on actions taken by implementation agencies 
in all components; consolidating periodic progress reports for each 
component and the project as a whole in collaboration with STPS and the 
Trust counterparts through the use of a monitoring system to be developed 
and agreed with the Bank; 
 
(g) 
Monitoring the delivery and quality of products by consultants in 
accordance to the terms of their contracts; 
 
(h) 
Collecting, integrating, and maintaining audit and implementation reports 
and other project files from executing agencies and submitting them for 
review by Mexican authorities and the Bank in accordance with applicable 
agreed guidelines; 
 
Page  54
54
(i) 
Assisting in the preparation of annual budgets for each component, in 
collaboration with Trust and STPS counterparts, to ensure adequate 
counterpart funds as per the agreed annual work programs; 
 
(j) 
Assisting in all necessary arrangements to ensure availability of 
counterpart funds through NAFIN, including providing in an appropriate 
and timely manner all information requested by NAFIN to process 
disbursement applications and replenish the Special Account as per 
procedures agreed with the Bank; 
 
(k) 
Carrying out, together with NAFIN and representatives of executing 
agencies, annual implementation reviews with the Bank; agreeing on an 
action plan for project improvement and causing it to be carried out; 
 
(l) 
Preparing terms of reference for the Mid-Term Review, together with STPS 
and the Trust staff, to occur in September 1998, and presenting them to the 
Bank by June 30, 1998; conducting the Mid-Term Review, together with 
SEP, STPS, the Trust, NAFIN, SHCP, and the Bank, agreeing on an action 
plan for project improvement and causing it to be carried out; and 
 
(m) 
Preparing the Implementation Completion Report with the executing 
agencies. 
 
