Page  1
March 26, 2001
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Mr. Alonso García Tamés
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100  México, D.F.
México 
Re:
Loan 3805-ME (Technical Education and Training Modernization 
Project) Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and 
to the Implementation Letter
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and to 
the Implementation Letter, all dated February 7, 1995, as amended, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said 
Loan Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter as indicated below.
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CEA" means an individual or public sector or private sector institution 
or enterprise validly accredited by an OC (as hereinafter defined) to operate as an 
Accredited Testing Center (Centro de Evaluación Acreditado) and thus test and certify 
competency level attainment of individuals pursuant to Part A.2 of the Project;
(b) 
"CIMO" means STPS’ (as hereinafter defined) Multiple Support Service 
Program to MSMEs (as hereinafter defined) (Programa de Calidad Integral y 
Modernización);
(c)
 "CONALEP" means the Guarantor’s National Professional Technical 
Education School (Colegio Nacional de Educación Profesional Técnica);
(d)
"CGUT" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Coordinating Entity 
for Technological Universities (Coordinación General de Universidades Técnologicas);
(e)
"DGCFT" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of Job 
Formation Centers (Dirección General de Centros de Formación para el Trabajo);
(f)
"DGECyTM" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Education, Science and Marine Technology (Dirección General de Ciencia y Tecnología 
del Mar); 
(g)
"DGETA" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Agricultue and livestock Technological Education (Dirección General de Educación 
Tecnológica Agropecuaria);
(h)
"DGETI" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) General Directorate of 
Techno - Industrial Education (Dirección General de Educación Tecnológica Industiral);
Page  2
(i)
"ECOSUR" means the Guarantor’s Southern Border School (Colegio de la 
Frontera Sur);
(j)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter alia, the schedule and targets referred to in 
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(k)
"INEA" means SEP’s National Institute for Adult Education (Instituto 
Nacional para la Educación de los Adultos).".
(l)
"MSMEs" means private enterprises having as few as one and no more than 
500 employees;
(m)
"OC" means a private sector institution or enterprise validly licensed by 
the Trust (as hereinafter defined) to operate as a Certification Agency (Organismo de 
Certificación) and thus accredit CEAs or itself operate as a CEA; 
(n)
"PAU" means SEP’s (as hereinafter defined) Project Administration Unit 
referred to in Section 3.18 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(o)
"PROBECAT" means STPS’ (as hereinafter defined) Labor Retraining Program 
(Programa de Becas de Capacitación para Trabajadores);
(p)
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee (comité directivo) 
referred to in Section 3.18 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(q)
"SEP" means the Guarantor's Public Education Secretariat (Secretaría de 
Educación Pública);
(r)
"SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance and Public Credit Secretariat (
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público);
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(t)
"STPS" means the Guarantor’s Labor and Social Welfare Secretariat (
Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social);
(u)
"Trust" means the Trust in Support of the System of Occupational 
Standards (Fideicomiso de los Sistemas Normalizado de Competencia Laboral y de 
Certificación de Competencia Laboral) established pursuant to the Trust Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); and
(v)
"Trust Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between 
the Guarantor and the Borrower establishing the Trust.
2.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date."
3.
Section 4.01, paragraph (a) is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project (such records and separate accounts to include, inter alia, records and 
separate accounts with respect to the operation of the Trust under Parts A, C.1 and 
D.1 of the Project)."
4.
Schedule 1:
(a)
the table in paragraph 1 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as set forth in Annex 1 to this letter;
(b)
paragraph 2 (a) is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"(a)
the term ‘incremental operating costs’ means:  (i) Trust, PAU, STPS and OC 
operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been incurred absent 
Page  3
the Project, and as part of such operational costs includes salaries only for staff of 
the PAU and STPS referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
(ii) CONALEP, CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA operational, 
maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been incurred absent the Project, 
but as part of such operational costs does not include any salaries; and (iii) SEP 
costs, that would not have been incurred absent the Project, for operation of public 
sector CEAs under Part A.2 (a) of the Project;".
Page  4
5.
Schedule 2: 
(a)
Parts A, B and C are hereby amended and replaced to read in their 
entirety as follows:
"Part A:
National System of Competency Standards; Skills Testing and 
Certification System
1.
(a)
Development of national competency standards that individuals must meet 
in order to be certified as competent to perform occupational functions; and (b) 
institutional strengthening of the Trust by means of which such development shall be 
carried out, by providing it with financing for its staff (including the staff of the 
competency committees referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iv) of the Guarantee Agreement) 
training and technical assistance needs and for its equipment, materials, copyright 
license acquisition and incremental operating costs associated with the performance of 
its role under the Project, as well as for civil works required to refurbish the 
headquarters of its technical committee referred to in section 3.06 (b) of the 
Guarantee Agreement.
2.
(a)
Development and operation, through a network of OCs and CEAs, of a 
national testing and certification program to measure and certify the attainment by 
individuals of the skill levels specified by the competency standards developed under 
Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision to such OCs and CEAs of grants for 
their staff training and technical assistance needs and for their start-up, testing 
material development and (in the case of OCs only) incremental operating costs 
associated with the performance of their certification and accreditation roles under 
the Project.
Part B:
Modernization of Training Programs
1.
Development and implementation by CONALEP, CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, 
ECOSUR and INEA networks (on a pilot basis and with redesigned curricula and 
instructional materials, trained instructors and upgraded equipment) of new 
competency-based training modules.
2.
Development and implementation (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in 
Part B.1 of the Project) by public and private training institutions of new curricula, 
new training materials (which materials shall remain in the public domain) and new 
modalities to train instructors, all in support of modular courses designed to teach 
the skills necessary to meet the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of 
the Project.
Part C:
Stimulation of Demand for Competency-based Training and Certification
1.
Public promotion, through conferences, media presentations, publicity campaigns 
and the dissemination of promotional materials, of:  (a) the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; (b) the national testing and 
certification program developed under Part A.2 of the Project; (c) the new training 
modules and courses developed under Part B of the Project; and (d) the PROBECAT 
training program referred to in Part C.4 of the Project.".
2.
Provision, on a pilot basis, of grants to Mexican private sector enterprises in 
priority productive sectors to develop and implement competency-based training 
programs for their workers and to assess trainee attainment of competencies through 
such programs.
3.
Provision to MSMEs, as part of CIMO, of grants: (a) to obtain technical 
assistance for their preparation of training programs for their workers which are 
based on the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) 
to implement such training programs.
4.
(a)
Training, as part of PROBECAT, of trainees (referred to in Section 3.13 
(a) of the Guarantee Agreement) through programs which are based on the competency 
standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision of stipends 
to the trainees covered by subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.
5.
Provision of grants to cover a portion of the fees charged by OCs and CEAs to 
individuals for taking the tests (developed under Part A.2 of the Project) required to 
obtain certification of competencies.
6.
(a)
Provision of equipment (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in Part 
Page  5
B.1 of the Project) to public and private training institutions in support of modular 
courses designed to teach the skills necessary to meet the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) training and certification of 
instructors (subsequent to the pilot phase referred to in Part B.1 of the Project) of 
said training institutions in support of modular courses designed to teach the skills 
necessary to meet the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project."
(b)
the last sentence in Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the date 
"March 31, 2000" with the date "December 31, 2002".
6.
Schedule 4, paragraph 1 (a) is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (15) and (1) through (13) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;"
II.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
7.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, 
financial, technical and administrative standards and practices, as well as in 
accordance with the annually adjustable implementation schedule and targets set forth 
in the Implementation Letter:
(a)
cause Parts A and D.1 of the Project to be carried out by means of the 
Trust (except that SEP shall support the operation of public sector CEAs under Part 
A.2 (a) of the Project);
(b)
cause CONALEP to carry out those portions of Part B.1 of the Project 
which are not assigned to CGUT, DGCFT, DGECTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA networks;
(c)
carry out Parts B.2 and D.2 of the Project, and those portions of Part 
B.1 of the Project assigned to the CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA 
networks, through SEP;
(d)
(i) carry out Part C.1 of the Project through STPS and SEP, and/or cause 
Part C.1 of the Project to be carried out by means of the Trust; and (ii) carry out 
Parts C.2 through C.6 of the Project and Part D.3 of the Project through STPS; and
(e)
carry out Part D.4 of the Project through the PAU and the Project 
Steering Committee.
8.
Section 3.05, paragraphs (a) and (c) are hereby amended and replaced to read in 
their entirety as follows:
"Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall (through STPS with respect to Parts C.2 
through C.6 of the Project, Part D.3 of the Project and STPS’ execution of Part C.1 of 
the Project, and through SEP with respect to Parts B, D.2 and D.4 of the Project and 
SEP’s execution of Part C.1 of the Project) maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project."
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be mantained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals."
9.
Section 3.06 (b) is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"(b)
The Trust Agreement shall include terms whereby, inter alia:
(i)
a technical committee, with a membership the majority of which is 
made up of non-government productive sector representatives, is 
created for the Trust to set general policies for the Trust which 
are consistent with the terms of the Trust Agreement;
(ii)
said technical committee shall, no later than eight months after 
the date of the Trust Agreement, issue internal operational rules 
and procedures for the Trust which are consistent with the terms 
of the Trust Agreement;
(iii)
said technical committee shall establish a technical secretariat 
for the Trust to implement the general policies set by the 
technical committee and shall name such technical secretariat’s 
Secretary General; and
(iv)
competency committees shall be created, each composed of private 
sector employers and employees representing a particular 
industrial sector or occupational cluster, within the structure of 
the Trust to assist in developing the national competency 
standards referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the Project."
10.
Section 3.07 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.07. The Guarantor, through the CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, 
ECOSUR and INEA networks (including private training institutions associated with such 
networks), shall carry out (and the Guarantor shall cause CONALEP to carry out) Part 
B.1 of the Project based on competency standards other than, and prior to the 
development of, the national competency standards referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project. The Guarantor shall distribute responsibilities for carrying out Part B.1 of 
the Project between CONALEP and the CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and 
INEA networks."
11.
Section 3.08 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.08. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall by no later than September 30, 
1997 issue guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of SEP support to 
assist training institutions in developing and implementing the new curricula, new 
training materials and new modalities to train instructors referred to in Part B.2 of 
the Project. The provision of any SEP support to such institutions under Part B.2 of 
the Project shall be governed by the terms of such guidelines. Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of 
such guidelines."
12.
Section 3.09 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.09. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall carry out the studies referred 
to in Part D.2 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The 
Guarantor, through SEP, shall by June 30, 2002 furnish to the Bank for comments a 
consultant proposal for carrying out the study referred to in Part D.2 (c) of the 
Project."
13.
Section 3.12 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.12. With regard to Part C.3 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
STPS, shall support MSMEs through a cost-sharing scheme whereby: (a) with regard to 
the implementation of training under Part C.3 (b) of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
ensure that the percentage of costs borne by MSMEs shall throughout the course of 
Project implementation equal 40%; (b) with regard to technical assistance under Part 
C.3 (a) of the Project, the Guarantor shall ensure that the percentage of costs borne 
Page  7
by MSMEs shall throughout the course of Project implementation equal 40%; and (c) 
MSMEs shall receive the remaining percentage of costs from the Guarantor not as 
advances made by the Guarantor, but only as reimbursements made by the Guarantor for 
training implementation and technical assistance costs already incurred by the MSMEs."
14.
Section 3.14 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.14. With regard to Part C.5 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
STPS (with the assistance of CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA) and 
according to guidelines satisfactory to the Bank which shall include criteria (set 
forth in Attachment III (3) of the Implementation Letter) for determining which 
individuals are eligible for certification fee relief, shall reimburse OCs and CEAs: 
(a) for 100% of the fee not paid by or on behalf of an eligible unemployed test taker 
or of an instructor referred to in Part C.6 (b) of the Project; and (b) for 90% of the 
fee (if the test is taken before 2001), 70% of the fee (if the test is taken during 
2001) or 50% of the fee (if the test is taken during 2002) in the case of an eligible 
employed test taker for whom the remainder of the fee has been paid at least in part 
by the test taker, his employer (including government employer) or any other 
non-public entity.
15.
Section 3.18 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.18. (a) The Guarantor shall set overall Project implementation 
coordination policy through the Project Steering Committee which shall operate 
throughout the course of Project implementation and shall be composed of: (i) 
higher-level SEP representatives; (ii) higher-level STPS representatives; (iii) the 
Trust’s Secretary General referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; 
(iv) a representative from SHCP; and (v) a representative of the Borrower.
(b)
The Guarantor shall coordinate implementation of Parts B and D.2 of the Project 
through the PAU which shall operate throughout the course of Project implementation 
according to terms of reference referred to in Attachment IV of the Implementation 
Letter, as well as according to operational rules and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank, and shall be staffed on a full-time basis by a General Coordinator, six other 
Coordinators (one executive coordinator, one for administration and financial 
management, one for procurement, one for monitoring, one for evaluation and one for 
planning) and no more than twenty-one additional technical and six additional support 
staff.  Additionally, the Bank and the Borrower may, from time to time,  agree on a 
different number of staff in an amount, and with functions, experience, 
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank."
16.
Section 3.19 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.19. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor 
shall, through PAU, furnish to the Bank, by no later than 30 days prior to each annual 
review referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section (beginning in 1995), an annual 
progress report, in form satisfactory to the Bank, on implementation of the Project 
(as well as a proposed budget and plan for Project implementation for the immediately 
subsequent fiscal year).  The Guarantor shall cause the Trust, CONALEP and ECOSUR to 
provide PAU with all relevant information in their possession for purposes of 
preparing said reports.
(b)
The Guarantor, through SEP, STPS and SHCP, shall participate, and shall 
cause the Trust, CONALEP and ECOSUR to participate, in annual reviews of Project 
implementation to be held in conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower during the 
second half of each month of November during Project implementation, beginning in 
1995. Each such review shall, based inter alia on the reports and proposed plans and 
budgets referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i)
examine the status of Project implementation; and
(ii)
result in the preparation by the Guarantor, no later than each 
immediately subsequent January 15, of an annual action plan for 
the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out or caused 
to be carried out by the Guarantor during the immediately 
subsequent fiscal year, each such action plan to contain, inter 
alia, the annual adjustment to implementation schedules and 
targets referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Page  8
(c)
Except as provided in Attachment II of the Implementation Letter, the 
Guarantor, through STPS, SEP and SHCP, shall participate, and shall cause the Trust 
and CONALEP to participate, in a midterm review of Project implementation to be held 
in conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower in September 1998.  Such midterm review 
shall be carried out under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
be presented by the Guarantor to the Bank by no later than November 30, 1997."
17.
Schedule:
(a)
section 1, the title is hereby amended and replaced to read it its 
entirety as follows:
"Section I.
Procurement of Goods, Works, Certain Training Materials and Printing 
Services"
(b)
Part A paragraph 1 and 2 are hereby amended and replaced to read in their 
entirety as follows:
"1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods, non-copyrighted 
training materials (which are readily available from numerous international suppliers) 
and printing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, 
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D of this Section, the Bank’s prior approval 
will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of 
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid 
validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods, training materials and printing services in 
accordance with Part A of this Section, the relevant standard bidding documents issued 
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project, shall be used.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, training materials and printing 
services shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more each."
(b)
Part C 1 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"1.
(a)
Goods (other than training materials covered by paragraphs 2, 4 or 
5 of this Part C) and printing services (for non-copyrighted, including promotional, 
materials) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000 in the case of such 
goods and $14,400,000 in the case of such printing services, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement shall take place 
using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Civil works for Part A. 1 (b) of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  Such procurement shall take 
place using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank."
(c)
Section II is hereby amended to read in their entirety as follows:
"Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Guarantor and/or any other Project-executing 
entities in carrying out the Project, the Guarantor shall employ and/or cause such 
Page  9
entities to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based 
assignments, such consultants shall be employed under contracts using the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section:
(i) the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, 
or to contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) 
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) 
amendments of contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
above or for individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or above; (e) 
amendments of contracts for consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above or for individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; and
(ii) all invitation of consulting firms to present proposals for contracts 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or above per contract, shall be advertised in 
the United Nations’ magazine Development Business and the short lists of consulting 
firms to present proposals for contracts estimated to cost less than $200 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines."
III.
Amendments to the Implementation Letter
18.
The Project Administration Unit section of Attachment IV to the Implementation 
Letter is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"Project Administration Unit
3.
The project will be implemented in parallel by the Trust, SEP (CONALEP, CGUT, 
DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA), and STPS.  STPS, which has extensive 
previous experience with Bank-financed training projects, already has the 
institutional capacity to integrate project-related activities into its normal 
functions and would not require additional administrative assistance.  For this 
reason, the PAU to be created under the project would be attached to SEP and 
facilitate its activities, particularly in regards to administrative and logistical  
support, particularly for procurement, disbursement, auditing, and other 
legal/financial matters in a manner consistent with Bank guidelines.  The PAU's 
services would be available to the Trust, if so requested, on a consultative basis.  
At the project level, the PAU will also help maintain the dialogue between the Trust, 
SEP, and STPS to share experience and exchange lessons learned.
4.
Staff Composition.  The PAU will be headed by a Director (General Coordinator), 
who will be responsible for:  (a) coordination and supervision of the SEP-managed 
parts of the project; (b) liaison between the Steering Committee and other 
institutions for coordination of project activities; (c) regular communication with 
NAFIN and Bank supervision staff, including preparation of periodic reports and 
organization of annual and mid-term implementation reviews, together with STPS project 
staff; (d) participation in the Steering Committee as the Technical Secretary; (e) 
participation in the Procurement Committee as a member; and (f) participation in the 
Technical Group of the project as a member.
5.
The Director will oversee six Coordinators and an Executive Coordinator whose 
duties are as follows:
(a)
Executive Coordinator.  The Executive Coordinator will: (i) assist the 
Director in supervising the activities of the PAU; (ii) propose agendas 
for the Steering Committee; (iii) propose the content and supervise the 
production of the Annual Report, as well as the Mid-Term and Final 
Reports; (iv) revise and finalize the minutes of Steering Committee 
Page  10
meetings; (v) work with the other coordinators in developing and 
implementing a management information system; (vi) oversee the evaluation 
studies under component D2; (vii) submit terms of reference and proposals 
for evaluation studies; (viii) prepare the annual plan for both program 
and budget for the Executive Secretariat and for Component B; (ix) 
monitor and provide feedback to the Director regarding the status of 
project resources; and (x) act on the Director’s behalf when needed.
(b)
Administration and Financial Management.  The Coordinator, along with a 
Finance Assistant, a Program and Budget Assistant, and a Technician, will 
be responsible for administrative and financial matters, including, inter 
alia:  (i) coordinating the administration, accounting, and planning of 
project activities; (ii) consolidating the yearly work review and plan 
for coming year; (iii) maintaining adequate records for Bank review 
(prior and ex-post), and sending audit reports to the Bank; (iv) 
generally assisting the SEP and other institutions in ensuring smooth and 
timely disbursement of project funds; (v) facilitating the budgeting and 
securing of counterpart funds; (vi) financial management, including 
disbursements, record keeping, and auditing; (vii) managing and advising 
on the use of human and financial resources of the PAU; (viii) 
contributing to project reports in collaboration with NAFIN, SHCP, STPS, 
SEP, and CNCCL; and (ix) coordinating the development and maintenance of 
the Project Implementation Manual in electronic format.
(c)
Procurement.  The Coordinator, along with a Legal Assistant and a 
Technician, will assist in the timely fulfillment of procurement 
activities in accordance with Bank and Government guidelines.  More 
specifically, the Coordinator's duties will include, inter alia:  (i) 
preparation of bidding and invitation packages, ensuring they conform 
with both the national procurement laws and Bank requirements, and, in 
exceptional cases, concur with NAFIN on criteria for evaluation of bids 
and technical proposals; (ii) coordinate with Material Resources 
Department of SEP on the bidding processes to be followed by PAU, DGETI, 
DGETA, UECyTM, DGCFT and ECOSUR; (iii) provide input as needed to SEP’s 
procurement committee; (iv) be a member of the Procurement Technical 
Committee and provide advice; and (v) supervise and maintain 
documentation pertaining to the procurement of goods and services.
(d)
Evaluation.  The Coordinator, along with an Evaluation Assistant, will be 
responsible for:  (i) coordinating the evaluation studies under component 
D2; (ii) integrating an evaluation committee; (iii) analyzing, preparing 
terms of reference for, and ensuring the quality of studies proposed by 
the evaluation committee; (iv) assuring a free flow of information 
regarding evaluation methodologies between the components and for the 
Technical Committee, including organizing seminars and workshops; (v) 
managing the Training Material Fund for the second phase of the project; 
(vi) providing technical assistance to training institutions for material 
development; (vii) preparing terms of reference for the development of 
the Fund’s operational manual and selection criteria; and (viii) 
evaluating the training material packages based on the operational 
manual.  
(e)
Monitoring.  The coordinator, along with a Systems Assistant, a 
technician and a Recording Secretary, will be responsible for: (i) 
coordinating the development of monitoring information systems, 
overseeing its operation and managing the flow of information between 
Component B and the Steering Committee; (ii) contributing to the 
development of the MIS of the project; (iii) produce the Annual Report, 
Mid-Term Report, Final Report and the report on future operations of the 
project; (iv) supervising the production of interim progress reports; (v) 
coordinating Bank supervision missions; (vi) organizing Steering 
Committee meetings and producing the minutes; (vii) facilitating the 
interchange of experiences between the various implementing agencies and 
proposing recommendations to improve the Project’s operation; and (viii) 
providing technical assistance.
(f)
Planning.  The Coordinator, along with a Technical Assistant and an 
Administrative Assistant, will be responsible, in collaboration with the 
Project executing agencies, for integrating all pertinent information 
pertaining to the planning and programming of the Project, including, 
among others, the following activities:  (i) formulating desirable 
scenarios; (ii) establishing convergent strategies and structures for the 
Page  11
future; (iii) establishing methodologies for strategic planning for all 
Project components; (iv) monitoring the implementation of the desirable 
scenario; (v) defining the lines of action resulting from the strategic 
plan for the Project; (vi) designing and carrying out the master plan for 
the Project; (vii) reporting on the progress of the implementation of the 
master plan; (viii) reporting on the discrepancies in meeting project 
targets, indicating the reasons for such discrepancies; and (ix) 
proposing necessary corrective measures.
6.
Functions.  The PAU will help coordinate all operational activities and ensure 
that project implementation is carried out in accordance with the loan and guarantee 
agreements signed between the Government and the Bank.  It will also respond to the 
information needs of the Steering Committee, NAFIN, SHCP, the Bank, and other local 
authorities.
7.
More specific functions of the PAU, except as already specified under the duties 
of the Unit Coordinators, include:
(a)
Coordinating with, and assisting SEP's DGPPP in ensuring consistent and 
timely flow of funds through its annual investment programs, and 
monitoring and assisting as required STPS' and the Trust's work program 
under the project; 
(b)
Developing and implementing training programs for project staff;
(c)
Providing technical, financial, and administrative assistance to 
implementation agencies through the Unit Coordinators and other staff;
(d)
Coordinating the activities of CONALEP, CGUT, DGCFT, DGECyTM, DGETA, 
DGETI, ECOSUR and INEA during the pilot phase through regular 
consultation, sharing of experiences, and a consistent framework for 
information exchange in order (i) to avoid duplication in the funding of 
equipment and the provision of training, and (ii) to seek 
complementarity;
(e)
Assisting staff in all components in the preparation of bidding packages, 
evaluations, reports, and other documentation needed for the procurement 
of goods and services and the hiring of consultants, particularly in 
resolving procurement and disbursement bottlenecks;
(f)
Monitoring and following up on actions taken by implementation agencies 
in all components; consolidating periodic progress reports for each 
component and the project as a whole in collaboration with STPS and the 
Trust counterparts through the use of a monitoring system to be developed 
and agreed with the Bank;
(g)
Monitoring the delivery and quality of products by consultants in 
accordance to the terms of their contracts;
(h)
Collecting, integrating, and maintaining audit and implementation reports 
and other project files from executing agencies and submitting them for 
review by Mexican authorities and the Bank in accordance with applicable 
agreed guidelines;
(i)
Assisting in the preparation of annual budgets for each component, in 
collaboration with Trust and STPS counterparts, to ensure adequate 
counterpart funds as per the agreed annual work programs;
(j)
Assisting in all necessary arrangements to ensure availability of 
counterpart funds through NAFIN, including providing in an appropriate 
and timely manner all information requested by NAFIN to process 
disbursement applications and replenish the Special Account as per 
procedures agreed with the Bank;
(k)
Carrying out, together with NAFIN and representatives of executing 
agencies, annual implementation reviews with the Bank; agreeing on an 
action plan for project improvement and causing it to be carried out;
(l)
Preparing terms of reference for the Mid-Term Review, together with STPS 
and the Trust staff, to occur in November 1996, and presenting them to 
the Bank by July 31, 1996; conducting the Mid-Term Review, together with 
Page  12
SEP, STPS, the Trust, NAFIN, SHCP, and the Bank, agreeing on an action 
plan for project improvement and causing it to be carried out; and
(m)
Preparing the Implementation Completion Report with the executing 
agencies."
Page  13
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of December 7, 2000 upon receipt by the 
Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director
Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 26, 2001
Date:
March 26, 2001
ANNEX
Amount of
the Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
To be Financed
1.
Goods and equipment
95%
(other than as covered by
Categories 2, 4 and 7-9
and 11-13 below)
(a)
with regard to Part A
2,900,000
of the Project
(b)
with regard to Parts B
57,500,000
and D.4 of the Project
`
(c)
with regard to Part C
3,600,000
of the Project
2.
Training materials and
7,800,000
50%
printing and reproduction of
such materials with regard to
Parts A and B of the Project
(other than as covered by
Categories 4 and 11 below)
3.
Consultant’s services (other
100%
than as covered by
Categories 7, 8, 10 and 12
below):
(a)
with regard to Parts
20,400,000
A and D.1 of the 
Project
(b)
with regard to Parts
30,800,000
B, D.2 and D.4 of the
Project
(c)
with regard to Parts
8,300,000
C and D.3 of the
Project
Page  14
4.
Incremental operating costs:
(a)
with regard to Part A
21,500,000
75% until withdrawals
of the Project
under this Category 
have reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$3,700,000; 50% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached
an aggregate amount
equivalent to $20,400,000;
and 30% thereafter
(b)
with regard to Parts B
14,300,000
75% until withdrawals under
and D.4 of the Project
this Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $7,000,000; 50% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $13,400,000; and 30%
thereafter
(c)
with regard to Part C
2,600,000
75% until withdrawals under
of the Project
this Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $2,000,000; 50% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $2,400,000; and 30%
thereafter
5.
Stipends
17,600,000
50% until withdrawals under
this Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $16,000,000; and 30%
thereafter
6.
Certification support (other
14,000,000
90% until withdrawals under
than as covered by Category
this Category have reached an
13 below)
aggregate amount equivalent
to $7,000,000; 70% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent
to $13,400,000; and 50%
thereafter
7.
Training and technical
3,300,000
100% of amounts paid by
assistance with regard
STP pursuant to Section 3.11
to Parts C.2 and C.3
and 3.12 of the Guarantee
 
of the  Project (other
Agreement
than as covered by
Categories 8-10 below)
8.
Training of MSME workers
0
60%
and technical assistance to
MSMEs under Part C.3 of
the Project (but only for
MSMEs with 15 or fewer
employees each)
9.
Training of MSME workers
0
60%
under Part C.3 of the Project
(but only with respect to
MSMEs with 16 or more
employees each)
10.
Technical assistance to
0
60%
MSMEs under Part C.3 of
the Project (but only with
Page  15
respect to MSMEs with 16
or more employees each)
11.
Training under Parts B and
23,200,000
100%
C.4 (a) of the Project
12.
Publicity activities under
5,500,000
100%
Part C.1 of the Project
13.
Training of instructors under
1,000,000
100%
Part C.6 (b) of the Project
and certification support for
such instructors
14.
Unallocated
0
15.
Civil works with regard to
700,000
70%
Part A.1 (b) of the Project
Amount cancelled as of
30,000,000
July 14, 1995
TOTAL
265,000,000
