Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3805 ME
                              Loan Agreement
         (Technical Education and Training Modernization Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                          Dated February 7, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3805 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "CEA" means an individual or private sector
institution or enterprise validly accredited by an OC (as
hereinafter defined) to operate as an Accredited Testing Center
(Centro de Evaluacion Acreditado) and thus test and certify
competency level attainment of individuals pursuant to Part A.2
of the Project;
      (b)    "CECATI" means a SEP (as hereinafter defined)
Training Center for Industrial Skills (Centro de Capacitacion
para el Trabajo Industrial);
      (c)    "CETIS" means a SEP (as hereinafter defined) Center
for Technical Studies in Industry and Services (Centro de
Estudios Tecnologicos Industrial y de Servicios);
      (d)   "CIMO" means STPS' (as hereinafter defined) Multiple
Support Service Program to MSMEs (as hereinafter defined)
(Programa de Calidad Integral y Modernizacion);
      (e)    "CONALEP" means the Guarantor's National
Professional Technical Education School (Colegio Nacional de
Educacion Profesional Tecnica);
      (f)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter
alia, the schedule and targets referred to in Section 3.01 of
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (g)   "MSMEs" means private enterprises having as few as
one and no more than 250 employees;
      (h)   "OC" means a private sector institution or enterprise
validly licensed by the Trust (as hereinafter defined) to
operate as a Certification Agency (Organismo de Certificacion)
and thus accredit CEAs or itself operate as a CEA;
      (i)   "PAU" means SEP's (as hereinafter defined) Project
Administration Unit referred to in Section 3.18 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (j)   "PROBECAT" means STPS' (as hereinafter defined) Labor
Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitacion para
Trabajadores);
      (k)   "Project Steering Committee" means the committee
(comite directivo) referred to in Section 3.18 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (l)   "SEP" means the Guarantor's Public Education
Page  3
Secretariat (Secretaria de Educacion Publica);
      (m)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance and Public
Credit Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "STPS" means the Guarantor's Labor and Social Welfare
Secretariat (Secretaria del Trabajo y Prevision Social);
      (p)   "Trust" means the Trust in Support of the System of
Occupational Standards (Fideicomiso de los Sistemas Normalizado
de Competencia Laboral y de Certificacion de Competencia
Laboral) established pursuant to the Trust Agreement (as
hereinafter defined); and
      (q)   "Trust Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Guarantor and the Borrower
establishing the Trust.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two hundred sixty-five
million Dollars ($265,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
Page  4
such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."
            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
      Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply
with the terms of, contractual arrangements with the Guarantor,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (a) the
transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use
by the Guarantor, CONALEP and the Trust; and (b) the transfer
by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower
shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal,
interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The
Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of
Page  5
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be
carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
and midterm reviews referred to in Section 3.19 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply
with the terms of, the Trust Agreement. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of the Trust Agreement. The Borrower
shall exercise its rights under the Trust Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project (such records and separate accounts to include,
inter alia, records and separate accounts with respect to the
operation of the Trust under Parts A and D.1 of the Project).
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent
                  and qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested;
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified
                  statements of the Special Account; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the
Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor
to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05
of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Page  6
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Trust or for the suspension of the
operations of the Trust; and
      (b)   that the Trust's internal operational rules and
procedures referred to in Section 3.06 of the Guarantee
Agreement: (i) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the ability of the Guarantor to have
Parts A and D.1 of the Project carried out by means of the
Trust in a manner consistent with the terms of the Guarantee
Agreement; or (ii) shall not have been applied in accordance
with their terms.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Trust Agreement shall have been entered into;
      (b)   that the Project Steering Committee shall have been
established with the membership set forth in Section 3.18 (a)
of the Guarantee Agreement; and
      (c)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been entered into.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that, on behalf of each of the Borrower and the
Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified,
and executed and delivered, by the Borrower and the Guarantor
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in
accordance with the terms of such contractual arrangements; and
      (b)   that, on behalf of each of the parties to the Trust
Agreement, the Trust Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered by each such party and
is legally binding upon each such party in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date May 8, 1995 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Torre IV, piso 8
            Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  NAFIN                           NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City                     Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico
City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/  Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By /s/  Gilberto Borja Navarrete
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated           % of
                                (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Goods and equip-                                95%
Page  8
    ment (other than
    as covered by
    Categories 2, 4,
    7-9 and 11-13
    below):
    (a) with regard                200,000
        to Part A of
        the Project
    (b) with regard to          60,000,000
        Part B of the
        Project
    (c) with regard to          28,500,000
        Part C of the
        Project
(2) Training materials           25,400,000        50%
    and printing and
    reproduction of
    such materials with
    regard to Parts A and
    B of the Project
    (other than as
    covered by Categories
    4, 7-9 and 11-13 below)
(3) Consultant services                            100%
    (other than as
    covered by Categories
    7, 8 and 10 below):
    (a) with regard to           3,500,000
        Parts A and D.1
        of the Project
    (b) with regard to          34,500,000
        Parts B and D.2
        of the Project
    (c) with regard to           1,000,000
        Parts C and D.3
        of the Project
(4) Incremental operating
    costs:
    (a) with regard to            7,100,000         75% until with-
        Part A of the                               drawals under
        Project                                     this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $3,700,000; 50%
                                                    until with-
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $6,100,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
    (b) with regard to            5,000,000         75% until with-
        Parts B and D.4                             drawals under
        of the Project                              this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $2,500,000; 50%
                                                    until with-
Page  9
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $4,000,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
    (c) with regard to             4,800,000        75% until with-
        Part C of the                               drawals under
        Project                                     this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $2,400,000; 50%
                                                    until with-
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $4,000,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
(5) Stipends                      15,400,000        50% until with-
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached
                                                    an aggregate
                                                    amount equi-
                                                    valent to
                                                    $9,000,000; and
                                                    25% thereafter
(6) Certification                  9,000,000        90% until with-
    support (other                                  drawals under
    than as covered                                 this Category
    by Category 13                                  have reached an
    below)                                          aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $3,800,000; 70%
                                                    until with-
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    $8,600,000; and
                                                    50% thereafter
(7) Training and                   15,500,000       60%
    technical
    assistance with
    regard to Part
    C.2 of the
    Project
(8) Training of MSME                4,400,000        70%
    workers and technical
    assistance to MSMEs
    under Part C.3 of
    the Project (but only
    for MSMEs with 15
    or fewer employees
    each)
(9) Training of MSME                5,500,000         35%
    workers under Part
    C.3 of the Project
    (but only with respect
    to MSMEs with 16 or
    more employees each)
Page  10
(10) Technical assistance           2,500,000         60%
     to MSMEs under Part
     C.3 of the Project
     (but only with respect
     to MSMEs with 16 or
     more employees each)
(11) Training under                11,900,000         100%
     Part C.4 (a)
     of the Project
(12) Publicity                      6,200,000         100%
     activities under
     Part C.1 of
     the Project
(13) Training of                    7,200,000         100%
     instructors under
     Part C.6 (b) of
     the Project and
     certification support
     for such instructors
(14) Unallocated                   17,400,000
                                   __________
        TOTAL                     265,000,000
                                  ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "incremental operating costs" means Trust,
PAU, STPS and OC operational, maintenance and travel costs,
that would not have been incurred absent the Project, and as
part of such operational costs includes salaries only for staff
of the PAU, STPS and of the Trust technical secretariat
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of the Guarantee
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "stipends" means stipends referred to in Part
C.4 (b) of the Project;
    (c)   the term "certification support" means the grants
referred to in Part C.5 of the Project; and
    (d)   the term "training" may include goods, equipment and
materials used exclusively for instructional purposes.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (3) and (4) (b) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 28, 1994;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures covered by Categories
(1) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a) until: (i) the Trust (including
its technical secretariat referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii)
of the Guarantee Agreement) shall have been staffed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the Trustþs internal
operational rules and procedures (referred to in Section 3.06
(b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have come into effect; and
    (c)   payments made for expenditures covered by Categories
(1) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) until the PAU shall have been
established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.18 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Page  11
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
not subject to contract (such as, for example, stipends under
Category (5) and certification support under Categories (6) and
(13)) and for other expenditures (other than for goods,
materials and equipment contracts exceeding $350,000 equivalent
per contract, for contracts with individual consultants
exceeding or equal to $50,000 equivalent per contract and for
contracts with consulting firms exceeding or equal to $100,000
equivalent per contract) under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of
the technical education and training system in Mexico so as to
meet the critical needs of the countryþs productive sector in
a flexible manner.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   National System of Competency Standards; Skills Testing
          and Certification System
1.  (a)   Development of national competency standards that
individuals must meet in order to be certified as competent to
perform occupational functions; and (b) institutional
strengthening of the Trust by means of which such development
shall be carried out, by providing it with financing for its
staff (including the staff of the competency committees
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iv) of the Guarantee
Agreement) training and technical assistance needs and for its
equipment, materials, copyright license acquisition and
incremental operating costs associated with the performance of
its role under the Project.
2.  (a)   Development and operation, through a network of OCs and
CEAs, of a national testing and certification program to
measure and certify the attainment by individuals of the skill
levels specified by the competency standards developed under
Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision to such OCs and
CEAs of grants for their staff training and technical
assistance needs and for their start-up, testing material
development and (in the case of OCs only) incremental operating
costs associated with the performance of their certification
and accreditation roles under the Project.
Part B:   Modernization of Training Programs
1.  Development and implementation by CONALEP, CETIS and CECATI
networks (on a pilot basis and with redesigned curricula and
instructional materials, trained instructors and upgraded
equipment) of new competency-based training modules.
2.  Development and implementation (subsequent to the pilot
phase referred to in Part B.1 of the Project) by public and
private training institutions of new training materials (which
materials shall remain in the public domain) in support of
modular courses designed to teach the skills necessary to meet
the competency standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the
Project.
Part C:   Stimulation of Demand for Competency-based Training and
          Certification
1.  Public promotion of the competency standards developed under
Part A.1 (a) of the Project through conferences, media
presentations, publicity campaigns and the dissemination of
Page  12
promotional materials.
2.  Provision, on a pilot basis, of grants to Mexican private
sector enterprises in priority productive sectors to develop
and implement competency-based training programs for their
workers and to assess trainee attainment of competencies
through such programs.
3.  Provision to MSMEs, as part of CIMO, of grants: (a) to
obtain technical assistance for their preparation of training
programs for their workers which are based on the competency
standards developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b)
to implement such training programs.
4.  (a)   Training, as part of PROBECAT, of trainees (referred to
in Section 3.13 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement) through
programs which are based on the competency standards developed
under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) provision of
stipends to the trainees covered by subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph.
5.  Provision of grants to cover a portion of the fees charged
by OCs and CEAs to individuals for taking the tests (developed
under Part A.2 of the Project) required to obtain certification
of competencies.
6.  (a)   Provision of equipment (subsequent to the pilot phase
referred to in Part B.1 of the Project) to public and private
training institutions in support of modular courses designed to
teach the skills necessary to meet the competency standards
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and (b) training
and certification of instructors (subsequent to the pilot phase
referred to in Part B.1 of the Project) of said training
institutions in support of modular courses designed to teach
the skills necessary to meet the competency standards developed
under Part A.1 (a) of the Project.
Part D:   Project Administration and Studies
1.  Carrying out of studies to, inter alia: (a) determine the
mechanisms for, and evaluate the probabilities of, eventual
attainment of financial solvency by the Trust, the OCs and the
CEAs; (b) identify and test (first in 1995 and thereafter as a
comparative follow-up in 1999) the skills and competencies
generally found across occupational clusters and economic
sectors in the Mexican productive sector; and (c) identify the
combination of basic skills most likely to contribute to an
individualþs success in attaining competency certification.
2.  Carrying out of studies to, inter alia: (a) improve SEP data
base and information systems to aid in carrying out the study
referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph; (b) identify
training course enrollment trends, in terms of change in
enrollee population and in the demand for training in specific
subject areas, during the course of the Project; (c) evaluate
differences in labor market performance and employment success
between trainees who participated in traditional vocational
courses and those who participated in competency-based courses;
and (d) evaluate training institution adaptation from
traditional to competency-based training.
3.  Carrying out of studies to, inter alia: (a) evaluate the
effectiveness of competency-based training provided under CIMO;
(b) evaluate the effectiveness of competency-based training
provided under PROBECAT; (c) evaluate, on the basis of case
studies, the impact of competency-based training on selected
private sector enterprises; and (d) evaluate the competency-
based skills certification process and related certification
incentives program.
4.  Coordination of Project implementation through operation of
the PAU and Project Steering Committee.
Page  13
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning July 15, 2000
    through January 15, 2010                  13,250,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) appli- cable
                                  to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.87
Page  14
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                           1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (13) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $19,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $12,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$24,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Page  15
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
Page  16
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
