Page  1
October 22, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, 
Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. México 
Re:
Loan 3805-ME (Technical Education and Training Modernization 
Project) 
Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and to 
the Implementation 
Letter
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and to 
the Implementation Letter, all dated February 7, 1995, as amended, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said 
Loan Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter as indicated below.
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 1.02 (w) is hereby amended by deleting the word “and” at the end 
thereof.
2.
Section 1.02 (x) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with the word “; and”.
3.
New Section 1.02 (y) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (x), to 
read as follows in its entirety:
“(y)
“INEA” means SEP’s National Institute for Adult Education 
(Instituto Nacional 
para la Educación de los Adultos).”.
4.
Paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  
“the term ‘incremental operating costs’ means:  (i) Trust, PAU, STPS and 
OC 
operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been 
incurred absent the 
Project, and as part of such operational costs 
includes salaries only for staff of the PAU, 
STPS and of the Trust technical 
secretariat referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of the 
Guarantee Agreement; 
(ii) CONALEP, CGUT, CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, CETMAR, CETIS, ICATE, 
INEA 
and CECATI operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been 
incurred 
absent the Project, but as part of such operational costs does not 
include any salaries; and  (iii) SEP costs, that would not have been incurred absent 
the Project, for operation of 
public sector CEAs under Part A.2 (a) of the 
Project;”.
5.
Part B.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the 
words “INEA, CETIS”.
II.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
6.
Section 3.01 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the words 
“INEA, CETIS”.
Page  2
7.
Section 3.01 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the words 
“INEA, CETIS”.
8.
Section 3.07 is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS”, wherever it 
appears, with the words “INEA, CETIS”.
III.
Amendments to the Implementation Letter
9.
The Project Monitoring Indicators in Attachment I to the Implementation Letter 
are hereby amended in their entirety as indicated in Attachment A to this letter.
10.
The Project Administration Unit section of Attachment IV to the Implementation 
Letter is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the words “INEA, CETIS” in 
its paragraphs 3 and 8 (d).
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director, 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: October 22, 1999
Date: October 22, 1999
