Page  1
May 24, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, 
Insurgentes Sur 1971 01020 
México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 03100  
México, D.F. México 
Re:
Loan 3805-ME (Technical Education and Training Modernization 
Project) 
Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and to 
the Implementation 
Letter
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and to 
the Implementation Letter, all dated February 7, 1995, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said 
Loan Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation Letter as indicated below.
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 1.02 (t) is hereby amended by deleting the word “and” at the end 
thereof.
2.
Section 1.02 (u) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with a semi-colon.
3.
New Sections 1.02 (v), (w) and (x) are hereby inserted immediately after Section 
1.02 (u), to read as follows in their entirety:
“(v)
“CBTIS” means SEP’s Secondary Technological Industrial Center (Centro de 
Bachillerato Tecnológico Industrial);”
“(w)
“CGUT” means SEP’s General Coordinating Entity for Technological 
Universities 
(Coordinación General de Universidades Tecnológicas); and”
“(x)
“ICATE” means SEP’s Work Training Institute (Instituto de Capacitación 
para el 
Trabajo).”.
4.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended by replacing the date “September 30, 2000” with 
the date “June 30, 2003”.
5.
Section 4.01 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A and D.1” with 
the words “Parts A, C.1 and D.1)”.
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as indicated in Attachment A to this letter.
7.
Paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “the term ‘incremental operating costs’ means:  (i) Trust, PAU, STPS and OC 
operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would not have been incurred absent 
the Project, and as part of such operational costs includes salaries only for staff of 
the PAU, STPS and of the Trust technical secretariat referred to in Section 3.06 (b) 
(iii) of the Guarantee Agreement; (ii) CONALEP, CGUT, CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, 
CETMAR, CETIS, ICATE and CECATI operational, maintenance and travel costs, that would 
not have been incurred absent the Project, but as part of such operational costs does 
Page  2
not include any salaries; and (iii) SEP costs, that would not have been incurred 
absent the Project, for operation of public sector CEAs under Part A.2 (a) of the 
Project;”.
8.
Part B.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the 
words “CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, CETMAR, CGUT, ICATE, CETIS”.
9.
Part C.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Public promotion, through conferences, media presentations, publicity campaigns and 
the dissemination of promotional materials, of:  (a) the competency standards 
developed under Part A.1 (a) of the Project; (b) the national testing and 
certification program developed under Part A.2 of the Project; (c) the new training 
modules and courses developed under Part B of the Project; and (d) the PROBECAT 
training program referred to in Part C.4 of the Project.”.
10.
The last sentence in Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the date “March 
31, 2000” with the date “December 31, 2002”.
II.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
11.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “cause 
Parts A and D.1 of the Project to be carried out by means of the Trust (except that 
SEP shall support the operation of public sector CEAs under Part A.2 (a) of the 
Project);”.
12.
Section 3.01 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the words 
“CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, CETMAR, CGUT, ICATE, CETIS”.
13.
Section 3.01 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS” with the words 
“CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, CETMAR, CGUT, ICATE, CETIS”.
14.
Section 3.01 (d) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “(i) 
carry out Part C.1 of the Project through STPS and SEP, and/or cause Part C.1 of the 
Project to be carried out by means of the Trust; and (ii) carry out Parts C.2 through 
C.6 of the Project and Part D.3 of the Project through STPS; and”.
15.
Section 3.05 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the parenthetical therein with 
the following:  “(through STPS with respect to Parts C.2 through C.6 of the Project, 
Part D.3 of the Project and STPS’ execution of Part C.1 of the Project, and through 
SEP with respect to Parts B, D.2 and D.4 of the Project and SEP’s execution of Part 
C.1 of the Project)”.
16.
Section 3.07 is hereby amended by replacing the word “CETIS”, wherever it 
appears, with the words “CBTA, CBTF, CBTIS, CETAC, CETMAR, CGUT, ICATE, CETIS”.
17.
Section 3.18 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “coordinate overall 
Project implementation” with the words “set overall Project implementation 
coordination policy”.
18.
Section 3.18 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the words “five other 
Coordinators (one executive coordinator, one for administration and financial 
management, one for procurement, one for monitoring and one for evaluation) and no 
more than ten additional technical and five additional support staff” with the words 
“six other Coordinators (one executive coordinator, one for administration and 
financial management, one for procurement, one for monitoring, one for evaluation and 
one for planning) and no more than sixteen technical and six additional support 
staff”.
III.
Amendments to the Implementation Letter
19.
The Implementation Schedule in Attachment I to the Implementation Letter is 
hereby amended in its entirety as indicated in Attachment B to this letter.
20.
The Project Monitoring Indicators in Attachment I to the Implementation Letter 
are hereby amended in their entirety as indicated in Attachment C to this letter.
21.
The Project Administration Unit section of Attachment IV to the Implementation 
Page  3
Letter is hereby amended by:  (a) renumbering its paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 to become 3, 4 
and 5; (b) replacing the word “CETIS” with the words “CBTIS, ICATE, CETIS, CGUT” in 
its paragraphs 3 and 8 (d) thereof; (c) replacing the words “four Coordinators” with 
the words “five Coordinators” in the preamble of paragraph 5 thereof; and (d) adding a 
new paragraph 5 (f) thereof to read as follows in its entirety:  “Planning.  The 
Coordinator, along with a Technical Assistant and an Administrative Assistant, will be 
responsible, in collaboration with the Project executing agencies, for integrating all 
pertinent information pertaining to the planning and programming of the Project, 
including, among others, the following activities:  (i) formulating desirable 
scenarios; (ii) establishing convergent strategies and structures for the future; 
(iii) establishing methodologies for strategic planning for all Project components; 
(iv) monitoring the implementation of the desirable scenario; (v) defining the lines 
of action resulting from the strategic plan for the Project; (vi) designing and 
carrying out the master plan for the Project; (vii) reporting on the progress of the 
implementation of the master plan; (viii) reporting on the discrepancies in meeting 
project targets, indicating the reasons for such discrepancies; and (ix) proposing 
necessary corrective measures.”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellin
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date May 24, 1999
Date May 24, 1999
