Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3805 ME
                            Guarantee Agreement
         (Technical Education and Training Modernization Project)
                                  between
                           UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 7, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3805 ME
                            GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1995, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
sixty-five million Dollars ($265,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                       Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, or cause to be
provided, in a timely manner as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational,
financial, technical and administrative standards and
practices, as well as in accordance with the annually
adjustable implementation schedule and targets set forth in the
Implementation Letter:
      (a)   cause Parts A and D.1 of the Project to be carried
out by means of the Trust;
      (b)   cause CONALEP to carry out those portions of Part B.1
of the Project which are not assigned to CETIS and CECATI
networks;
      (c)   carry out Parts B.2 and D.2 of the Project, and those
portions of Part B.1 of the Project assigned to the CETIS and
CECATI networks, through SEP;
      (d)   carry out Parts C and D.3 of the Project through
STPS; and
      (e)   carry out Part D.4 of the Project through the PAU and
the Project Steering Committee.
      Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into, and comply
with the terms of, the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The
Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan.
Page  3
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out or cause
to be carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) with regard to the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation of the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, the Guarantor shall:
            (i)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, or cause to be
                  prepared and furnished to the Bank, not later
                  than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                  such later date as may be agreed for this
                  purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a
                  plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall reasonably request, for the future
                  operation of the Project;
            (ii)  afford the Bank, or cause the Bank to be
                  afforded, a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                  views with the Borrower on said plan; and
           (iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan, or cause
                  said plan to be carried out, with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                  with appropriate practices, taking into
                  account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall (through STPS with
respect to Parts C and D.3 of the Project and through the PAU
with respect to Parts B, D.2 and D.4 of the Project) maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.
      (b)   The Guarantor shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with generally
                  accepted auditing standards and procedures
                  consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as
                  well as the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
Page  4
                  such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals were made from the Special Account, the Guarantor
shall provide to the Borrower any information that may be
required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower's
obligations under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
      (e)   The Guarantor shall cause CONALEP to provide the PAU
with any information in CONALEP's possession required to meet
the obligations set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this
Section.
      Section 3.06. (a) For purposes of Part A and D.1 of the
Project, the Guarantor shall enter into, and comply with the
terms of, the Trust Agreement. The Guarantor shall exercise its
rights under the Trust Agreement in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The Trust Agreement shall include terms whereby,
inter alia:
            (i)   a technical committee (comite tecnico), with a
                  membership the majority of which is made up of
                  non-government productive sector
                  representatives, is created for the Trust to
                  set general policies for the Trust which are
                  consistent with the terms of the Trust
                  Agreement;
            (ii)  said technical committee shall, no later than
                  eight months after the date of the Trust
                  Agreement, issue internal operational rules and
                  procedures for the Trust which are consistent
                  with the terms of the Trust Agreement;
           (iii)  said technical committee shall establish a
                  technical secretariat (secretaria
                  ejecutiva) for the Trust to implement the
                  general policies set by the technical
                  committee and shall name such technical
                  secretariat's Secretary General
                  (Secretario Ejecutivo); and
            (iv)  competency committees (subcomites de
                  normalizacion) shall be created, each composed
                  of private sector employers and employees
                  representing a particular industrial sector or
                  occupational cluster, within the structure of
Page  5
                  the Trust to assist in developing the national
                  competency standards referred to in Part A.1
                  (a) of the Project.
      (c)   The internal operational rules and procedures
referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section shall, inter
alia, contain terms specifying:
            (i)   the requirement that Parts A and D.1 of the
                  Project be carried out by means of the Trust in
                  a manner consistent with the terms of the
                  Guarantee Agreement;
            (ii)  the requirement that the studies referred to in
                  Part D.1 of the Project be carried out under
                  terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
           (iii)  the structure and operational rules and
                  procedures of the technical secretariat
                  referred to in paragraph (b) (iii) of this
                  Section;
            (iv)  the structure and operational rules and
                  procedures of the competency committees
                  referred to in paragraph (b) (iv) of this
                  Section, as well as the criteria to be used for
                  selecting the occupational areas for which they
                  shall assist in developing national competency
                  standards;
            (v)   the procedures and criteria to be used by the
                  Trust in granting licenses to OCs and by OCs in
                  granting accreditation to CEAs, as well as the
                  requirements (such as maintenance of specified
                  data bases and adherence to specified
                  organizational structures and to terms of
                  reference, including procedures and fee
                  guidelines) for an OC to keep its license and
                  for a CEA to keep its accreditation;
            (vi)  the procedures and criteria according to which
                  OCs and CEAs shall receive the support referred
                  to in Part A.2 (b) of the Project; and
           (vii)  the requirement that, throughout the
                  course of Project implementation: (A) the
                  Trust participate in the annual and
                  midterm reviews referred to in Section
                  3.19 (b) and (c) of this Agreement,
                  furnish to the Bank the reports referred
                  to in Section 3.19 (a) of this Agreement
                  and carry out the action plans referred to
                  in Section 3.19 (b) (ii) of this Agreement
                  as they relate to the Trust's
                  participation in the Project; and (B) the
                  Trust maintain registries of the national
                  competency standards approved by the
                  Trust, of the OCs licensed by the Trust,
                  of the accredited CEAs and of the
                  individuals who have taken national
                  competency standard certification tests
                  given by the OCs and CEAs (indicating
                  which have passed and which have failed
                  such tests).
      Section 3.07. The Guarantor, through the CETIS and CECATI
networks (including private training institutions associated
with such networks), shall carry out (and the Guarantor shall
cause CONALEP to carry out) Part B.1 of the Project based on
competency standards other than, and prior to the development
of, the national competency standards referred to in Part A.1
(a) of the Project. The Guarantor shall distribute
Page  6
responsibilities for carrying out Part B.1 of the Project
between CONALEP and the CETIS and CECATI networks.
      Section 3.08. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall by no
later than September 30, 1996 issue guidelines, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the provision of SEP support to assist training
institutions in developing and implementing the new training
materials referred to in Part B.2 of the Project. The provision
of any SEP support to such institutions under Part B.2 of the
Project shall be governed by the terms of such guidelines.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not
amend or fail to enforce any provision of such guidelines.
      Section 3.09. The Guarantor, through SEP, shall carry out
the studies referred to in Part D.2 of the Project under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Guarantor, through
SEP, shall by June 30, 1995 furnish to the Bank for comments a
consultant proposal for carrying out the study referred to in
Part D.2 (c) of the Project.
      Section 3.10. The Guarantor, through the PAU, shall,
throughout the course of Project implementation, maintain
registries of all training institutions participating in Part
B of the Project and of the modular, competency-based training
courses such institutions provide. In addition, the Guarantor
shall cause each such institution to maintain a registry of the
students enrolled in, and of the students that have graduated
from, the modular, competency-based training courses offered by
such institution.
      Section 3.11. With regard to Part C.2 of the Project, the
Guarantor, through STPS, shall make grants available to a
private sector enterprise only to reimburse no more than 60% of
the costs previously incurred by such enterprise in developing
and implementing competency-based training programs and in
assessing trainee attainment of competencies through such
programs, with the remaining percentage to be covered by the
private sector enterprise in question. The Guarantor, through
STPS, shall select enterprises for participation in Part C.2 of
the Project according to criteria referred to in Attachment III
(1) of the Implementation Letter.
      Section 3.12. With regard to Part C.3 of the Project, the
Guarantor, through STPS, shall support MSMEs through a cost-
sharing scheme whereby: (a) with regard to the implementation
of training under Part C.3 (b) of the Project, the Guarantor
shall ensure that the percentage of costs borne by MSMEs shall
throughout the course of Project implementation equal 65% (in
the case of MSMEs with 16 or more employees) and 30% (in the
case of MSMEs with 15 or fewer employees); (b) with regard to
technical assistance under Part C.3 (a) of the Project, the
Guarantor shall ensure that the percentage of costs borne by
MSMEs shall throughout the course of Project implementation
equal 40% (in the case of MSMEs with 16 or more employees) and
shall equal 30% throughout the course of Project implementation
(in the case of MSMEs with 15 or fewer employees); and (c)
MSMEs shall receive the remaining percentage of costs from the
Guarantor not as advances made by the Guarantor, but only as
reimbursements made by the Guarantor for training
implementation and technical assistance costs already incurred
by the MSMEs.
      Section 3.13. With regard to Part C.4 of the Project, the
Guarantor, through STPS, shall: (a) select trainees according
to criteria referred to in Attachment III (2) of the
Implementation Letter; (b) pay trainees during their training
a stipend equal to the applicable regional legal minimum wage
(plus a transportation supplement equivalent to no more than
30% of the applicable regional legal minimum wage); and (c) pay
the training institutions in question for costs such
institutions have incurred in providing the training referred
to in Part C.4 (a) of the Project.
Page  7
      Section 3.14. With regard to Part C.5 of the Project, the
Guarantor, through STPS and according to guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include criteria (set
forth in Attachment III (3) of the Implementation Letter) for
determining which individuals are eligible for certification
fee relief, shall reimburse OCs and CEAs: (a) for 100% of the
fee not paid by or on behalf of an eligible unemployed test
taker or of an instructor referred to in Part C.6 (b) of the
Project; and (b) for 90% of the fee (if the test is taken
before 1998), 70% of the fee (if the test is taken during 1998)
or 50% of the fee (if the test is taken during 1999) in the
case of an eligible employed test taker for whom the remainder
of the fee has been paid at least in part by the test taker,
his employer (including government employer) or any other non-
public entity.
      Section 3.15. (a) The Guarantor, through STPS, shall
publicly invite training institutions to present proposals to
benefit from the training covered by Part C.6 of the Project.
To obtain such benefits, training institutions shall be
selected by the Guarantor, through STPS, according to
procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b)   The Guarantor, through STPS, shall publicly invite
training institutions to present proposals to benefit from the
equipment covered by Part C.6 of the Project. To obtain such
benefits, training institutions shall be selected by the
Guarantor, through STPS, according to procedures and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank. The Guarantor, through STPS, shall
provide such equipment to training institutions which is valued
at or below $200,000 equivalent per selected training
institution. The Guarantor shall retain title to such equipment
but shall require the training institutions to be responsible
for its operation and maintenance. Training institutions
receiving equipment under Part C.6 of the Project must also
participate in the retraining under such Part of the Project.
      (c)   The Guarantor, through STPS, shall enter into a
renewable one-year term contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
with each privately-owned training institution receiving
equipment under paragraph (b) of this Section. Such contract
and the first one-year renovation thereof shall each require
each such training institution to provide training services to
individuals or enterprises at a discount which results in
savings to the training recipients equal to at least 15% per
year of the cost of such equipment. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of the contracts referred to in this
paragraph.
      Section 3.16. The Guarantor, through STPS, shall carry out
the studies referred to in Part D.3 of the Project under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.17. The Guarantor, through STPS, shall,
throughout the course of Project implementation, maintain
registries of all the private sector enterprises participating
in the development and implementation of training programs
under Part C.2 of the Project and of the results achieved as a
result of such participation, of all the MSMEs and trainees
participating in Part C.3 of the Project and of all trainees
benefiting from Part C.4 of the Project.
      Section 3.18. (a) The Guarantor shall coordinate overall
Project implementation through the Project Steering Committee
which shall operate throughout the course of Project
implementation and shall be composed of: (i) higher-level SEP
representatives; (ii) higher-level STPS representatives; (iii)
the Trust's Secretary General referred to in Section 3.06 (b)
(iii) of this Agreement; (iv) a representative from SHCP; and
(v) a representative of the Borrower.
Page  8
      (b)   The Guarantor shall coordinate implementation of
Parts B and D.2 of the Project through the PAU which shall
operate throughout the course of Project implementation
according to terms of reference referred to in Attachment IV of
the Implementation Letter, as well as according to operational
rules and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and shall be
staffed on a full-time basis by a Director, three Coordinators
(one for administration and financial management, one for
procurement and one for monitoring and evaluation) and no more
than five additional technical and support staff.
      Section 3.19. (a) Throughout the course of Project
implementation, and without limitation of the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor shall
(and shall cause the Trust and CONALEP to) furnish to the Bank,
by no later than 30 days prior to each annual review referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section (beginning in 1995), an
annual progress report, in form satisfactory to the Bank, on
implementation of the Project (as well as a proposed budget and
plan for Project implementation for the immediately subsequent
fiscal year).
      (b)   The Guarantor, through SEP, STPS and SHCP, shall
participate, and shall cause the Trust and CONALEP to
participate, in annual reviews of Project implementation to be
held in conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower during the
second half of each month of November during Project
implementation, beginning in 1995. Each such review shall,
based inter alia on the reports and proposed plans and budgets
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section:
            (i)   examine the status of Project implementation;
                  and
            (ii)  result in the preparation by the Guarantor, no
                  later than each immediately subsequent January
                  15, of an annual action plan for the Project,
                  satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out or
                  caused to be carried out by the Guarantor
                  during the immediately subsequent fiscal year,
                  each such action plan to contain, inter alia,
                  the annual adjustment to implementation
                  schedules and targets referred to in Section
                  3.01 of this Agreement.
      (c)   Except as provided in Attachment II of the
Implementation Letter, the Guarantor, through STPS, SEP and
SHCP, shall participate, and shall cause the Trust and CONALEP
to participate, in a midterm review of Project implementation
to be held in conjunction with the Bank and the Borrower during
the annual review (referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section) to be held in November 1996. Such midterm review shall
be carried out under terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall be presented by the Guarantor to the Bank by
no later than July 31, 1996.
                                ARTICLE IV
                Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Director General de Credito Publico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
            Direccion General de Credito Publico
Page  9
            Palacio Nacional, Patio Central
            Oficina 4037
            06066 Mexico, D.F.
                                    Telex:
                                      1777313-SHOCME
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD           248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                      197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico
City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
                        UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                        By  /s/  Guillermo Ortiz Martinez
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By  /s/  Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods, Certain Training
               Materials and Printing Services
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods, non-
copyrighted training materials (which are readily available
from numerous international suppliers) and printing services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
Page  10
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bankþs prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
D of this Section, the Bankþs prior approval will be required
for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods, training materials and
printing services in accordance with Part A of this Section,
the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project, shall be used.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, training
materials and printing services shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more
each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods and training materials in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Section, goods and training materials manufactured in Mexico
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods (other than training materials covered by paragraphs
2, 4 or 5 of this Part C) and printing services (for non-
copyrighted, including promotional, materials) estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $350,000 per contract or per
bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$31,800,000 in the case of such goods and $14,400,000 in the
case of such printing services, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Such procurement shall take place using standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Non-copyrighted training materials (which are available
from only a limited number of international suppliers), up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,900,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof. Such procurement shall take place
using the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
3.    Goods (other than training materials covered by paragraphs
2, 4 or 5 of this Part C) estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $150,000 per contract or per bid package, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,600,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three contractors
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines, copyrighted training materials (and the printing
thereof), up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $27,500,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded after direct
Page  11
negotiations with the copyright holder (and its publisher when
necessary), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 4
of this Part, OCs may procure goods, training materials and
printing services, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $325,000 for each OC and the equivalent of
$1,300,000 overall, under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i)
each contract covered by Parts A and C.2 of this Section; (ii)
each of the first contract (awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally) for goods and equipment, each of
the first such contract for printing services and each of the
first such contract for non-durable training materials entered
into by the Guarantor through SEP, by the Guarantor through
STPS, by CONALEP, by the Trust and by each OC, CEA and other
public or private entity undertaking procurement under the
Project; and (iii) each of the first contract (awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations) for goods and
equipment, each of the first such contract for printing
services and each of the first such contract for non-durable
training materials entered into by the Guarantor through SEP,
by the Guarantor through STPS, by CONALEP, by the Trust and by
each OC, CEA and other public or private entity undertaking
procurement under the Project. Where payments for any such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Guarantor and/or any other Project-
executing entities in carrying out the Project, the Guarantor
shall employ and/or cause such entities to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
Page  12
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such consultants shall be employed under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
agreed with the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or to contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments of contracts for consulting firms
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or above or for
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments of contracts for consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above or
for individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
