Page  1
June 2, 1998 
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. México 
Re:    Loan 3805-ME (Technical Education and Training Modernization 
Project) 
Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, all 
dated February 7, 1995 (as previously amended), with respect to the above-captioned 
Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements as follows:
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by:
(a)
replacing the figure “2,500,000” in Category (1) (a) with the figure 
“1,800,000”; and
(b)
inserting a new Category (15), immediately after Category (14), to read 
as follows in its entirety:
“Civil works with
700,000
70%”
  regard to Part A.1 (b)
  of the Project
2.
Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end 
thereof with the words “, as well as for civil works required to refurbish the 
headquarters of its technical committee referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of the 
Guarantee Agreement.”.
3.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended by replacing the words 
“Categories (1) through (13)” with the words “Categories (15) and (1) through (13)”.
II.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
4.
The title of Section I of the Schedule is hereby amended by inserting the word 
“Works,” immediately before the word “Goods”.
5.
Section I, Part C.1 of the Schedule is hereby amended by redesignating its text 
as Part C.1 (a) and adding a new Part C.1 (b) immediately thereafter, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  “Civil works for Part A.1 (b) of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  Such procurement 
shall take place using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.”. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
  Sincerely yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Olivier Lafourcade 
Director 
Mexico Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellin
Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: July 23, 1998
Date: July 23, 1998
