Documm: ef
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-6452-EC
IIEMORANDU AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
NTEIRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (MOSTA)
NOVEMBER  12, 1994
This document has a restricteO dishibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not ohwise be disclosed wintout World BanL authoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALNTS
Currency Unit - Sucre (S.1)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of October 15, 1994)
US$1.00 = S.12,263
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCE         Banco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
CGE         Contmaloria General del Estado
(Controller General's Office)
CIP         Convenio de Participaci6n Interinstitucional
(Inter-Agency Participation Anangement)
CONADE    Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
CONAM       Consejo Nacional de Modemizacion del Estado
(National Council for Modermization of the State)
CRI         Convenio de Reestructuracifn Institucional
(Institutional Restrturing Agreement)
EMETEL    Empresa de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Company)
GOE         Government of Ecuador
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
1DB         Inter-American Development Bank
lIC         Inter-Institutional Informatics Commission
IPM         Inegrated. FinancialManagement
INEC        Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censo
(National Institute of Statistics and Census)
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
LOAFYC    Ley Organica de Administracion Financiera y Control
(Organic Law for Financial Administration and Control)
MFCP        Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr6dito P6blico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
MOS         Modernization of the State
PGR         Procuraduria General de la Republica
(Attorney General's Office)
PWG         Project Working Group
SCP         Subsecretaria de Cr6dito Pjiblico del MFCP
(Underscrtariat of Public Credit of MFCP)
SENDA       Secretarfa Nacional de Desarrillo Administrativo
(National Secretary for Administrative Development)
SGP         Secretarfa General de Planificaci6n
(General Secretariat of Plamning)
SIGEF       Sistema Integrado de Gestion Financiera
(Integrated Fiancial Management System)
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SP          Subsecretaria de Presupuesto del MFCP
(Undersecretariat of Budget of MFCP)
ST          Subsecretaria del Tesoro del MFCP
(Undersecretariat of Treasury of MFCP)
Thisdocument has atctd diiton and may be  d by rcpien ony in dh peformnc ofth i
I ofiialduies t coftent may tot othewis be discloed without Worl Baut admuthrrtln



MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
TECHNICAL ASITANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF-CONTENTS
Page No.
Background ........................  I
Government Strategy ...........           ..............  2
Project Objectives .........................  3
Project Description .......................... 3
Project Implementation .......................... 4
Costs and Finncing ..........           ...............  5
Procurement ........................  6
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits ...................... 7
Reporting, Supervision and Evaluation  .....................  8
Project Sustainabiity ...........        ..............  8
Lessons Learned fom Previous Bank Involvement ....     ..........  8
Rationale for Bank Involvement ........    ..................  9
Environmental Aspects ............       ...................  9
Program Objective Category  .........      .................. 10
Project Benefits . ................................... 10
Risks .......................................... 10
Agreed Actions .   ................................... 10
Recommendation ................................... 12
Schedule A: Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan  ....  ...... 13
Schedule B: Procurement Methods and Disbursements ....    ....... 15
Schedule C: Time Table of Key Processing Events ....    ......... 18
Schedule D: Status of Bank Group Loans and IDA Credits .... .... 19
Schedule E: Statement of IFC Investments  .....    ............. 21
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TECHNICAL ANNEX ATTACHMENTS



ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF TIE STATE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN A PROJECT SMMARY
Borroweri         Republic of Ecuador
Implementing      National Council for Modernization of the State
eneficiariBes:    National Council for Modemization of the State,
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, National
Secretary for Administrative Development, Controller
General's Office, General Secretariat of Planning,
Central Bank of Ecuador, and other Ministries and
Government agencies
fry! y:           Not applicable
AmoUntA:          US$20.0 miilion equivalent (up to US$2mn. financed
retroactively)
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:   See Schedule A.
Net Present Value: Not applicable
Stafl Apraisal    Not applicable
Re:ort:
M:                Not applicable



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTRNATIONAL BANK FYOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the
equivalent of US$20.3 million to help finance a Modernization of the State
Technical Assistance Project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, with a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
2.    Background. Ecuador's public sector has grown considerably over
the last 20 years. Financed by a rapid increase in oil revenues, public
entities almost doubled in number, public enterprises tripled, and public
employment increased nearly 85 percent (the public sector now employs close
to one quarter of the formal labor force). Multiple public agencies with
overlapping programs and jurisdictions comprise a complex institutional
structure that lacks coordination and has widespread inefficiencies, affecting
planning and budgeting. A previously rigid budgetary system led to an
intricate system of earmarking that affected over 40 percent of public
spending. During the 1980s, excessive demands on the budget, including
growing subsidies, coupled with a fall in oil prices caused persistent fiscal
imbalances and rising inflation. Periodic stabilization efforts led to cuts in
real wages of public employees, reduction in public investments and sporadic
withholding of payments and wages. Unfortunately, these efforts were not
anchored by structural reforms to reduce permanently the size of the public
sector or lower subsidies to levels compatible with non-inflationary financing.
As a result, these short term efforts have not been sustained and there has
been a marked deterioration in the delivery of essential public services.
3.    Together with a comprehensive stabilization package, the
administration of President Duran-BalUen in September 1992 announced a
reform agenda aimed at redefining the role of the state in the economy.
Reflecting the Government's priority for controlling expenditures, a new
Public Budgets Law was approved in December 1992. This law provides an
important instrument to improve economic management and restructure
public accounting and control by incorporating all public agencies into a new
unified budget review and approval process, reducing earmarking, and giving
the Finance Ministry greater authority over resource allocation. To maintain
revenue flows the Government aims to sustain the sharp reduction in
subsidies for publicly provided services and to increase tax collections.
Moreover, the Hydrocarbons Law has been amended to allow domestc oil



2
prices to reflect international opportunity costs. In addition, the
Government's Modernization of the State (MOS) Program-reflected in a law
approved in December 1993--provides a framework for an incentives-based
reform of the management of public entities, decentralization of
administrative activities, and privatization of public services. Downsizing of
the public sector to eliminate excessive personnel, consolidate overlapping
programs, and expand efficiency is a key aspect of the program. The MOS
Law also established the National Council for the Modernization of the State
(CONAM) as the agency charged with managing the Government's
modernization program.
4.    Government Strategy. The modernization strategy is built around
two basic principles: (i) imposition of timely and reliable controls; (ii) the
creation of strong incentives for public agencies to produce needed public
services effectively and efficiently. Strengthened financial controls were
mandated under the Public Budgets Law of 1992, while the Modernization of
the State Law of 1993 provided the legal framework for an incentives-baued
reform of the state. The Government strategy is to, first, strengthen public
financial controls while decentralizing certain key financial management
responsibilities; and second, restructuring public entities through a process
that provides managerial and financial incentives for individual public entities
to improve their capacity to deliver well-specified public services (including
policy foundations) effectively and efficiently.
5.    The exchange of strengthened financial reporting and controls for
more decentralized financial management responsibility will be implemented
through the signing and execution of individual Inter-Agency Participation
Arrangements (Convenios de Participacion Interinstitucional, or CIPs).
Under the restructuring process, each candidate public entity first negotiates
and then implements an Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Convenio de
Reestructuraci6n Institucional, or CR1), which identifies both the benefits to
be conferred on that entity and the obligations it will incur.
6.   Incentives provided to each qualifying public entity include:
(a)   sramlined procedures for allocating financial resources
through the new integrated financial management system;
(b)   access to a mechanism by which they can finance more
competitive salaries for their employees via savings achieved
by their own employment reductions and asset divestment; and
(c)   access to technical assistance resources to help them plan and
implement their own restructuring process.
7.    In exchange for these benefits, each restructuring entity must:



3
(a)   clearly specify its objectives and how its performance in
meeting those objectives will be monitored and evaluated;
(b)   fully comply with the new Public Budgets Law and all its
reporting requirements;
(c)   develop and comply with a fiscally sustainable Restructuring
Financing Plan;
(d)   comply with strengthened personnel management and reporting
requirements;
(e)   meet employment, asset divestment and fiscal dividend targets
to which it commits itself when negotiating its CRI; and
(f)   comply with performance monitoring and reporting
requirements inclhded in its CRI.
8.    Consistent with the fiscal objectives of the Government, the
Restructuring Financing Plans incorporated in each CRI will ensure the
following fiscal consequences of each public entity restructuring:
(a)   each restructuring entity self-finances an agreed-upon fraction
of the severance payment costs of its employment reductions
through its divestment of assets and personnel cost savings
achieved through those employment reductions;
(b) each restructuring entity self-finances all salary improvements
through the payroll cost savings achieved through its
employment reductions; while
(c)   each restructuring yields a fiscal dividend to the Treasury in
accordance with the terms of its CRI.
9.    Project Objectives. The project is designed to ensure that the fiscal
and management objectives embodied in the Government's modernization
strategy are achieved and will be sustained. The proposed project will assist
the Government in achieving these public sector objectives by: (a) improving
the framework, procedures and systems for public sector financial
management and control; (b) laying the strategic foundation and providing
initial support for restmucring the public sector, creating the basis for
greater managerial efficiency and operational effectiveness; and (c) providing
efficiency, sustainability, and transparency to the Government's public sector
reform efforts.
10.   POlvit Descrinpton. The project would finance consultant services,
computer equipment and software, training, materials and incremental
operating costs for: (a) a Public Financial Management and Contol
program, US$14.9 million exclusive of contingencies, which includes sub-
components for the following: (i) a budget system comprising strengthening
of the medium-term budgetary framework, budget formulation and execution



4
processes, and program control and evaluation; (ii) a public credit system;
(iii) Govemment accounting and treasury; (iv) auditing; (v) public
contracting; (vi) a payroll and personnel system; and (vii) supporting
information systems; (b) a Public Sector Modernization orogam, US$3.8
million exclusive of contingencies, which includes: (i) activities aimed at
further development and strentening of the strategic planning function; (ii)
the design, plnning and implementation of public sector resuctring and
management strengthening; and (iii) related public sector training; and (c)
Coqrdination of the Reform ProrM. US$4.1 million exclusive of
contingencies.
11.  Project Implementation. The Project would be implemented under
the coordination of CONAM, the project coordinating agency, as mandated
by the MOS Law. The project would be executed by the respective
Govenmment agencies responsible for carrying out the activities in their
fields: the Ministry of Finance (MFC?), the Controller General's Office
(CGE), the National Secretariat for Administrative Development (SENDA)
and the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) for the Integrated Financial
Management Component; and SENDA and the Generai Secretariat of
Planming (SGP) for the Public Sector Modernization Component. The
Project Implementation Plan included in the Technical Annex provides a
detailed summary of project implementation responsibilities. All policy
decisions with respect to the execution of the project would be made by the
Executive Director of CONAM, a cabinet-level appointee by the President.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would enter into a
Subsidiary Agreement with CONAM providing for the adminison of loan
proceeds and coordination of project execution.
12.  In addition, the Government will ensure that CONAM maintains unil
completion of the project:
(a)   a Project Working Group, responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the project by the Executing Agencies and
making policy recommendations to CONAM;
(b)   an administrative coordination group, responsible for the
coordination of procurement and disbursements to be carried
out under the project and the administation of related records,
accounts and audits, in accord with a Project Administrative
Manual developed during project preparation and adopted by
the Government during negotiations;
(c)   an informatics commission, responsible for the development
and implementation of the Borrower's informatics plan; and



5
(d)   an acquisitions committee, respons:> w for approving bidding
documents and contracts for goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
13. A Project Administrative Manual provides detailed guidelines for all
project operations and procedures. A Project Action Plan provides a detailed
action plan for the entire project. In addition, Anmnal Operating Plans will
be prepared each year in order to ensue regular revision of the Project
Action Plan in light of changing circumstances. The preparation of Quarterly
Progress Reports will ensure regular and timely monitoring and evaluation of
project execution and impacts, and will feed intc the preparation of the
Annual Operating Plans.
14.  In accordance with the Government's strategy, implementation of the
Integrated Financial Management System (SIGEF) within particular public
entities will require the prior signing of an Inter-agency Participation
Arrangement, committing both the particular public entity and the
Government to a specific action plan for implementation of SIGEF in that
entity. Similarly, restructuring of particular public entities under the Public
Entity Restructuring Process will be contingent on the signing of an
Institutional Restructuring Agreement (CRI) between the candidate public
entity and CONAM, committing both the particular public entity and the
Government to a specific action plan for implementation of the proposed
restrcuing.
15.   As a complement to the Public Financial Management and Control
component's activities to strengthen the relationship between budgeting and
planning functions, the Public Sector Modernization component includes a
subcomponent to strengthen the analytic and institutonal capacites of SGP to
carry out its investment planning function. This will be accomplished via a
twinning arrangement in which SGP will avail itself of the experience and
expertise of Chile's Ministry of Planning. A Twinning Agreement will be
signed between the Government of Ecuador and the Government of Chile for
this purpose.
16.   Costs and I-ancgnb. Total project costs are estimated at US$25.0
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$11.0 million, or 44% of
project costs. Project costs include US$2.0 million for physical (US$1.4
million) and price (US$0.7 million) contingencies. Project costs also include
the refinancing of amounts disbursed under the US$1.5 million project
preparation facility advance (P206-EC) and any accrued interest thereon. The
proposed loan of US$20.0 million equivalent would finance approximately
80% of total project costs, net of duties and taxes. The loan would finance
100% of the costs of about 2,785 months of consultants' services, of which



6
350 are expected to be internationally recrited. A Japan PHRD Grant is
financing preparation costs in the amount of Yen 59,900,000, equivalent to
approximately US$560,000. Detailed cost estimates and the project's
financing plan are provided in Schedule A.
17.   Proment. Procurement of goods and services would be carried
out in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Consultants to be
financed under the project would be selected and hired by the Govenment in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Significantly, the proposed project would
provide for a revision of the Bofower's public contracting procedures as part
of the contracting/procurement sub-component, and technical assistance to
strengthen institutional capacity for procurement administration under the
project, and for the public sector at large. To put this into effect, the project
working group also includes a coordinator and specialist for overseeing
procurement and control of the project's resources. However, until such
time as the new procedures take effect, existing legislation contain various
procurement provisions that are incompatible with Bank guidelines.
Therefore, special provisions dealing with points of differences, either in
substance or in interpretation, between Bank guidelines-for procurement and
for the use of consultants-and Fuadoran legislation are included in the Loan
Agreement.
18. Procurement would be limited to the purchase of goods and
employment of consultants. The software, hardware, training and
maintenance for the informatics component of the integrated financial
management system (SIGEF), estimated to cost US$8.0 million equivalent,
would be procured through LImited Intemational Bidding (IB) or ICB using
a two-step bidding procedure and Bank standard bidding documents, modified
as appropriate. The software, bardware, training and maintenance for the
informatics component of the integrated financial management system
(SIGEF) would be procured in two stages. The first would be to acquire
components for the core agencies and one unit in each of the remaining
twelve ministries, the second for the budget units of agencies being
restructured under the Modernmization Component. Miscellaneous equipment
and supplies, including computers not included in the informatics component,
estimated to cost below US$50,000 equivalent per contract, but not exceeding
in the aggregate US$0.75 million equivalent, would be procured through
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. All contracts for procurement
of goods to be awarded through LIB or ICB would be subject to prior review
by the Bank and the imainig goods would be subject to ex-post review by
supervision missions.
19. The Anmual Operating Plans would include any revisions in the plan
for hiring consultants, and would be submitted to the Bank for review and



7
approval. The prior review of consultants' contracts would be in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. However, consultant contracts estimated to cost below
US$75,000 for firms and US$30,000 for individuals would require only the
review of the terms of reference on an ex-ante basis, regardless of which of
the first two contracts of each type would be subject to prior review.
Supporting documentation for these contracts would be reviewed selectively
on an ex-post basis. However, this exception to Bank's review would not
apply to single source selection of firms nor to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Bank.
20.   Disbursements, Accounts and Audits. The proceeds of the proposed
loan would be disbursed over a six year period, to cover: (i) 100% of
expenditures (net of taxes) for international and local consultants' services;
(ii) 90% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for
equipment, materials and information systems; (iii) 60% of foreign
expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for training costs; and (iv) 60%
of expenditures up to US$ 0.5 million equivalent, and 30% of expenditures
thereafter, for site management and operating costs. Disbursement of loan
proceeds would be made under the following categories: (i) consulting
services (US$ 9.2 million); (ii) informatics system and other goods and
materials (US$ 5.9 million); (iii) training (US$ 0.7 million); (iv) incremental
operating costs (US$ 0.7 million); (v) PPF refinancing (US$ 1.5 million);
and (vi) unallocated (UJS$ 2.0 million). A Special Account would be
established in the Central Bank of Ecuador, or in a commercial bank,
whenever feasible under Ecuadoran legislation, for up to US$0.4 million until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals equal or exceed the equivalent of
US$2.0 million, after which the Special Account would be limited to US$0.6
million. Eligible expenditures from the date of appraisal may be
retroactively financed up to a maximum equivalent of US$2.0 million, for
expenditures made after July 1, 1994. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) except those covered by contracts
requiring the Bank's prior review (i.e SIGEF information systems and
equipment, and consultants' contracts of $75,000 and above for firms, and
$30,000 and above for individuals). The allocation of loan proceeds and
estimated disbursement schedule are summarized in Schedule B.
21.   CONAM's administrative unit would maintain detailed project
accounts, utilizing an accounting plan acceptable to the Bank, and would
process all payments and disbursement requests. Supporting documentation
will be maintained by CONAM's administrative unit and made available to
Bank missions and independent auditors as required. Project Accounts, the
Special Account, and the use of SOEs would be audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and appointed for at least a three



8
year period. The terms of reference for auditors and reports would be
approved by the Bank. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no
later than four months after the close of the Government's fiscal year.
22.   Reporting. Supervision and Evaluation. All project implementing
agencies would submit quarterly progress reports to the PWG according to a
standardized format acceptable to the Bank. The PWG would forward a
consolidated report to the Bank one month after the erd of the quarter. The
December 31 version of the report, to be submitted by end-January, would
include a proposed Annual Operating Plan for the following calendar year, to
be discussed with the first supervision mission scheduled during that year. A
project Mid-term Review would provide a detailed evaluation of progress in
implementation of the project, as reflected in progress towards meeting
monitorinig indicators, and provide an opportunity to identify and discuss any
required adjustments to the project. Monitoring indicators are provided in
the Project Implementation Plan, which is included as an Attachnent to the
Technical Annex. The project supervision plan is summarized in the
Technical Annex (p. 38).
23.   Project Sustainability. Sustainability of the Public Sector
Modernization Component depends on the political motivation of institutions
not only to downsize but to restructure their organizations. The design of the
project is geared to attract institutions that have this motivation. Combined
with the built-in incentives to restructure, this should improve the chances of
success and set an example that could be replicated in other public sector
institutions. Sustainability is being ensured through political support
evidenced by the passage and effectiveness of the Budget Law. Furthermore,
after approval of the MOS Law and its regulations, the President appointed
both a highly respected Executive Director and a President for CONAM.
Government commitment is also demonstrated by the strong impetus provided
to stabilization and reform efforts, as reflected in the recent approval of the
IMF Standby, preliminary agreement with commercial creditors, and
progress on further structural adjustment measures.
24.   Lessons Leamed from Previous Bank Involvement. Lessons of
previous Bank operations incorporated in this project suggest that: (i) the
scope of TA projects should permit adequate preparation, focused
implementation, and supervision; (ii) Borrower commitment is essential to
develop a sense of project ownership in affected institutions; and (iii) there
should be periodic project evaluations to permit adjustments in the design and
implementation arrangements. The recently-closed Ecuador Public Sector
Management TA Project corroborates these findings. Finally these projects
need to develop internal skills and implement reforms of the public
employment and wage structure to enhance the Goverrunent's ability to



9
attract and retain technically skilled staff. The proposed project has been
thoroughly prepared to permit focused implementation and supervision.
Recognizing the complexity of the project and the inevitability of changing
circumstances, the project includes the preparation of Annual Operating Plans
based on Quarterly Progress Reports as a means of regularly revising the
Project Action Plan. This arrangement meets the need for periodic project
evaluations to permit adjustments in the design and implerrmentation
arrangements. The reliance on an incentives-based strategy for project
implementation -- especially through the requirements for the signing of
Inter-institutional Participation Arrangements prior to inclusion in the SIGEF
component and Institutional Restructuring Agreements as a prerequisite for
eligibility for assistance under the Public Entity Restructuring component -
should ensure ownership in affected institutions.
25.   Rationale for Bank hIvolvement. Public sector reform and
institutional strengthening are central themes of the Bank's country assistance
strategy, as considered by the Board on June 1, 1993. The proposed project
is thus fully consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy. The
public sector reforms, supported by the proposed project, would address
many of the issues that have adversely affected the implementation of
externally financed projects in Ecuador and would also promote coordination
among executing agencies and external financiers (e.g., USAID, IDB)
involved in the administrative reform process. Moreover, Ecuador's
stabilization program is being supported by a recently approved two-year
IMF Standby. Bank assistance under the project (as well as a Structural
Adjustment Loan and other concurrent operations) would address structural
issues on the expenditure side underlying the persistent fiscal deficits while
creating the institutional conditions necessary for strengthening the
Government's ability to deliver services in priority areas.
26.   Environmental Aspects. The proposed project is not expected to
have any environmental impact and has, therefore, been assigned a "C"
classification.
27.   Participatory Approach. The Government's Modernization of the
State program was established by the Legislature of the Republic of Ecuador,
as enacted in the Public Budgets Law of 1992 and the Modernization of the
State Law of 1993. Thus, the overall approach has been debated and
endorsed by representatives of the general public through the legislative
assembly. The project supports the implementation of this initiative with a
fundamentally participatory approach: rather than imposing reforms
unilaterally on public entities, the project makes assistance available to public
entities on a voluntary basis, conditional on their willingness to use technical
assistance to implement the Government's Modernization of the State



10
program. The affected agencies will thus have the opportunity to stage their
own programs, according to agreed criteria. CONAM, as the central
coordinating agency, will moreover act as the focal point for ensuring that
reforms respond to the interests of the public being served.
28. Program Objective Categorv. The objective of this project is to
improve public sector management; hence, the Program Objective Category
is Economic Management.
29.   Project Benefits. In the medium-term, the proposed project would
help reduce public sector involvement in the economy; strengthen
administrative capacity, especially in the allocation of public expenditures;
and improve service delivery in areas that remain within the public sector
(through a strengthened and better paid civil service). In the short term, the
Government's ability to manage its fiscal resources and development projects
will be enhanced. If fully implemented, public sector reform will be a key
element in the sustainability of Ecuador's adjustment efforts, thus reinforcing
the actions being undertaken in the context of the Structural Adjustment
Loan.
30.   Risks. The main project risks include the inherent complexity of the
reforms coupled with weak institutional capacity, and possible adverse
political and labor reactions as the direction of reforms becomes clearer. If
the pace of implementation of the reforms does not accelerate, it is possible
that the Government will not be able to complete its agenda before its term
expires in mid-1996. The project design addresses these risks by providing
for extensive assistance, training and mechanisms for coordination of project
activities and upgrading of institutional capacity needed to quickly launch and
sustain the momentum of the reform program. The Coordination of the
Reform Program component includes activities designed to mitigate the risks
of adverse political and labor reaction and the possible lack of continuity in
carrying forward reforms after the scheduled change in administration. Also,
the recent high-level appointments to CONAM reinforce the Govermment's
commitment to the modernization process, after a protracted political debate.
CONAM's new officials have brought a new dynamism to the institution and
to the Government's program. Other risks include possible delays due to
lack of continuity in project staff and slow contracting procedures. However,
experience under the PPF has been good in this respect.
31.   Agreed Actions. The Govermnent and the Bank have reached the
following agreements:
(a)   The Government would make an initial deposit of
US$250,000 of counterpart funds to the account required by



11
Section 3.01 (e)(i) of the Legal Agreement for this loan, and
that account would be periodically replenished to ensure that
counterpart fund requirements identified in the Technical
Annex (for the first year of project execution) and the Annual
Operating Plans (for subsequent years) will be met at all times
during the life of the project.
(b)   As conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i)   All "core" agencies (SGP, SENDA, BCE, CGE,
CONAM) will have signed Inter-agency Participation
Arrangements with MFCP; and
(ii)  The Government would enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with CONAM providing for the
administration of loan proceeds and coordination of
project execution.
(c)   As conditions of disbursement:
(i)  for each "remaining" ministry requesting finance for
their informatics and training requirements, that it shall
have executed an Inter-agency Participation
Arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)  for each Government agency rqung assistance under
the Public Sector Modernization Component, that it
shall have signed an Institutional Restructuring
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii)  under the Strengthening of the Planning Function
subcomponent, that the Twining Agreement shall have
been executed.



12
32.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 21, 1994



13
Schedule A
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Project Component                               loa               Foreign         Total
---USml miLon---
A. Publc Financial  anagement & Control           6.8               8.2          15.0
1. Budget System
a. Medium-Term Budgetary Framework       0.2               0.2           0.4
b. Budget Formulation                    0.6               0.3           0.9
c. Budget Execution                      0.4               0.1           0.5
d. Program Control and Evaluation        0.3               0.2           0.5
2. Public Credit System                       0.3              0A4            0.7
3. Government Accounting and Treasury         0.5              0.5            1.0
4. Audit of Public Resources                  0.2              0.5            0.7
5. Public Contracting                         0.1              0.1            0.2
6. Payroll and Personnel System               0.1                             0.1
7. SIGEF - Integrated Financial Mgmt. System  4.0              5.9            9.9
B. PubUc Sector Modernization                     3.2               0.6           3.8
1. Strengthening of the Planning Framework    0.3              0.2           0.5
2. Restructuring and Management Strengthening
a. Decentralization Plan                 0.2               0.2           0.4
b. Establishment of the Framework        0.4                             0.4
c. Planning of Reorganizations            1.0                            1.0
d. Restructuring Implementation           1.1              0.0           1.1
3. Coordination of Public Sector Training     0.3              0.2            0.5
C. Coordination of the Reform Program             2.7               1.4           4.1
1. Definition of the Role of the State        0.05             0.02          0.07
2. Decentralization Policy                    0.04             0.0            0.05
3. Dissemination                              0.4                             0.4
4. Project Audit                              0.2                             0.2
5. Project Coordination Unit                  2.1              1.4            3.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                              12.8             10.1          22.9
Physical Contingencies                        0.7              0.7            1.4
Price Contingencies                           0.4              0.3            0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               13.9             11.1          25.0



14
Schedule A
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Lkoad     Eoegn             Tot
-US$million---
Government              8 !                          5.0
Bank                    8.9            11.1          20.0
Total                  13.-9           11.125.



15
EC.UADOR                                   Schedule B
MODERIZATION OF THE STATE TECCHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
PROCUREMENT MEODS A  DISBURSEMENTS
A. PROCUREMENT'
(US$ milionu)
Procreent Methods
Project Element               :                                               Total
ICB        LIB      Shopping       Other
1. Technical Assistance2
-  Consultants' Services                                                  11.9         11.9
__________ .________    . _________      (11.3)      (11.3)
2. Equipment and Materials
-  SIGEF network                      4.0        4.0                                    8.1
(3.1)      (3.1)                                 (6.2)
-  Other Computers and Equipment                              0.8                       0.8
(0.6)                    (0.6)
- Service Contracts'
0.3         0.3
(0.3)        0.3
3. Training4                                                                  1.5          1.5
(0.9)       (0-9)
4. Site Management' and Incremental      1.4                                  1.0          2.4
Operating Costs                      (0.4)                                (0.3)       (0.7)
TOTAL                              5.5        4.0         0.8          14.7        25.0
(3.5)      (3.1)       (0.6)       (12.8)       (20.0)
1. Including contingencies. Figures rounded; those in parenthesis are the respective amounts
to be financed by the Bank loan.
2. Includes procurement of technical assistance services according to Bank Guidelines for
contracting consultants.
3. Debt Management System may need to follow direct conracting should only one viable
source be available.
4. Training will be contracted following procedures for consultan; materia inputs will be
procured by local shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
5. SIGEF site management costs to be included in the same SIGEF system bid as above.



16
Schedule B
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
PROCVREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
B. DISBURSEMENTS
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
CATEGORY               Amount (US$ million)     % of expenditures
to be financed
1. Consultants' Services               9.2            100%, net of taxes
2. Equipment, Materials and                           90% of foreign
Information Systems                                expenditures and 60% of
2.a. IFMS                            5.6           local expenditures
2.b. Other                           0.3
3. Training                             0.7           60% of foreign
expenditures, net of
taxes, and 60% of local
expenditures
4. Site Management and                  0.7           60% until withdrawal
Incremental Operating Costs                        has reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
US$500,000, and 30%
thereafter until the fusll
allocated amount is
completely widrawn.
5. Refinancing of PPF                   1.5
6. Unalocated                           2.0
TOTAL                       20.0



17
Schedule B
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS (in US$ nmillon)
IRD Fiscal Year  FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98    FY9           FYOO
Annual             1.2      1.6     3.2      4.8       5.6     3.6
Cunulative         1.2      2.8      6.0     10.8     16.4    20.0
-.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~--    I                    _1m     12



18
Schedule C
MODERNI:ZAION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TIMETABLE OJ' KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare               20 months
(b) Prepared by                         Government of Ecuador, local consultants
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ and     B ank
(c) First IBRD mission                  March 1993
(d) Apprisa mission                     June 1994
(e) Negotiations                        November 1994
(D Planned date of effectiveness        January 1995



19
Schedule D
M0X111E O-F TESTATE -111CAI. ASSISANG-E RJ
STATUS OF BAN GRiOUP LOANS AND IIA CREDITS
(as of Septeme  30  19941
.              US$ Milion
Anmount Oe cellations)
Loan or     Fiscal     Borrower          Purpose            Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Credit      Year
Number
41 Ions and six credits fuilly disbursed                        991.9       37.5               0.0
2752         1987      Ecuador       Agricultu  Credit li        48.0      -                   2.7
2774         1987      EMAP-G        (uayaquil Water             31.0      -                  4.9
Supply li
2898         1988      Ecuador       Housing                     60.0      -                  0.2
3162         1990      Ecuador       4th Small Scale             50.0      -                  15.2
Enterprise
3276         1991      Ecuador       Lower Guayas Flood          59.0                        49.4
Control
3285         1991      Ecuador       Municipal                  104.0      -                 79.6
Development
3390         1992      Ecuador       Rural Development           84.0      -                 46.7
3425         1992      Ecuador        1st Social                 89.0                        69.4
Development
3510         1993      Ecuador       Soc Dev WIlHeatth           70.0      -                 63.2
360          1993      CFN           Private Sector              75.0      -                 62.3
Development
3655         1994      Ecuador       T.A. Mioing                 14.0      -                  14.0
3707         1994      Ecuador       Social investment           30.0      -                 20.0
Fund
37301        1994      Ecuador        krigation T.A.             20.0                        20.0



20
USS Millon
Amount mess cancellations)
Loan or     Fiscal    Borrower          Purpose           Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Credit      Year
Number                                   .
Total number of loans                                13       734.0                       447.6
TOTAL                                                        1,725.9      37.5
of which has been repaid                                      594.2       9.7
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                       1,131.7       27.8
AMOUNT SOLD                                                    3.21
of which has been repaid                                       3.21
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                               1L128.7
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                         447.6
Not yet effective.



21
Schedule E
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TEC(INICAL ASSISTANCE PROIECT
STATEMENT OF IFC DuVESTMENTS
(as of September 30. 1994)
(__ia Gross Commiments
PI"  Year           Ob40r               Type of         IFDC       nC        Participants    TOtal   Hed          d by   NeUndlabused
Commlfted                               BUSIeh          IAOD     Equity                              by      P    idpa       (I
1966/72       La Iternacional S.A.'   Textiles          2.51     0.22       1.24            3.97
1980          Adamas Andina S.A.'   Timber, pulp and   3.25      1.00                       4.25
paper
1981          Minera Toachi S.A.'    Nonftrous          1.00     0.25                       1.25
metals
1976          Sociedad Agrfcola e    Food and           5.00                                5.00
Industr  San Carlos    agnbusiness
S.A.'
1978/8018218   La Cemento Nacional'   Cement and       12.00     1.06                       13.06
3/84                                 constrwudon
1969n3/75/7   Ecuatoriana de         Development        4.00     0.59                       4.59    1.56
7181/82/88    Desarrollo Compafila    Fmancing
Fmnanciera (COFIEC)
1988          Facturas               Capital markets             0.09                       0.09
Internaciouales'



22
JOrig     Gross Commitmes
Fiscal Year         Obligor             Type of         IFC       IFC       Partcipants    Total   Held      Held by      Undisbursed
Committed                               Business       Loan      Equity                             by     Participants     (Including
I__ ___ __ ___     JIFC                                              PF dpants)
1987          Minera Kolla S.A.     Mining             9.00     4.40                       13.40
1993          Tripetrol Exploration    Energy          10.00                               10.00   10.00
1994          Rey Banam del          Food and          10.00               5.00            15.00   10.00
Pacifico              agrnbsiness
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS2                56.76     7.61       6.24            70.61
Less: Cancelladon, Terminations,        35.51     7.30       6.24           49.05
Repyme  & Sales
TOTAL COMMITMENITS NOW HELD3            21.25     0.31                       21.56   21.56   0.00           0.00
Penig Commitments:
Endesa-Botrosa        Forest Products    4.00     1.00                       5.00
TOTAL COMMITMENTS HELD AND              25.25     1.31       0.00            26.56
PENDING COMMnIMENTS
TOTAL UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS                                                0.00
Investments which have been filly cancelled, terninated, written off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
2 Gross CoMMt          COnist of approved     signed projects.
3 Held Commitment consist of disbursed and undibsbursed Investments.



