Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22895
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38220; SCL-3822A; SCPD-3822S; PPFB-P2060; TF-25279)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR
FOR A
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
%,2j December 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency U:nit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCE           Central Bank of Ecuador (Banco Central del Ecuador)
CAE           Ecuadorian Customs Corporation (Corporaci6n Aduanera Ecuatoriana)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CGE           Comptroller General's Office (Contwaloria Gene,ral del Estado)
CIP          Inter-Agency Participation Arrangements (Convenio de Participaci6n Interinstucional)
CONAM         National Council for the Modernization of the State (Consejo Nacional de Modernizacion del Estado)
CONAREM       National Council for Remunerations (Consejo Nacional de Remuneraciones)
CRI           Institutional Restructuring Agreemernt (Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional)
GOE           Govemment of Ecuador
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDB           Inter-American Developmenit Bank
IFM           Integrated Financial Management
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           Limited International Bidding
ODEPLAN       Office of National Planning (Oficina Nacional de Planificacion)
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas)
MOP           Memorandum of the President
MOSTA         Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
OSCIDI        Civil Service and Institutional Development Office (Oficina de Servicio Civil y Desarrollo
Institicional)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PGR           Attorney General's Office (Procuraduria General de la Republica)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SCP           Undersecretariat of Pub,ic C'redit of MEF (Subsecretaria de Credito Publico del MEF)
SENDA         National Secretariat for Administrative Development (Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo
Administrativo)
SGP           General Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria General de Planificaci6n)
SIGADE        External Debt Management Svstem (Sistema de Gesti6n y Administraci6n de Deuda Externa)
SIGEF         Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera)
SRI           Internal Revenue Service (Servicio de Rentas Interno)
SP            Undersecretariat of Budget of MEF (Subsecretaria de Presupuestos del MEF)
ST            Undersecretariat of Treasury of MEF (Subsecretaria del Tesoro del MEF)
TA            Technical Assistance
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Cotntry Manager/Director:    Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Marcelo A. Romero



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MODERNIZATION OF STATE PROJECT'
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Cormments                                                               18
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                            34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007136                                       Project Name: ECUADOR MODERNIZATION OF
THE STATE TA
Team Leader: Marcelo A. Romero                            TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ECUADOR MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE             L/C/TF Number: CPL-38220;
TA                                                           SCL-3822A;
SCPD-3822S;
PPFB-P2060;
TF-25279
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/03/1994                             Effective:                    05/11/1995
Appraisal:  04/18/1994                                MTR:                      04/30/1997
Approval:  12/13/1994                              Closing: 06/30/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/NATIONAL COUNCIL OF MODERNIZATION OF
THE STATE (CONAM)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel Guerrero                           Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Claudia Maria Costin
Team Leader at ICR:  Marcelo A. Romero                          Suzana Campos Augusto
ICR Primary Author:  Marcelo A. Romero and Samuel
Taffesse. Maria Carmen Minoso
translated Annex 1.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objectives, as defined in the Memorandum of the President (MOP)', was
to assist the Government of Ecuador (GOE) to: "(a) improve the framework, procedures and
systems for the Borrower's public sector financial management and control; (b) lay the strategic
foundations and provide initial support for the restructuring of the Borrower's public sector,
creating the basis for greater administrative efficiency and operational effectiveness; and (c
provide efficiency, sustainability and transparency to the Borrower's public sector reform efforts".
Although the project objectives were enumerated in terms of three objectives, the main thrust of
the project was improving the institutional capacity and efficiency of the public sector in line with
the modernization strategy of the Government.  The project was designed to ensure the
achievement and sustainability of the fiscal and management objectives embodied in the
modernization strategy of the GOE.
The Project objectives, along with other concurrent operations (such as the Structural Adjustment
Loan No. 3819-EC), were designed to address structural issues on the expenditure side, whicl
were the underlying causes for the persistent fiscal deficits, while creating the institutional
conditions necessary for strengthening the GOE's ability to deliver services in priority areas. The
objectives were fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)2 for Ecuador,
the central theme of which is public sector reform and institutional strengthening. The Project
was anchored in the Government's modernization strategy, which was built around two basic
principles: (i) imposition of timely and reliable controls and (ii) the creation of strong incentives
for public agencies to produce needed public services effectively and efficiently. The Project was
complex, inter alia, due to the large number of public sector institutions involved in its
implementation. However, the MOP argued that the design of the Project was appropriate to the
borrower circumstances, given that "[m]ultiple public agencies with overlapping programs and
jurisdictions comprise a complex institutional structure that lacks coordination and has a
widespread inefficiencies, affecting planning and budgeting."3
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision to the original objective was made.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project was composed of three components with 15 subcomponents:
a) Public Financial Management and Control Program
This component had seven subcomponents: (i) public budget and treasury system subcomponent
to strengthen the medium-term budgetary framework, budget formulation and execution
processes, and program control and evaluation; (ii) debt management/public credit system
subcomponent to improve planning for public debt and cash management, procedures for debt
servicing and establishing the related information flows to manage the treasury function, and
training of staff, (iii) government accounting subcomponent was planned to improve the
accounting process through decentralization and by improving the timeliness of the accounting
cycle; (iv) audit of public resources subcomponent to help the Comptroller General's Office
(CGE) in its modernization effort while focusing on the implementation of the audit and control
- 2 -



provisions of the new Budget Law of December 1992; (v) public sector contracting
subcomponent to modernize the legal framework and operating practices for public sector
contracting; (vi) payroll and personnel system subcomponent to integrate management of human
resources throughout the public sector with the rest of financial management in an integrated and
distributed manner; and (vii) integration of information systems subcomponent to ensure that
information systems required to support financial and administrative functions throughout the
Ecuadorian public sector were compatible and interconnected.
b) Public Sector Modernization Program
This component was composed of three subcomponents, which included: (i) strengthening the
planning framework and augmenting the analytic and institutional capacities of the General
Secretary of Planning (SGP) to carry out its investment planning function; (ii) restructuring the
public sector and strengthening management including development of a national decentralization
plan, undertaking a public employee census, and restructuring public entities; and (iii)
coordination of public sector training targeted at key offices in the central government to meet the
requirements of the Modernization of the State initiative.
c) Coordination of the Reform Program:
This component was composed of five subcomponents which included: (i) defining the role of the
State, analyzing legislation, developing a consultation system and reformulating draft
macro-institutional policy; (ii) supporting the National Council for the Modernization of the State
(CONAM) in formulating a decentralization policy; (iii) a public relations program to explain in
detail the specific administrative and legislative initiatives to be supported by the proposed loan;
(iv) annual private external audits of project accounts; and (v) project management, coordinated
by CONAM, with agencies responsible for implementing specific activities. Policymaking
authority rests with the executive directiror of CONAM and a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
was established.
The Project's components were related to the achievement of project objectives and addressed
key elements of the GOE's modernization strategy. The Project's extensive and complex
subcomponents were aimed at creating sound public financial management and providing
appropriate framework for public sector modernization.
Project design took into consideration relevant lessons from previous Bank operations in the
sector. Specifically, the project identified the importance of careful preparation, focused
implementation, and adequate supervision, in addition to the need for periodic project evaluations
that would permit adjustments in the design and implementation arrangements during project
execution. The design also included the signing of Interagency Participation Arrangements (CIP)
and Institutional Restructuring Agreements (CRI) to ensure ownership in coexecuting
governmental agencies. In addition, lessons learned from successful Technical Assistance (TA)
projects were applied, especially the need for in-depth analytic and sector work preceding any
public-sector reform TA projects.  Preparation of this project was preceded by a Public
Expenditure Review, which analyzed the fundamental issues facing Ecuador's public sector,
including its budgetary and civil service arrangements.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in the Project's original components. However, during the December
1997 supervision mission, an agreement was reached to narrow the scope of the Project to focus
on public financial management through improved information and institutional change. A change
in the priorities of the new government was the reason for reducing the scope of the components.
During the supervision mission of February 1999, which was followed by a discussion in May, the
government agreed with to focus the project activities on: (i) introducing, as soon as possible, the
Integrated Financial Management System (SIGEF) at the central and institutional levels, with
maximum coverage in the executive central government; (ii) advancing quickly in the
organizational and functional restructuring of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF); (iii)
moving ahead with the definition of a decentralization and deconcentration policy; and (iv)
making additional efforts to show a marked progress in human resource management reform.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project's quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory by the ICR Team. However, the MOP was
not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and hence no rating is available on quality
at entry from QAG. Main reasons for the rating are the following:
Consistency of project's objectives with the CAS: As described above in section 3.2, the Project
was designed to address two of the CAS objectives -- public sector reform and institutional
strengthening. According to the Country Assistance Evaluation of 2001, the reform of public
sector institutions is still an important program for the Government. In fact, after considering the
past 16 years experience in the country, the Bank acknowledges the importance of public sector
modernization as useful elements for a new CAS. Thus, the project objectives were consistent
not only with the CAS of 1993 but also with the current thinking on Ecuador's public sector
reform.
GOE's commitment: The Ecuadorian Government's request for Bank assistance in modernization
of the state was preceded by the enactment of specific laws: the Public Budgets Law of 1992 to
strengthen financial controls, and the Modernization of State Law of 19936 on the modernization
of the state, privatization and provision of public services by private enterprises. The Government
commitment was clearly demonstrated through its decision to place the management of the
project under CONAM, a high-level Governmental entity under the Office of the President, in
charge of managing, coordinating and supervising the modernization process. Nevertheless, the
Government's commitment was not maintained at the same level throughout the Project
implementation.
Safeguard policies: The Bank's safeguard policies were not applicable for this project since the
Project was designed as a TA project aimed at supporting the Government in its modernization of
the public sector.
Project risks: The complexity of the reforms coupled with weak institutional capacity and the
possible adverse political and labor reactions to the reforms were the main risks identified by the
MOP. The Project expected to control these risks by providing extensive assistance, training and
- 4 -



mechanisms for coordination of project activities and upgrading of institutional capacity needed to
quickly launch and sustain the momentum of the reform program. The Project also relied on the
activities of the Coordination of the Reform Program as a mitigation measure for the adverse
political and labor reaction and the possible lack of continuity in carrying forward reforms after
the scheduled change in administration.
Project design. The number of institutions involved in implementation of the different activities
made project design complex. The Project components were limited to three but the 15
sub-components and their ambitious targets contributed to the complexity of the project. In fact,
the Project could have narrowed its scope to the most important and critical impediments in the
improvement of public sector modernization. Original design failed to evaluate the legal
impediments and problems related to public sector assets divestment to implement public sector
reform. The narrowing of the scope of the project twice revealed the execessive range of areas to
be covered by the Project and thus its overly ambitious design. Although, this ICR acknowledges
the rationale for including all the factors that affect the public sector, they could have been
addressed in subsequent phase of TA project. Therefore, the Project quality at entry is rated
Unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory.
Improve the framework, procedures and systems for the Borrower's public sector financial
management and control: The achievement of this objective is rated Satisfactory.
The project effectively achieved improvements in the country's public sector financial
management and control. To complement existing laws, new key pieces of enabling legislation
were drafted, including the Public Finance Control Law (Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalizaci6n
y Auditoria), and the Public Financial Management Law (Ley Organica de Gestion Financiera
del Estado). The latter is expected to be submitted to Congress by November 2001. The Control
law will end the ex-ante control by Comptroller General's Office (Controlaria General del Estado
-- CGE) and will eliminate the functional duplication of the MEF and CGE on the issuance of
accounting standards. This law also made each entity responsible for its internal control and gave
MEF and CGE joint jurisdiction for setting accounting standards. The Financial Management
Law, on the other hand, will allow the application of the principles of centralized standard setting
and decentralized operations, enabling the various agencies to assume direct responsibility for the
administration of their own institutional financial management system, programming and
execution of public investment.
Regarding procedures and systems, the Project designed and implemented standardized financial
management tools that integrated the processes of planning, budgeting, accounting and cash
management in the public sector. These tools became the main output of the project and their
utilization were made mandatory by MEF in all nonfinancial public sector entities in Ecuador. All
these systems and procedures designed and implemented by the Project have proven to be
effective instruments for modernizing and strengthening public sector financial management,
-5 -



ensuring reliability and transparency, and improving timely data provision for decision-making.
Lay the strategic foundations and provide initial support for the restructuring of the Borrower's
public sector, creating the basis for greater administrative efficiency and operational
effectiveness: The achievement of this objective is rated Satisfactory.
The Project designed reforms necessary to define the new role of the state as planner, regulator,
policy maker and controller. The private sector's role was also defined as works executor and
basic services provider. Changes proposed were adopted by the Constitutional Assembly and
included in the new Political Constitution of Ecuador enacted in 1998. According to the new
role of the state and based on focalization agreed with the Bank during implementation, the
Project supported the institutional restructuring of key governmental bodies dealing with
economy and finance (MEF and the Central Bank of Ecuador -- BCE), planning (ODEPLAN),
human resources administration (Civil Service and Institutional Development Office -- OSCIDI),
and control/auditing (CGE). The most important outcome was the restructuring of MEF to (i)
lead the fiscal and macroeconomic policies of the country and (ii) streamline procedures and
provide autonomy in tax collection to the Internal Revenue Service (SRI) and give control and
operation of customs to the Ecuadorian Customs Corporation (CAE). The creation of SRI and
its sound management contributed significantly to the improvement of tax collection observed in
recent years. CAE's performance has not improved significantly the problems facing customs
controls.
The restructuring processes applied and new procedures implemented have produced lower
administrative costs due to a reduction in personnel, decrease in the duplication of tasks and
improvement in resource allocation. These impacts are expected to contribute to the eliminationi
of discretionary allocation of resources, specifically in the transfer of financial resources from the
MEF to other government entities.
The Project document identified divestments of public assets and Government budgetary support
as means to finance severance payment to employees made redundant and to pay for salary
increase for those who remain in the public sector. While it was not planned to finance this
activity through the Project, it was expected that the Government would implement this activity as
part of the modernization process. Since the public institutions lacked legal authority for
divesting and using the resources directly, this activity was partially accomplished. Recently, the
legal impediment that prevented public institutions from directly using resources from divestments
of assets was removed. Also, lack of reliable inventory complicated the divesting of public
assets.
Provide efficiency, sustainability and transparency to the Borrower's public sector reform
efforts: The achievement of this objective is rated Satisfactory
The financial management systems designed and implemented by the Project; the new laws
enacted; and the draft laws that were prepared ensured the efficiency and sustainability of the
public sector modernization the reforms. The Project has laid the basis for e-government, that
helps provide the public with information on governmental institutions' financial reports, budget
- 6 -



formulation and budget execution.  The e-government effort will eventually ensure the
transparency of the Government activities in financial management and planning.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Public Financial Management and Control Program:
The overall achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.
(i) Public budget and treasury system: Satisfactory.
The Project designed and implemented an Integrated Financial Management System (SIGEF) for
the Public Sector at the institutional level, however, at the global level it is still under
implementation. The SIGEF links budget and accounting operations and provides reliable and
timely information on the status of public sector finance.  The information on budget
implementation and its accounting registry become a key element for decisionmaking at the
sectoral, regional and national levels. SIGEF introduced qualitative changes in GOE's financial
management by linking the planning function with budget formulation. Each central governnent
institution has to present its annual operating plan, linking budget allocation to planned activities.
The plans of these public institutions were based on fiscal policies and budget ceilings provided by
MEF, which manages the consolidated budget and controls its execution according to the cash
flows presented by these institutions. By project closing, SIGEF has been introduced in 20
central government entities and in 62 provincial units of Ministries of Education, Health,
Agriculture, Housing and Industry. Eighty-four percent of the central government's 2001 budget
is expected to be carried using the SIGEF and for the first time the budget for 2002 would be fully
formulated and consolidated according to the SIGEF norms and procedures. MEF has made
adoption of SIGEF's technical norms, procedures and forms mandatory for all nonfinancial public
sector institutions. The system would ensure a timely and standardized presentation of budget
accounts and financial reports.
(ii) Public credit system: Satisfactory. Through this sub-component, the Project provided the
MEF with a proposal to reform the public credit management system which is under
implementation. The new organizational structure of the Public Credit Undersecretary of the
MEF is also under implementation. In addition, through this sub-component the Project
supported the MEF by installing and implementing UNCTAD's External Debt Management
System (SIGADE) for the management of public debt and debt service. Project support included
technical assistance and training for the implementation of SIGADE and its parallel operation with
SIGEF.
(iii) Government accounting and treasury: Highly Satisfactory. Under this subcomponent new
tools for financial management were adopted (such as accounts catalog, a budget classifier, and
principles and technical norms for government accounts) and the financial law reformed to make
MEF the normative body for public accounts. A simplified process of budget transfer to public
institutions was achieved through the introduction of an a system for annual cash programming
and monthly allocation that is linked to annual budget projections. Under this system the MEF
makes lump sum (non itemized) transfers to all institutions with responsibily for managing their
own resources for the activities and payments approved by the Ministry. This has resulted in
improved accountability and ownership of the budget, reduced discretionary allocation of
-7 -



resources, and better control over expenditures and cash management by the MEF. An important
tool for the management of financial assets was the creation at the Central Bank of a single "T"
account for each institution to receive its transfer from the MEF. This reform has resulted in the
use of private banking networks, sped up public sector payment process, and reduced the number
of accounts public institutions have at the Central Bank.
(iv) Auditing: Unsatisfactory. The project supported CGE's modernization by providing
equipment, developing and implementing a Works Control System and drafting the Public Finance
Control Law (Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalization y Auditoria). The Comptroller General
presented the law to Congress for approval in January 2000. A preliminary debate on the
proposals has been conducted in the Congress and a second debate is scheduled. A proposal to
create an Internal Audit Office for the executive branch of the Government was prepared and
presented to the Presidency.  Apart from  presentation of the law, the success of this
subcomponent was limited due to lack of commitment by CGE and delays in decisionmaking.
(v) Public contracting: Unsatisfactory. Through this sub-component a new Public Contracting
Law was prepared and presented to the Presidency in December 1997 and to the Congress in
April 1998. During the preparation of this proposal the PCU applied a wider participatory
approach in which all important stakeholders were consulted. The proposal is still awaiting
approval by Congress. The delay in enacting the law has hindered implementation of the changes
included in the law.  The unsatisfactory result of this subcomponent is due to lack of
decisionmaking by the legislative body of the Government in passing the law.
(vi) Payroll and personnel system: Satisfactory. This sub-component financed the modernization
of human resources administration through the creation of, (i) OSCIDI, replacing the National
Secretary for Administrative Development (SENDA), to control personnel transfers and human
resources statistics, and (ii) National Remuneration Council (CONAREM), to monitor public
sector remunerations. The former was designed as a technical secretariat to support the latter.
Important outputs were the design and implementation of Payroll System and creation of
personnel database under SIGEF for human resources management in 16 of the 20 public sector
institutions using the SIGEF. The plan developed an interface between the Payroll System and
the human resources statistical information system. These subsystems are facilitating the
decentralization of human resources management to regional entities. These subsystems are
instrumental for generating statistical information on human resources in general and public
expenditure in the management of human resources in particular.
(vii) Supporting information systems: Satisfactory. As described in section 4.2.1 (i) above, the
SIGEF system constituted the main information system output of the Project. During this ICR
mission, it was found out that SIGEF is in use at three levels of the Central Government: (i)
SIGEF Institutional, which is used in most government agencies to control budget execution,
perform treasury-ledger accounting and cash management; (ii) SIGEF Global, which is used by
the Subsecretary for Budget of the MEF to track approved budgets and changes; (iii) SIGEF
Treasury, used by the Subsecretary of the Treasury of the MEF to prepare treasury statement
(which includes sources and application of funds) and control monthly cash programming. A
simplified SIGEF is also provided to institutions with small number of transactions. Important
- 8 -



accomplishments under this sub-component include the development of the "Modelo de
Convenios" under SIGEF Institutional to provide financial management information required by
international lenders. Although the SIGEF is working effectively at present it has yet to reach its
potential in terms of coverage of the percentage of budget processed using the system.
Furthermore key processes, such as consolidation by sector or booking of execution in SIGEF
Global were not completed.
Component 2: Public Sector Modernization Program: The achievement of this component is
rated Satisfactory.
(i)Development and strengthening of the strategic planning function: Highly Satisfactory.
The creation of ODEPLAN, replacing SGP, as a technical unit under the Office of the Presidency
responsible for planning, was implemented as part of the modernization process. The Project
equipped ODEPLAN with operating systems and fiber optics to perform its task efficiently.
Through the installed systems critical information related to socioeconomic indicators, statistics
for economic activities, geographical information, data on protected areas, to mention a few, both
at regional and national levels, were made available through the INFOPLAN system. Creation of
a database to monitor the completion of institutional strategic plans and annual operational plans
for public sector entities, developed by the project in ODEPLAN, will be an important tool in
budget preparation, monitoring, and increasing accountability. Through this sub-component the
strengthening of GOE's institutional capacity to carry out investment planning task was also
achieved.
(ii) Public sector restructuring and management strengthening: Satisfactory.  The Project
established the basis for decentralization, deconcentration, and greater autonomy at all levels.
Some activities, including resource budgeting, were transferred to regional and branch offices of
Ministries of Public Works, Health and Tourism. The decentralization plan prepared with support
from the Bank and technical assistance from GTZ was presented to the Presidency. To implement
the plan a special unit under the Office of the Presidency was created and the issue remains on top
of the political agenda. As mentioned in section 4.1 above, MEF and the Central Bank were
reorganized as part of the public sector restructuring. The restructuring resulted in an average
annual increase of 8.5 percent in tax collection for the period 1995-2000,' streamlined procedures
in customs and defined roles for fiscal and macroeconomic management. As part of this
component: (i) five core institutions were restructured under CRI agreements; (ii) five reform
processes were signed with three social sector ministries and two related institutions; (iii) 23 CPI
agreements were signed; (iv) 15 public entities were dissolved; and (v) the number of public
sector personnel was reduced by 10,000 (50 percent of the appraisal estimate). Lack of financial
resources for severance payments remained as the main obstacle in implementing CRI agreements
and deepening public sector reform.
(iii) Coordination of public sector training: Satisfactory. As part of component 1, training in all
aspects of budgetary preparation, planning, public investment and credit, treasury and accounting,
audit of public resources, and public contracting was planned. As part of component 2, personnel
within ODEPLAN were trained in modem planning methodologies, and in monitoring and
-9-



evaluation techniques. A total of 15,726 civil servants were trained: 53 person in use and
management of SIGEF and other systems provided by the Project; and 32 percent in finance,
planning and personnel management functions; and the 15 percent in several types of training.
The Project provided 11,219 hours of training through 510 separate events.
Component 3: Coordination of the Reform Program
The achievement of this component is rated Satisfactory.
(i) Definition of the Role of the State: Satisfactorv. The Project supported the design of the
macro-institutional policy in line with the new subsidiary role of the state, established in the new
Constitution of August 1998. As part of public sector reform, this sub-component's activities
were directed to selected governmental entities and sectors to adopt their activities towards
promotion, deregulation, privatization and concessions to the private sector. Achievements in
public sector reform could also be considered as applicable to this sub-component. Although the
project developed regional public forum for civil society consultation and carried a consultation
process, this sub-component failed to develop a system or a methodology to guide future
consultation process.
(ii) Decentralization policy: Satisfactory. The main activity under this sub-component was to
support CONAM in formulating a decentralization policy. As mentioned in Component 2 (ii), the
project conducted several workshops (including an international workshop) and reviewed various
decentralization proposals and prepared the country's decentralization plan. As part of the
activities of this sub-component, three books were published. Implementation of the proposal
depends on political leadership and commitment as well as the future macroeconomic situation of
the country.  In addition there is still ample room to improve public consultation and
dissemination on issues related to decentralization.
(iii) Dissemination: Unsatisfactory. CONAM's activities in general and the Project's achievements
in particular were not sufficiently disseminated, and effective measures were not taken to obtain
public support to the reform efforts and proposals. Nevertheless, the creation of web pages, the
production of CDs on SIGEF and INFOPLAN (Systema de Informacion para la Planificacion)
could be considered as dissemination of outputs. At the end of the Project, the achievements of
SIGEF and its significant contribution in the modernization of the public sector financial
management were disseminated through two public meetings.
(iv) Project management: Satisfactory. In light of the political situation in which the PCU
operated, the Unit was able to deliver most of the outcomes expected from this Project. The
Project Coordination Unit for MOSTA was established under CONAM. Although placing the
PCU in CONAM showed the importance the Government attached to this Project, the managers
of CONAM were mostly interested in the task of privatization and as a result the activities of the
Project were relegated to a secondary status.
Notwithstanding the fact that the PCU implemented the Project under changing priorities of the
Government and most importantly the different (and frequently changing) managers of the
implementing institutions, the Unit delivered a satisfactory result. The Unit produced quarterly
- 10-



reports on the activities of the Project made, timely delivery of its obligations such as audit
reports, complied with covenants of the LA, and to a large extent was staffed with qualified
professionals.
In summary, the achievement of the Project is no less than a revolution in financial management
practices of Ecuador's public sector, which has reduced administrative costs, reduced duplication
and improved resource allocation. Due to the linkage created between the planning functions and
budget execution, public sector cash management was enhanced. In addition, the ability to
effectively monitor the financial resources of the country, the reduction in discretionality, the
improvement in accountability and transparency, and the availability of a comprehensive data set
for decisionmaking have significantly improved the Government's financial management capacity.
However, to further deepen the systems deployed through this Project, a new project is in the
pipeline as discussed in section 6.2 below. It is worth noting that subcomponent outputs that
were rated unsatisfactory were due to lack of political decisions, changing priorities, and
resistance to change by participating institutions, and were not necessarily due to factors related
to managerial weakness at the PCU.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No net present value or ERR were calculated for the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this Project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional impact of the Project is rated High, for the reasons explained in sections
4.1 and 4.2 above, which highlighted the fact that Ecuador has achieved the ability to make
effective use of its human and financial resources through restructured and strengthened
institutional arrangements. Almost all institutions that deployed the SIGEF are benefiting from an
effective budget processing system through the linkage created between planning and budget
execution.
The Project had implemented several institutional strengthening activities. The main beneficiary
of the institutional restructuring and strengthening was the MEF (including SRI & CAE). In
addition, the project deployed the SIGEF and provided training in the management and use of the
system. The duplicative task done among the different departments of the MEF were clearly
separated and defined. With the amalgamation of the Project Unit, including the staff into the
MEF, the institutional capacity of the Ministry has been strengthened further.
The Project supported the creation of ODEPLAN and its strengthening by providing the
institution with modem office equipments and operating system to support and facilitate the
planning exercise. In the administration of human resources SENDA was dissolved and replaced
by OSCIDI. The Project financed the establishment of several subsystems to help in the
management and administration of the human resources of the public sector. As a part of the
payroll and personnel system modernization, the Project also supported the creation of
CONAREM, which is responsible for monitoring public sector remunerations.
- 11 -



Through this Project, not only the restructuring of these institutions was carried but also training
in the use and management of new the systems, definition of responsibilities, and elimination of
redundant tasks were implemented. In addition, several laws were enacted as part of defining the
role of these institutions and strengthening the reform.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the six-year implementation of this Project, Ecuador went through a severe economic
crisis. Given the budgetary situation, occasionally it was difficult to carry through some reforms,
especially those related to reducing the size of the public sector. Natural disasters, political
instability and the arrival of new players in the political forum may have contributed to shifting the
Government's priorities and to reducing political will to accelerate the pace of the reform. During
this Project's implementation period, there were five changes in government, eleven ministers of
MEF and several changes in all participating Ministries.
The Bank's support for "in-house" development of SIGEF and other project systems helped in
improving the national expertise in the field and in producing systems tailored to the needs,
priorities and legal framework of the country.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The different administrations pledged that modernization of the state as their goal. However, in
most cases that was not translated into practical action. The Central Government did not enforce
sufficiently the implementation of the modernization process. A number of legal proposals, which
are important to deepen the modernization process, are still being debated in the Congress.
Further, due to unfulfilled commitment by the Government to provide financial resources to cover
employee's severance payments and remuneration enhancements to the remaining personnel, the
restructuring of several ministries was thwarted. These were factors under the Government's
control but were not carried out at the pace envisaged by the Project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The establishment of the Project Unit under CONAM had its advantage and limitations. In the
former case, it showed the importance the Government attached to the Project while in the case of
the latter the PCU was misconceived as a privatization agency. The Unit could have diluted such
perception through public campaign and good communication strategy which the Unit failed to
implement to a satisfactory level.
CONAM managers, more by omission than commission, did not fully discharge their duty in
closely following the implementation and the progress of the Project. CONAM did not provide
sufficient support for the implementation of the reforms designed through this Project. For
CONAM the priority has always been the privatization activity and hence the Unit performed
under the shadow of this different priority.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost financing reached US$20.9 million, or 83.6 percent of the appraisal estimate
(US$25 million). Costs for two of the three project components were below appraisal estimates.
Out of the total loan amount of US$20 million, the project disbursed US$18.1 million (or 90.5
- 12-



percent). Counterpart financing reached US$2.7 million (or 56.2 percent) of the appraisal
estimate. Although the Government was under extreme fiscal problem, according to the PCU, it
was always willing to fulfill the counterpart request. The low usage of the counterpart fund can
be attributed to devaluation of the Ecuadorian Sucre.
The Project also benefited from a grant from the Japanese Trust Fund equal to an amount of
US$530,000. The grant disbursed US$497,124 (or 94 percent) of the original disbursement
amount.
During Fiscal 1995, the first year of implementation, the amount of the Loan disbursed was 33.6
percent of the original estimate. The five-month period that elapsed between project approval and
effectiveness may explain the lag observed in FY95. Although by FY96 the Project had captured
the ground lost in FY95, during FY97 (when the Project Implementation Progress was rated as
Unsatisfactory), the project disbursed only 55.5 percent of the absolute amount estimated for the
year. Due to the extension of the closing date by nine months to allow disbursement for SIGEF,
the disbursement estimate was formally revised. The project once more showed a substantial lag
in disbursement during FY2000 and FY2001 and as a result the Project did not disburse the full
amount of the Loan. However, devaluation and the decision to develop the SIGEF system
in-house instead of ICB as planned during appraisal, have contributed to cost saving.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated Likely.
Sustainability of this Projects achievements depends on: (i) the reliability and gains made from the
systems deployed in facilitating and simplifying the tasks of the participating institutions'
budgetary process; (ii) the Government's commitment to deepen the reform; and (iii) the
effectiveness of the institutional restructuring carried and the enactment of the draft laws.
Modem systems for management and control in public finances have proven to be a crucial factor
in facilitating the tasks of MEF. Cash management and budget execution functions (which are
linked to the planning function) that transferred responsibility to each participating ministry and its
agencies have improved ownership, transparency, accountability and cost effectiveness. Given the
fact that decentralization is an important issue in Ecuadorian politics, this project's outputs
provided reliable data for decisionmaking at the national, regional and local level. If the country
remains on the course of decentralization, the system would be invaluable instrument in
implementing decentralization. Further, as a reliable source of public information available to the
public at large and specifically to civil society, it would be a key instrument to improve
governance and control corruption. The usage of SIGEF by local government agencies,
municipalities, and provincial councils will widen its coverage, which in turn would contribute to
the system's sustainability.
In addition, the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL -- Loan 7024-EC) approved by the Bank in
May 2000, contains conditionality that would ensure that the gains made through this Project are
sustained. The SAL specifies for the continuation of the modernization of public sector financial
- 13-



management, specifically the implementation of the new legal framework drafted by the MOSTA
project, extension of the SIGEF and the absorption of the SIGEF into the MEF as conditions for
the Loan. Fulfillment of the conditions for the Loan is expected to ensure the sustainability of the
SIGEF system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project's main outcome, the SIGEF system, has been transferred to the MEF with full
responsibility for the management of the system. The systems installed in the different ministries
and agencies would continue to be managed by respective organizations. Other outcomes of the
project related to institutional strengthening and organizational restructuring have already been
implemented.
Given the advances in the acceptance of the SIGEF product, the training provided to MEF and
the participating institutions, and the proven reliability and effectiveness of the system, the Bank is
preparing a new loan.
A Project Participation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1 million has been approved to support
preparation of this new loan, which would address, among other things (i) the consolidation of the
advances made through the MOSTA project; (ii) expansion of the coverage of SIGEF by
installing the system in more entities; and (iii) improving the technological base of SIGEF.
Additionally, the legal and organizational framework for financial management in the public sector
would be completed. GOE has committed to this new operation through a letter written to the
Bank and the request made for a PPF. "
Also, to support government efforts in deepening the reforms, reducing the role of the State and
opening the way for properly regulated private sector participation in the provision of public
services, the Bank has another new operation under preparation. This new operation is planned
to help the Government in privatizing telecommunications and electricity sectors.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
Unsatisfactory.
The Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory.  Given Ecuador's institutional
complexity and the general failure in financial and human resources management, the Project
design addressed several issues on public sector modernization and adequately defined measurable
results to facilitate project management and control. The project design was preceded by a public
expenditure review. The project preparation team ensured that the Government was committed
to the modernization process before project appraisal. The Project was a reflection of the CAS
and identified several risks to the project's successful implementation.
However, on balance the Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was rated
unsatisfactory. The project preparation team could have simplified the complexity of the Project
- 14-



by reducing the scope of the project activities, in particular the number of subcomponents. This,
inter alia, caused the focus to be changed during project implementation. The Bank should have
had a more realistic view in setting the targets for the Project. A better design of the Project
would have been achieved if the three objectives were stated as a single one. In addition, the
project preparation failed to identify the necessary legal and regulatory mechanisms especially
those related to divestment of public assets. If the Bank had conceptualized modernization as a
long-term process, the Project could have been designed as a predecessor for a follow up project.
Therefore, the Bank's overall performance in lending is Unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the Project is rated Satisfactory.
The Project task management changed only once during project implementation. This high
degree of continuity was important in maintaining the focus on the Project's development
objectives.
Whereas the Bank's Project task-manager changed twice, there were a total of six project
coordinators during the project implementation period. In addition, there were five changes in
CONAM administrators. Supervision missions were composed of staff and consultants covering
the different themes of the Project and its components. Given the institutional complexity of the
project, and the large number of consultant contracts and training events conducted, project
supervision demanded significant resources and a very specific supervision plan. The Bank's
technical support was crucial during the transition period from August 1996 - February 1997.
The Bank supervision provided the project with international experience (more importantly from
the Latin America Region) in modernization processes, specifically in the development of public
financial systems.
However, at an early stage in Project implementation, when it was clear the Project was not
proceeding well towards achieving its development objectives, the Bank continued to rate it as
satisfactory. The Bank's supervision mission corrected this problem in 1997, when for the first
time the Project's Implementation Progress was rated as unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated Satisfactory.
The GOE demonstrated its commitment to modernization of the state by enacting key laws prior
to requesting the Bank's support. Also, the creation of CONAM under the Office of the
Presidency and the request for a PPF for the preparation of the Project demonstrated the
Government's commitment. The GOE complemented its modernization agenda with the Public
Enterprises Reform Project (Loan 3821-EC) financed by the Bank and executed in parallel with
this Project.
- 15-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during implementation is rated Unsatisfactory.
The success of this Project and the achievement of its Development Objectives relied heavily on
political commitment. Initially, the Government assigned the highest priority to the modernization
process. However, with a change in administrations, the stated commitment to the modernization
process was not followed through into practical terms. In light of the frequent changes in the
different ministries and other institutions, ensuring that the Project's objectives were maintained
has always been a time consuming process. More often than not, the Government's priorities
were changing, making it difficult to maintain the momentum during implementation.
More pressure to enforce changes in some autonomous government entities was needed to
accelerate implementation of the modernization process. Due to these observed limitations,
Government implementation performance is rated as Unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Unit performance in implementation is rated Satisfactory
The PCU maintained the Project's objectives despite project complexity, political instability and
institutional conflicts. In general, the Unit maintained high quality staff and supported the
development of national expertise in financial managements systems design, implementation and
maintenance.  The PCU performed its task under changing management in the different
institutions which forced the Unit to continue dialoguing with the new management on the
priorities and programs of the project.
The Unit delivered good monitoring and supervision of the project, but was too optimistic in
expecting a timely response of participating institutions in implementing SIGEF, which finally
resulted in the extension of the Loan by nine months.
The PCU should have actively disseminated the importance and the advantage of the new system.
This would have reduced the observed resistance in some institutions to the implementation of the
system. A good communication strategy could have garnered enough support to the Project and
excited the staff of the different ministries. Accordingly, the performance of the PCU is rated as
Satisfactory.
7.7 OvSerall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned with this project, can be summarized as follows:
Although modernization calls for an integrated approach so that all impediments to
efficient performance of the public sector can be dealt with simultaneously, a "Christmas-tree"
approach to modernization should not be pursued. In this case, the type of activities planned for
implementation and the number of institutions envisaged to be reached made the project complex.
Although this Project succeeded in achieving its Development Objectives, in countries with
- 16-



political instability projects with a limited focus and short duration would be more appropriate
than a project with a long-list of activities.
>     Political support at the highest level is crucial to enforce the utilization of financial
management systems by all public sector agencies. Political commitment is indispensable not only
to carry the implementation of a system but also to lead the enactment of necessary legal and
regulatory improvements.
;     The in-house development of a system   for financial management would allow
improvement of local expertise and increase the possibility of meeting national needs and
priorities. In-house development, however, should be complemented by a parallel development of
private sector service providers to ensure that the system is not dependent on a limited number of
designers and developers.
The provision to and accessibility of public sector financial information, by civil society and
the public at large will contribute to the attainment of transparency, improvement in governance
and control of corruption.
>     Decentralizing financial management and internal control to government agencies, and
linking planning to budget execution, can improve ownership and accountability.
>     Provision of information to civil society, dissemination of achievements to key
stakeholders and political actors, and application of popular consultation mechanisms can
contribute to a wider understanding of and support for the reform process.
>     Public sector restructuring and modernization presupposes the availability of sufficient
financial resources and specific laws to allow public entities to use their divestment gains to pay
for separation of staff. Without the appropriate resources political commitment alone cannot
carry through the modernization process.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
WAMult St IA.t%UBWA
flJis44ifllK   i- 0 0 1 3 8 6
IIw. 1 7    DCT.   |Mm
Miarrc Roam0
Oflki Saeia Ik Opcmcirs
Bairo Mundkl
A<f. flw4. aL7-EC&ewrr wM,du,mitriMn dvi rwado. MGM,
hJ  nkh iv tlnd& An-plusn0imwrt dot Phnicrc, .LL
flu wi cwui*zaoUt.6w
Es ukrtt par. c CONAh, OOmW 3oinUi,in rsspolmtdb]c de h ejecudhi Jtul Pruytk
MOTA, Jque       time oltlwtn como ra*kdo nl att wu jupwi6  [a callfiJfclI de
SI CMuIp!2ilinL de kia ahlijcios pinifts Y los y flgmH alcarun,lk cn Li c|jCCP6& ad
Pwiscki, lce miinim  que se  ba.-in to c d oimcnxo papnwlu pa   l PRssml.
dcanmesan el &srLtk &4 GoWomo enia in iukmenaci6a mi co1 a( itestab y
uII)Ur que les dIfremea   pitrrucs y auteddades ikducimruJs di:erm d tam  z la
Muidmizaci6n dol Esmd, rcsne7Aiotw o dc ala prixidad a pdL   cit I; crdis
eenrinuica y INS dificuludes JpbiLa4 enarmTuke,
A*ad.co ci Lu?VI dol bourador del lIubre Finml ldc ICR dcl Proyvcw NUSIA, la
opotuihddad quc dael IDantu a Am TDSitUC4W dc ccarvcr vim evluaci6n irnlpnidinm
,actru l1  ccaimal  pwI     dc realiaaW coutawrriUo el dpceuiwtr final.
CONAM            CONSEJO       NACIONAL     DE   MOO2RINIZACIOM         Dt-L 9S7ADO
-18 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no other cofinanciers for this project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Footnotes
1. The World Bank. 1994. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD
to the Executive Directors. Ecuador: Modernization of the State Technical Assistance
Project (MOSTA). Report No. P-6452-EC.
2. Ibid. P. 9.
3. Ibid.
4. The World Bank. 1993. Ecuador -- Public Expenditure Review: Changing the Role of the
State. Report No. 10541.
5. The World Bank. 2001. Ecuador: Country Assistance Evaluation. Operation and
Evaluation Department, January 25, 2001. Report No. 21825. See page 12-13.
6. Published in the Registro Oficial No. 349 on December 31,1993.
7. Registro Oficial No. 1, dated August 11, 1998.
8. Source: http://www.sri.gov.ec/html/historico.html.
9. Source: CONAM. 2001. Informe Final de Ejecucion del Proyecto. Marzo, 2001.
10. Letter from the Minister of MEF dated February 2, 2001. Officio No. DMEF-2001-0640.
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicators/ Matrix                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. PUBLIC BUDGET AND TREASURY SYSTEM
A. Medium-term Budgetary Framework              Output
* Methodologies for multi-annual budget systems prepared.
Likewise a macroeconomic model developed under the
* Modern medium-term budget system, induding           MOSTA and updated to June 1999, has been presented to
projection of medium term income and expenditures
and linking the budget process with medium-term     MEF.
public investments.                         Imoact
Impact                                                    * A multi-annual budget was not submitted to Congress,
* Improved financial planning through ability to       since the macro economic model must first be modified
estimate revenues and expenditures beyond the       before it can make projections for a dollarzed economy.
present one-year framework.
B. Budget Formulation                           Outout
* Presently, budget programming and formulation are canied
Output                                                       out by the respective govemment agencies, on the basis of
* Modern, integrated budget, including all agencies,   their annual operational and strategic plans and budget
with quantified program objectives and financial    ceilings imposed by MEF.
projections of revenues and expenditures in a cash  * 20 Central Govemment agencies and 62 ministry-level
budget.                                             provincial units employ SIGEF's budget programming and
formulation module (ie., these agendes account for 84.5%
*Budget formulated using computerized system.
of the Central Govemment's budget).
Impact                                                    * Training given in SIGEF technical norms, procedures and
The budget will be an instrument suitable to        systems applications.
simultaneously assist in managing macroeconomic impact
policy, govemment operations and financial        * The implementation of Global SIGEF within MEF enables it
resources                                           to consolidate information from Govemment agencies and
to generate a Pro-forma Budget for submission to
Congressional consideration and approval.
C. Budget Execution                             Outout
* A transitional Budget Execution system was employed
Outout                                                       between 1997 and 2000. This information is presently
* Modem, computerized budget execution system,         consolidated in the Global SIGEF, which manages
supportive of effective program management and
accountability and based on norms that allow efficient  approximately 65,000 line items.
Object of expenditure and cash control, as well as on  * MEF staff trained in the use of the SIGEF tool and in the
proper accounting rules and procedures.             application of prevailing technical and financial norms.
Imoact                                              Imoact
* System to provide the budgetary infrastructure    * A private banking network system of payments has been
required for improved management of financial       operating since May 1995. IT currently serves all
resources and the program management                non-finandal public institutions. The National Treasury is
accountability required to change the present       responsible for the system's oversight and monitoring
bureaucratic culture of Ecuadoran public
administration into one oriented to assuming
responsibility for goal accomplishment.
Program Control and Evaluation                            * After the required diagnostic was undertaken, a budget
Output                                                       control and evaluation system was developed and installed
* Modem computerized budget control and evaluation     in MEF's Public Enterprise Unit (Unidad de Empresas). As
per the system's design, only staff of this Unit employ this
system coverng the entire public sector.            system. Consequently the system covers 50 enterprises.
Imroact
D,  B   r    r    oThe system's scope is induded in the SIGEF.
D. Better macroeconomic, operational and
financial management as a result of
timely provision of information to the
respecive government officials
- 20 -



2. DEBT MGMTIPUBLIC CREDIT SYSTEM
Modemization of public debt management on the basis of:   * The proposed Public Debt System (SIGADE) approved by
MEF includes aspects related to the system's general
Output                                                       organization; the flow of information, and its direct and
* An organic and functional reorganization of the     indirect relation with other MEF systems as well as the
Under secretariat of Public Credit in MEF           systems of those institutions related with the public debt
* Adequate coordination between MEF and BCE.           management process.
* MEF will be responsible for SIGADE's implementation.
* UNCTAD specialists have been contracted to install
SIGADE and train technicians in MEF and BCE in the
operation of SIGADE version 5.2, which is now in
operation.
3. GOVT. ACCOUNTINGI TREASURY
Output                                              The 'Trole Law" reforms LOAFYC by establishing that MEF enjoys
* Modem computerized accounting system, including  the exclusive right to dictate technical norms on Govemmental
budgetary accounting and reporting subsystem,  accounting.
with decentralized operations and a modem    * Presently, the MEF is equipped with an Accounts Catalogue,
organization to operate it.                     Budget Classifier, and the principles and technical norms for
Impact                                                  govemment accounts.
* Basis for effective control of financial resources and  * ACM 182 was published in Supplement 249 of January 22,
auditing of transactions in a timely fashion.   2001. R.O.
* The computerized accounting system's new scheme was
applied throughout all non-finandal public sector institutions.
* SIGEF is equipped with an accounting module which registers
the daily transactions of public institutions.
4. AUDIT OF PUBLIC RESOURCES
Outout                                                    * The Audit and Control Framework Law prepared under the
* Reorganized CGE incorporating modem functions        MOSTA, was modified and approved by the CGE and
submitted to Congress in January 2000. The proposal has
and processes.
* Establishment of modem intemal audit units           reached second debate stage at Congress.
throughout the Public Sector.
Imoact
* Increased efficiency and effectiveness in audits, as
a service to management of entities and agencies.
5. PUBLIC CONTRACTING
Output                                              Outout
* Preparation and approval of a new Public          * On May 13, 1998, a favorable review of the Public
Contracting Law was given by Advisors of the
Contracting Law.                                    Congressional Civil and Penal Commission. However, this
* Updated norms and procedures that are compatible    important legal instrument has yet to be discussed in the
with the new Law.                                   Congressional Plenary.
Impact
* Since August 1996, a Works Control System for the
supervision and control of public works construction
contracts has been functioning.
* A LAN network was installed in the CGE to implement this
system.
* Equipment associated with the Works Control System, a
computerized audit system, SIGEF, and informations
systems strengthening have been installed.
6. PAYROLL S PERSONNEL SYSTEM
Outout                                              Outnut
Modernization of the personnel management and salary payment  * An integrated HHRR management system was designed
functions on the basis of:                                   which encompasses: (i) policies; (ii) Regulations to the Civil
* Introduction of efficient processes for personnel    Service and Public Administration Careers; (iii) HHRR
- 21 -



management;                                        Statistical Information System; (iv) a module for disabled
* Creation of technical procedures for the revision of  dvil servants; and (v) the development of an interface
between the statistical information system and SIGEF's
salaries.
payroll module.
* These tools will enable the Office of Civil Service and
Institutional Development(OSCIDI), to undertake its role as
lead agency in the management of the public sector's
human resources and to generate up-to-date statistical
information, particulariy on public expenditures in this area.
* HHRR policies, the generc occupational nomenclature of
the National Classification System for Civil Service Posts,
and the technical norms for initial placement of public
employees in career development streams are in force.
Imoact
* In November 1997, HHRR Management of decentralized
institutions was transferred to Autonomous Sectional
Governments.
* In November 1999, the Ministry of Public Health
deconcentrated its Personnel management functions to: (i)
the Sub secretariat of Tropical Medicine; (ii) the National
Institute of Hygiene, Leoopoldo lzquieta Perez and its
regional branches; (iii) the National Malara Eradication
Service; (iv) the provincial health offices; (v) hospitals; and
(vi) national health agencies.
* The Labor Force Reinsertion Program was designed in
accordance with the State Modemization process and will
the expressed commitment of the National Govemment.
This program looks to retraining/ reconversion of the labor
force as the ideal mechanism to mitigate social effects
associated with the modemization process (i.e.,
suppression or reduction in various public institutions and
agencies, and resulting reduction in personnel). Personnel
from the Ministries of Tourism, Social Welfare, Labor and
the Postal Service have benefited from this program.
* OSCIDI is equipped with an HHRR Statistical Information
System, that can be linked to SIGEF's payroll module via
an interface that was developed for this purpose, once the
decision is made to do so.
7. INFORMATIONS SYSTEMS (SIGEF)
Output                                             Output
* Development of a modem informatics plan and       * Development of Institutional SIGEF and Global SIGEF was
functional specifications for an integrated system of  completed. This system was developed and tested in MEF.
financial management (SIGEF).
* Development of Interim systems for the budget,    * The interface between SIGADE and SIGEF was developed
treasury accounting, audit, HHRR management,       and is currently operating within MEF.
and payment functions.                           * Interfaces between SIGEF and CAE, SRI and the Central
Imoact                                                      Bank have been designed.
* The first phase in the development of the Simplified SIGEF,
* Creation of an Interinstitutional Informatics       which encompasses the accounting, budgeting, treasury
Commission (IIC) to oversee the acquisition.        and management modules is complete. The System's
* Development of a modern informatics plan and        second phase which incorporates payroll and management
functional specifications for an integrated system of  modules has been completed and is ready for
financial management (SIGEF).                      implementation by MEF.
* Separation of the budget and treasury functions.  Impact
* Institutional SIGEF is currently operating in 20 key
institutions, and in 62 provincial units of different Ministries.
Thus 84% of the Central Government's budget is operating
under SIGEF. This percentage includes the Provincial
delegations and the Treasury's budget including public
debt.
* Global SIGEF has been installed within the MEF to: (i)
consolidate budgetary proformas generated by the local
- 22 -



SIGEFs within public institutions; (ii) approve PPCs; (iii)
manage general administration and budgetary reforms.
* Although the development of the Simplified SIGEF has
been complete, it has yet to be implemented throughout
public institutions as MEF has yet to select a pilot
institution.
Internet node.
* 85 institutions including 60 provincial delegations of
different Ministries, have been provided internet access
through dedicated lines and dial up connections. The
Internet provides an efficient venue to provide technical
support to SIGEF users, as well as the benefits of e-mail
and web browsing.
* 10 institutions have developed their own websites.
* The www.ec-gov.net was launched. This site provides a
gateway to the public sector with links to the web pages of
most public institutions. a Alojamiento de las pa ginas web.
This project introduced institutions to new technologies that
in turn expedite processing time, and reduce
communication lag time between key institutions,
particularly with respect to the Ministries' Provincial
delegations.
Hardwarelsoftware
* Approximately US$5.6 million in IT equipment (i.e,
hardware and software) have been invested in the
implementation of SIGEF and in overall institutional
strengthening.
A
1. STRENGTHENING PLANNING FRAMEWORK
Output                                              Output
A modem planning system oriented to a market      * In accordance with the Constitution, the Offce of Planning
economy in which state intervention is subsidiary   was established as a Technical Unit of the Presidency.
and supportive of private sector efforts, rather than  However, following the change in administration, this unit
falls under the auspices of the Vice presidency.
direct and distortive of market forces.           * The Draft Financal Management Law was prepared and
Impact                                                       submitted to the evaluation and approval of the new MEF
* Will provide the basis for strategic management of   authorties in January 2001.
government efforts at the global and sector levels to
attain economic and social development while  Impact
incorporating the interests and aspirations of all  * Specialists from Chile's MIDEPLAN collaborated in the
regions of the country.                             strengthening of the Planning Office, ODEPLAN.
* The INFOPLAN is completely functioning within ODEPLAN
and is accessible to the public via the nfoplan.gov.ec
website. INFOPLAN furnishes statistics, socio-economic
indicators and related information. Such information is
broken down by geographical and sectonal territory and by
economic activity. This information was also updated to
include maps and analytical graphs.
* The Project also supported: (i) the development of the
Geo-referenced Information System (SIG); and (ii) the
re-engineering of the Public Investment Programming and
Control System (SIPLAN) - a database that organizes the
Institutional Strategic Plans (PEI's) and Annual Operational
Plans (POA's) of all institutions and Ministries. This system
is currently being tested so that it may be employed by
public institutions in formulating the 2002 budget.
* Under the MOSTA Project, ODEPLAN also benefited from
technical assistance in developing of a methodological
guide for participatory planning linked to : (i) the
Government's Plan; (ii) sectorial policies; and (iii) the
methodology for SIGEF's budget formulation.
* Training of ODEPLAN's systems specialists was provided
in tandem with the system's development. As a result,
- 23 -



these specialists are capable of maintaining and updating
systems.
2. Restructuring & Mgrnt. Strengthening
(A) Decentralization Plan Output                             W vith GTZ technical assistance a national plan for
* The decentralization of goverment management         decentralization was launched & presented to the
through a program that involves both                Presidency.
deconcentration of centrally managed activities and
the devolution of functional responsibility and
authority to sectional levels of govemment, while
taking into account economic and administrative
efficiency criteria.
Imnact
* Will make government actions more responsive to
the diverse needs for the various social groups and
regions of the country.
Strengthen democracy through broader citizen participation
and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy thus making
government action more efficient.
Establishment of the Framework to Develop and             * The planned census activity was eliminated.
Disseminate a Civil Service CensusOutput                  * The payroll system is developed & implemented in all
* Census of all public employment and personnel        govemment institutions using SIGEF.
expenditures every 5 years
* Payroll and personnel system integrated into SIGEF
Imoact
Improve capacity of core Govemment agencies to forrnulate
personnel and expenditure policies.
Monitoring and Evaluation OutpUt                    Outuut
* Updated database on execution and impacts of      * The Office of Control of the Executive Function was
restructuring process.                              established on November 18,1998 via Executive Decree
* Evaluations of progress and impacts of               302. This agency is responsible for investigating and
correcting cases related to ethics in the public sector
restructuring process.                              workplace. This agency was eliminated on May 22, 2000
Impact                                                       via Executive Decree 352-A.
* Effective and gradually improving restructuring   * In May 2000, the project presented the General Secretariat
process.                                            of Public Administration a proposal to create an Office for
the Intemal Audit of the Executive Function (AIFE) which
would supervise and guide Ministries with the support of
the Central Govemment's Internal Audits and its dependant
units.
3. Coordination of Public Sector Training
OutDUt putut
* Procedures established to streamline and          * During the project's implementation, training on topics
strengthen the coordination of training offered by  related to Public Financial Management and Control as well
public sector institutions, especially with respect to  as State Modemization was provided to over 15,726 civil
the activities under the Govemment's Modemization   serevants.
of the State program.
1. Definition of the Role of the State
Outout                                              Output
A statement of macro institutional policy, reflecting a   * Two books were published on the Role of the State.
consensus of diverse points of view on the role and nature of  impact
the state that such be the target of the modernization effort.
- 24 -



* Work was undertaken directJy in the Ministries to redefine
their respective roles within the new State structure and to
Impact                                                      strengthen their managerial capadties within their sectors.
* Will help ensure that the macro institutional policy
that guides the modemization effort enjoys as wide
a support as possible and will allow continuity of
effort over the various administrations that will have
to pursue that goal.
2. Decentralization Policy
Outout                                             Output
* Govemment policy with respect to decentralizabon  * Deconcentration proposals were developed for all Ministries
to guide the actions of the decentralizaton plan to  of the Central Govemment. The degree to which they were
implemented varied according to each Ministry's degree of
be formulated by SENDA.                             commitment as well as according to the human resources,
moact                                                      technology, and assets of their respecive provincial
* Will provide the framework for a coordinated effort  delegations. To date the Ministries of Health, Labor,
to attain decentralization.                         Education, Urban Development, Environment (forestry),
Commerce, Industry and Fishing, Tourism, Public works,
and energy and mines, have all
Deconcentrated various functions.
2. Dissemination
OUtDU                                              Outpgt
O     *taue  Various events have been undertaken to disseminate
The establishment of policies and intensive dissemination  information on the Govemment's reform program including
programs to provide information regarding the progress of the  the Decentralization and Deconcentration Forum celebrated
Govemment's modemization program and its benefits
in Manta in May 1999, SIGEF, INFOPLAN.
* Currently, a consultancy is being carried out to disseminate
the Program's achievements. It will culminate with a formal
event on March 29, 2001.
3. Project Audit
output                                             OUtpUt
* Establish an adequate charter of accounts for    * Annual audits have been undertaken throughout the
project activibes.                                 project's life cycle, the last of which was the one for the
* Contract the services of an independent audit firm  year ending December 1999. All audits have resulted in an
to carry out annual project audits, for at least a three  d unqualified" opinion. The audit for 2000 and the first
quarter of 2001 is scheduled to be undertaken in April 2000
and the report has been presented in June 2001.
4. ProJect Management
Output                                             output
* Establish an effective monitoring system to control  * The PCU has undertaken all activities in accordance with
and evaluate progress on a regular basis.           Bank norms and prevailing national laws.
* Procurerient on schedule and in accordance with
World Bank guidelines.
mnact
* Efficient monitoring of project implementation.
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActualULatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
______   Project Cost By Component            US$ million  LJS$ million
Public Financial Management & Control             15.00          12.06          80.4
Public Sector Modemization                         3.80          3.02           79.5
Coordination of the Reform Program                 4.10          5.84          142.4
Total Baseline Cost                               22.90         20.92
Physical Contingencies                            1.40          0.00
Price Contingencies                               0.70          0.00
Total Project Costs            25.00         20.92
Total Financing Required            25.00         20.92
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category   Procurement Method                           _
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    4.00         4.00         0.80         0.00        8.80
(3.10)       (3.10)      (0.60)       (0.00)       (6.80)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         12.20        0.00        12.20
TA & service contracts     (0.00)        (0.00)      (11.60)      (0.00)     (11.60)
4. Miscellaneous            1.40         0.00         2.50                     3.90
Includes training, site    (0.40)        (0.00)      (1.20)        ()         (1.60)
management & incremental
operation costs
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     5.40         4.00        15.50        0.00        24.90
(3.50)       (3.10)      (13.40)       (0.00)     (20.00)
- 26 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       4.10           0.00          1.00          1.10         6.20
(3.20)        (0.00)        (0.70)        (0.70)        (4.60)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          12.80         0.00         12.80
TA & service contracts         (0.00)        (0.00)        (12.30)       (0.00)       (12.30)
4. Miscellaneous                0.30          0.00          1.60          0.00          1.90
Includes training, site       (0.20)         (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)        (1.20)
management & incremental
operation costs
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        4.40          0.00          15.40         1.10         20.90
(3.40)        (0.00)        (14.00)        (0.70)      (18.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2. Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)                 ____     _      _   _
P'ereentage ol AppraialI
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Goul.     CoF.      Bank      Go% t.   CoF.     Banh  Goit    CoF.
Public Financial        11.60      3.66               10.21     1.85              88.0   50.5
Management & Control
Public Sector            3.22     0.58                2.76      0.26              85.7   44.8
Modernization
Coordination of the Reform  5.18  0.76                5.14      0.70              99.2   92.1
Program
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/7-8, 1993                 1   Consultant
02/7-18, 1994                9   Operations officer, consultants,
Public finance, Technical
analyst,Procurement specialist,
Lawyer
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/18-29, 1994               9   Operations officer,
Consultants, Public finance,
Technical analyst,
Procurement specialist
Supervision
05/95                        6   Procurement specialist,            S             S
Financial managment
specialist, Disbursement
specialist, Public finance
specialist, Training specialist
09/95                        8   Public procurement, Macro          S             S
budget mgmt, Finacial mgmt,
Information technology , Public
finance, Audit, accounting, finc.
contr. and Training specialists
04/97                        5   MOF restructuring, Public          S             U
finance, Infromation system,
Financial management specialists
and Consultant
12/97                        5   Pubic finance, Reprogramming       S             S
review (2), Min. of finance
strengthening, Information tech.,
specialists
9/98                         2   Institutional Financial             S            S
Management specialists
05/99                        4   Institutional Financial             S             S
Management (2), Consultants (2)
10/99                        1   Institutional Financial            S             S
Management
04/00                        5   Institutional Financial             S             S
Management (2),
Procurement/Admin., Public
mgmt. system, Institutional
restructuring specialists.
12/00                        4   IFM, Procurement/Admin.,           S             S
Public mgmt. system,
Institutional restructuring
- 29 -



specialists.
ICR
10/01                        2    Operations officer,                S             S
Operations analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                 Actual/Latest Estimate               l
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               104.3                       253.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     34.0                        75.5
Supervision                              120.7                       389.1
ICR                                      24.0*                        47.6
Total                                    283.0                       765.6
Estimate.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                     O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
0 Physical                             O H   OSUOM     * N   O NA
El Financial                           O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Institutional Development            O H  0 SU O M   O N   0 NA
El Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
[I Poverty Reduction             OH   OSUOM      ON    * NA
O Gender                         O H  OSUOM      ON    * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development           O H   0 SU O M  O N   * NA
O Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
E Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank-performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
O Preparation                                       O HS * S     O u   O HU
El Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
I implementation agency performance                 O HS 0 S     O U   O HU
L Overall                                           OHS Os       O U   O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
MOSTA. 2001. Informe Final de Ejecucion del Proyecto. Marzo 2001.
MOSTA. 2001. Competencias: Que descentralizar?. Mayo 2001.
MOSTA. 2000. Estadisticas Fiscales del Ecuador: Nacionales, Provinciales y
Cantonales. No. 1 Diciembre 2000.
MOSTA. 1999. Memoria del Foro Experiencias Internacionales sobre Descentalizacion y
autonomias. Abril 1999.
MOSTA. 1998. Hacia la Reforma del Estado. Opiniones, consenso y controversia en la
sociedad ecuatoriana. Marzo 1998.
MOSTA. 1998. Rol del Estado. En la Politica Macroecon6mica y el Sistema Financiero.
Julio 1998.
MOSTA. 1996. El Rol del Estado en el Ecuador, Informe de los semiarios Quito, Cuenca
y Guayaquil. Abril 1996.
Loan Agreement dated February 10, 1995.
Several Aide Memoire and Project Status Reports.
The World Bank. 1994. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to the
Executive Directors. Ecuador: Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
(MOSTA). Report No. P-6452-EC.
The World Bank. 1993. Ecuador -- Public Expenditure Review: Changing the Role of the State.
Report No. 10541.
The World Bank. 2001. Ecuador: Country Assistance Evaluation. Operation and Evaluation
Department, January 25, 2001. Report No. 21825. See page 12-13.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
REPORTE FINAL DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA
PARA LA MODERNIZACION DEL ESTADO - MOSTA
(1995-2001)
INTRODUCCION
El Gobierno del Ecuador inici6 en 1995 el Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica para la Modemizaci6n del Estado, MOSTA, para la
reforma de la gesti6n administrativo-financiera publica, que cont6 con el apoyo financiero del Banco Mundial.
Los objetivos generales del Proyecto contemplaron: a) mejorar la estructura, procedimientos y sistemas para el control y gestdon
financiera del sector pWiThco; b) fijar los principios estrategicos y proveer soporte inicial para la reestructuraci6n del sector
piublico. creando las bases para una mayor eficacia administrativa y operacional; y, c) proveer de eficiencia, sostenimiento y
transparencra a los esfuerzos por la reforma del sector publico. La consecuci6n de los objetivos se plante6 mediante la
ejecuci6n de tres componentes principales: 1) Administraci6n y Control de las Finanzas Publicas, 2) Modemizaci6n del Sector
Publico, y 3) Coordinaci6n del Programa de Reforma.
Durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto sucedieron varios eventos que ocasionaron cambios de estrategia para el
cumplimiento de los objetivos mencionados en el parrafo anterior: Los eventos mas importantes fucron: cinco sucesiones
presidenciales, una reforma total de la Constituci6n de la Republica, una crisis econ6mica y financiera que condujo a una
reforrma integral del regimen monetario del Ecuador.
A pesar de las dificultades ocasionadas por el consecuente cambio de autoridades tanto en el CONAM como en el Ministerio de
Economia y Finanzas, el Proyecto de Modemizaci6n del Estado logr6 mantener la consecuci6n de los objetivos planteados en el
disefno original.
EJECUCIONDEL PROYECTO YSUS PRINCIPALES LOGROS
I. ADMINISTRACION Y CONTROL DE LAS FINANZAS PUBLICAS
El Proyecto de Modemizaci6n del Estado realiz6 importantes actividades para dotar a las instituciones encargadas de la
administracion y control de las finanzas publicas, de los soportes fiuncionales, organizacionales, tecno16gicos, legales v de
control que les permitieran realizar su gesti6n con eficiencia, oportunidad y transparencia. En este contexto, se disefin el
Sistema de Gestion Financiera para el sector publico, el que cuenta con una importante herramienta tecnologica como es el
SIGEF (Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera), compuesto por los m6dulos de: Presupuestos, Contabilidad, Tesoreria,
Gerencial, Nomina, Inventarios y Convenios; y, adicionalmente, el SIGEF brinda a los diferentes niveles organizacionales la
informaci6n requerida para la eficiente gesti6n del MEF, como son el Global y el del Tesoro Nacional.
1) Sistema de Presupuesto
Tradicionalmente, la elaboracion de la Proforma del Presupuesto General del Estado estaba, en su totalidad, a cargo del ex
Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico actual Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas; en la actualidad, esta responsabilidad es
compartida con las instituciones del gobierno, quienes, con base en sus planes estrategicos y operativos anuales. realizan la
programacion y formulacion de su presupuesto institucional, a traves del SIGEF Institucional con su modulo de programacion Y
forrnulacion presupuestaria, sujetos a la politica fiscal y a los techos presupuestarios, emitidos por el MEF. La consolidacion
presupuestaria del Gobiemo Central la realiza el MEF, que cuenta para ello con el SIGEF Global, que es alimentado por la
informaci6n que remiten las instituciones.
La ejecucion presupuestaria estA a cargo de cada instituci6n, que para la obtenci6n oportuna de los recursos clabora en cada
caso los Programas Anuales de Caja y los Programas Peri6dicos de Caja, estos ultimos ahora mensualmente son enviados al
MEF, a cfectos de aprobar y acreditar a las subcuentas institucionales en el Banco Central para su posterior distribuci6n,
utilizando el Sistema de Red Bancaria. Este sistema permiti6 significativamente la modemizaci6n del Banco Central,
coherente con su rol regulador, y al mismo tiempo dio acceso a servicios bancarios modernos y eficientes al sector publico.
2) Sistema de Credito Puiblico
La Propuesta del Sistema de Credito Publico, presentada por el Proyecto y aceptada por el MEF, incluye aspectos sobre la
- 34 -



organizaci6n general del sistema de credito pablico, el flujo de la informaci6n dentro de] mismo y sus relaciones directas e
indirectas tanto con el resto de sistemas como con las otras instituciones que actuan o tienen relaci6n con el proceso. La
implantaci6n del Sistema de Credito PuAblico esta a cargo del MEF.
SISTF,MA DE GESTIONDE LA DEUDA, SIGADE
Como apoyo a la Subsecretaria de Tesoreria y Credito Publico del MEF, se adquiri6 a la UNCTAD el Sistema de Gesti6n y
Administraci6n de Deuda Externa, SIGADE, y se proporcion6 la asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n para su implantaci6n y
operacion.
El Sistema de Gesti6n y Administraci6n de la Deuda es una herramienta para la administraci6n del credito publico y el servicio
de su deuda, que permite la conciliaci6n de cuentas entre el pais y sus acreedores. El Sistema se relaciona con el SIGEF
proveyendole informaci6n para la gesti6n de la deuda a traves de la interfaz desarrollada para el efecto.
3) Contabilidad Gubernamental y Tesoro
Para realizar el ordenamiento del Sistema de Contabilidad Gubernamental, se dot6 a] sector publico de nuevas herramientas:
Catalogo de Cuentas Contables, Clasificador Presupuestario, Principios y Normas T&enicas de Contabilidad Gubernamental.
La rectoria en la normativa contable gubernamental se estableci6 en el MEF. Este criterio se hace explicito en el proyecto de
Ley Organica de Gesti6n Financiera y en el Estatuto Organico del MEF, que contaron con la asistencia tecnica del MOSTA
para su elaboraci6n.
De igual forma, se moderniz6 el sistema de Tesoreria Nacional, con la simplificaci6n del ciclo de transferencias
presupuestarias a las instituciones publicas. La reforma, en resumen, consiste en que las Instituciones P(ublicas a traves de sus
Programas Peri6dicos de Caja solicitan a la Subsecretaria de Presupuestos del Tesoro del MEF, los recursos necesarios para el
cumplimiento de las actividades programadas para un mes; el Tesoro de la Naci6n, acorde con las disponibilidades de fondos,
realiza las transferencias globales a las instituciones pfiblicas, quienes son las responsables de controlar la ejecuci6n del
presupuesto y los pagos, hasta por el monto de los grupos de gasto del Programa Peri6dico de Caja aprobado. Para efectivizar
esta reforma fue necesario crear, en el Banco Central, una cuenta uinica de transferencia "Cuenta T", en reemplazo y
simplificaci6n de las cuentas de ingresos y egresos que se manejaban anteriormente.
El nuevo sistema se apoya en el SIGEF del Tesoro Nacional, que permite que el proceso se desarrolle en forma automatizada y
vinculada al SIGEF Global del MEF.
4) Auditoria de Recursos Piublicos
El Proyecto apoy6 la modernizaci6n de la Contraloria General del Estado como organismo clave de control; para esto se trabaj6
en el Proyecto de Ley Organica de Auditoria y Control, que fue receptado por la CGE, y a partir del cual realizaron
modificaciones y se envi6 su ultima versi6n al Congreso Nacional para su discusi6n y aprobaci6n en enero del 2001.
5) Contrataci6n Puiblica
El Proyecto de Ley de Contrataci6n Publica, elaborado con la participaci6n del Proyecto de Modernizaci6n del Estado, se
concluy6 en el afno 1997 y fue entregado en diciembre de ese mismo afio a la Presidencia de la Republica. El proyecto de Ley,
con la aprobaci6n de la Presidencia de la Replublica, fue remitido en abril de 1998 al H. Congreso Nacional para los respectivos
debates. Del seguimiento efectuado por el Proyecto, se conoce que los asesores de la Comisi6n de lo Civil y Penal emitieron el
inforne favorable para un primer debate el 13 de mayo de 1998, sin embargo, este importante instrumento legal no ha sido
discutido en el Plenario del Congreso Nacional.
6) Rol de Pagos y Sistema de Personal
El Proyecto apoy6 la modernizaci6n de la administraci6n de recursos humanos, con la elaboraci6n del diagn6stico institucional
de la ex - SENDA y la presentaci6n de la propuesta de reestructuraci6n del sistema de recursos humanos, que se concret6 con
la supresi6n de la SENDA, y en su reemplazo la creaci6n de la OSCIDI, en Ia Secretaria General de la Presidencia.
Urn primer paso para la descentralizaci6n en esta materia, fue el traslado de la administraci6n de los recursos humanos del
r6gimen descentralizado a los Gobiernos Seccionales Aut6nomos, a partir de noviembre de 1997, con la disposici6n de que
- 35 -



mensualmente informen a la OSCIDI sobre el movimiento de personal para efectos del control y estadisticas que debe mantener
la Oficina. Adicionalmente, en noviembre de 1999, el Ministerio de Salud Puiblica desconcentr6 la Administraci6n y
Gesti6n de Personal de esta cartera de Estado en algunas de sus dependencias a nivel nacional, y continua el proceso con
otras areas de salud del pais.
Por otro lado, se elabor6 el disefio funcional y el soporte legal del Sistema de Gesti6n de Recursos Humanos que comprende las
Politicas, el Reglamento a la Ley de Servicio Civil y Carrera Administrativa; y el soporte tecnol6gico: Sistema de Informaci6n
Estadistica de Recursos Humanos, M6dulo de Inhabilitados para ejercer funciones en el sector puiblico y el desarrollo de la
Interfaz entre el Sistema de Informaci6n Estadistica y el M6dulo de N6mina del SIGEF.
Estas herramientas permitiran a la OSCIDI ejercer su rol como el organismo rector del manejo de los recursos humanos del
sector publico y generar estadisticas actualizadas especialmente sobre el gasto publico en esta Area.
Adicionalmente, a traves del SIGEF, se puede obtener el monto de los recursos destinados al pago de sueldos y salarios en las
instituciones que estan operando el m6dulo de n6mina.
7) Sistemas de Informaci6n
SISTEMA INTEGRADO DE GESTIONFINANCIERA, SIGEF
El SIGEF es un instrumento de cambio y rnodernizaci6n de las finanzas puiblicas en el Ecuador, que reestructura, organiza,
automatiza y armoniza los procesos de gesti6n financiera del Gobierno, con el prop6sito de convertir la funci6n de los
administradores del Estado en una misi6n gerencial de servicio a las demandas de la sociedad, en condiciones de eficiencia,
eficacia, transparencia y disciplina fiscal.
El SIGEF siendo un instrumento de modemizaci6n del manejo de los recursos puiblicos, incluye conceptos de centralizaci6n
normativa y descentralizaci6n operativa. Bajo esta premisa, se consolida y agrega informaci6n de caracter nacional en el MEF a
traves del SIGEF Global, que permite ademAs disponer de informaci6n para las estadisticas de las finanzas puiblicas.
SIGEF GLOBAL
El SIGEF Global es una herramienta disefiada para la rectoria de las finanzas puiblicas, que considera las etapas de simulaci6n
de la politica fiscal, formulaci6n presupuestaria y consolidaci6n financiera del sector puiblico no financiero. Mantiene la
politica del nuevo rol del Estado, fortaleciendo los procesos y funciones de regulaci6n, normativa y control del sistema de las
finanzas publicas y posibilitando la generaci6n y disponibilidad de informaci6n de caracter nacional.
El SIGEF Global ha sido implantado en el MEF para realizar la consolidaci6n de las proformas presupuestarias generadas en el
SIGEF de las instituciones puiblicas, y realizarA la consolidaci6n de la ejecuci6n presupuestaria a efectos de generar los estados
financieros del Gobierno central.
SIGEF INS TITUCIONAL
El desarrollo e implantaci6n del SIGEF Institucional tuvo como objetivo principal apoyar la gesti6n financiera y adrninistrativa
de las entidades y organismos publicos, satisfacer las demandas de informaci6n oportuna para la toma de decisiones, y
contribuir al control del patrimonio publico.
El Sistema no contempla exclusivamente la automatizaci6n en la captura y el registro de los datos, sino que exige una
reingenieria en los procesos administrafivos y financieros institucionales y conlleva la reestructura y reorganizaci6n en aquellos
que sea necesario, convirtiendose en una herramienta de gesti6n. EstA compuesto por los m6dulos de: Presupuesto,
Contabilidad, Tesoreria, Gerencial, Inventarios y N6mina.
El SIGEF Institucional se encuentra en operaci6n en 20 instituciones Matrices y en 62 Direcciones Provinciales, lo cual
significa que el 84.7% del Presupuesto del Gobierno Central esta operando con SIGEF, en este porcentaje estan incluidas las
Direcciones Provinciales y el presupuesto del Tesoro Nacional que considera el monto de la deuda publica.
Las instituciones que operan el SIGEF reciben el soporte tecnico-financiero e informatico para la soluci6n de problemas y
asistencia requerida, a traves de la linea telef6nical-800-SIGEF.
Los usuarios tienen acceso remoto cuando los problemas son mAs complejos y con el prop6sito de optimizar el tiempo de
respuesta en la soluci6n de sus problemas, a traves de Remote Access Service (RAS).
El SIGEF en web site proporciona informaci6n sobre la estructura, funcionalidad, normativa, documentaci6n de usuarios y mas
informaci6n relacionada con el sistema; adicionalmente, suministra informaci6n sobre la gesti6n financiera publica, que
publicaran las instituciones y el MEF.
- 36-



Adicionalmente, el SIGEF Institucional contempla un m6dulo de "Convenios", que fue disefiado, desarrollado e implementado
para el registro de las operaciones de los proyectos financiados con credito extemo, cumpliendo los requerimientos de
infortnaci6n de los organismos intemacionales financiadores. Las operaciones generadas por los Proyectos se integran a la
gesti6n financiera de la Instituci6n.
SIGEF TESORO NACIONAL
Esta versi6n del SIGEF esta en operaci6n en la subsecretaria del Tesoro Nacional del MEF, actualmente genera los primeros
estados financieros de la entidad Tesoro Nacional.
Para que el SIGEF del Tesoro Nacional entre en operaci6n diaria en el MEF se modific6 el esquema de manejo de cuentas
institucionales en el Banco Central del Ecuador. Se elimin6 las cuentas "I" (ingresos de autogesti6n) y las cuentas "E" (cuentas
de ejecuci6n) y se cre6 una cuenta "T" (de transferencias) para cada instituci6n puiblica. Cabe resaltar que el mecanismo de
unificaci6n de las cuentas rige para todo el sector publico, no solamente para las instituciones con SIGEF, de esta manera se
fortalece el nuevo modelo de "gesti6n de las finanzas publicas".
El Tesoro Nacional, mediante la utilizaci6n de las herramientas del SIGEF y una vez que la unidad de presupuesto envia la
informaci6n de los Programas Peri6dicos de Caja de las instituciones puiblicas y del Tesoro Nacional a traves del SIGEF
Global, procede a transferir de manera global un monto para cada instituci6n por concepto de transferencias corrientes; y un
monto global para cada instituci6n por concepto de transferencias de capital e inversi6n. Este mecanismo es el que permite
traspasar "la gesti6n" a los Ministerios y disminuir la discrecionalidad en las transferencias de los recursos publicos a las
Instituciones del Estado.
SIGEF SIMPLIFICADO
El SIGEF Simplificado es una herramienta para la automatizaci6n de los procesos de gesti6n financiera en instituciones cuyo
volumen transaccional es pequefio. Su objetivo es reducir los costos de instalaci6n, disminuir los Tequerimientos tecnol6gicos
para la producci6n del sistema en una instituci6n publica y simplificar su proceso de implantaci6n en general, esto permitira
una estrategia de implantaci6n masiva adecuada e incrementar considerablemente la cobertura en cuanto a numero de
instituciones que utilicen SIGEF.
La versi6n final del SIGEF Simplificado, que considera los m6dulos de contabilidad, presupuesto, tesoreria, administraci6n,
n6mina y gerencial, se encuentra terminada y lista para su implantaci6n por parte del MEF. Esta herramienta sera impulsada
para su implantaci6n en los organismos de regimen seccional aut6nomo, como son los Municipios y Consejos provinciales,
ademas de otras instituciones del gobierno central con el caracter de adscritas o aut6nomas.
NODO DE INTERNET
El nodo de Internet es una infraestructura tecnol6gica, construida con la finalidad de facilitar el envio-recepci6n de datos de las
instituciones que cuentan con SIGEF al y desde el MEF; actualmente esta en operaci6n y permite el acceso a Internet a 85
instituciones mediante lineas dedicadas y conexiones dial up, entre ellas a 60 Direcciones Provinciales de diferentes
Ministerios. Mediante este servicio se les proporciona soporte tecnico a los usuarios del SIGEF, ademas de las facilidades de
correo electr6nico y navegaci6n en el web; alojamiento de las paginas web de 10 instituciones; publicaci6n del sitio
www.ec-gov.net, donde se encuentra el Portal de la Administraci6n Publica con vinculos a las paginas web de la mayoria de
instituciones p6blicas.
Con este proyecto se logr6 impulsar en las instituciones el uso de las nuevas tecnologias para agilitar los procesos y disminuir
los tiempos de espera en las comunicaciones con las matrices, sobre todo en las Direcciones Provinciales de los Ministerios.
Tambien es la puerta de acceso para materializar en el pais la rendici6n de cuentas, y que la ciudadania tenga acceso a la
informaci6n sobre la gesti6n publica.
II. MODERNIZACION DEL SECTOR PUBLICO
En apoyo a las reformas de gesti6n publica descritas en el primer componente y como base para una estrategia amplia de
modernizaci6n del sector pliblico, el Proyecto proporcion6 asistencia t6cnica para la reestructuraci6n y el fortalecimiento
institucional de los organismos clave de la planificaci6n, administraci6n econ6mica, financiera y desarrollo administrativo.
La intervenci6n del Proyecto en estos aspectos estuvo dirigida a realizar propuestas de reestructuraci6n organizacional de los
Ministerios, acordes con la definici6n del rol del Estado establecido en la nueva Constituci6n Politica del Ecuador y al nuevo
modelo de gesti6n de cada uno de ellos, sobre la base de los principios de descentralizaci6n y desconcentraci6n, planteados por
el proyecto e incorporados por los constituyentes en la Reforma de 1998.
1) Fortalecimiento del Marco de la Planificaci6n
- 37 -



Las propuestas del Proyecto en cuanto a] Sistema de Planificaci6n existente en el pais, fueron recogidas por la Nueva
Constituci6n Politica de la Republica que suprimi6 el CONADE y la SEGEPLAN.
El Proyecto gener6 una propuesta de reforna del sistema de administraci6n financiera y del sistema de planificaci6n, propuesta
que planteaba la necesidad de reestructurar el marco de competencias de la Secretaria General de Planificaci6n. Se crea la
ODEPLAN, como una unidad tecnica de la Presidencia de la Repub]ica, responsable de la planificaci6n.
Adicionalmente, se brind6 asistencia tecnica en los temas relacionados con el desarrollo de una guia metodol6gica de
planificaci6n participativa vinculada al Plan de Gobierno, a las politicas sectoriales, al plan estrategico y a la formulaci6n
presupuestaria con la metodologia SIGEF.
SISTEMA DE INFORMA CION PARA LA PLANIFICA CION - INFOPLAN
Ante la necesidad de contar con un sistema que facilite la toma de decisiones dentro del proceso de planificaci6n del Estado, el
Proyecto desarroll6 el INFOPLAN, que cuenta con estadisticas, indicadores socioecon6micos e informaciones georeferenciadas
y sectorizadas territorialmente y por actividad econ6mica; adicionalmente, se apoy6 la actualizaci6n de dicha informaci6n
incorporando mapas y graficos de anlisis. Este instrumento esta en total operaci6n, en la ODEPLAN, y se encuentra a
disposici6n del puiblico.
La ODEPLAN esta en capacidad de mantener el sistema en operaci6n, asi como de realizar las actualizaciones peri6dicas de
informaci6n, obtenci6n de nuevos indicadores, asi como desarrollar versiones posteriores del INFOPLAN, gracias a la
transferencia tecnol6gica realizada por el Proyecto. Permite, a traves de su pagina web, realizar consultas para el publico en
general.
Otros Sistemas
El Proyecto proporcion6 la asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo e implementaci6n del Sistema de Informaci6n Geografica, SIG,
que incluy6 la actualizaci6n de la cartografia existente en la ODEPLAN sobre divisi6n provincial, cantonal y parroquial,
centros poblados, red hidrografica, red vial, curvas de nivel, regiones y limites territoriales del pais; asi mismo, se valid6 la
informaci6n que alude a las areas protegidas, cobertura vegetal, uso potencial del suelo, peligros volcanicos, entre otros.
Adicionalmente se elaboraron los mapas tematicos sobre las concesiones mineras en exploraci6n y explotaci6n, conflictos de
uso de la tierra, catastro petrolero y territorios indigenas de la regi6n amaz6nica.
Con el prop6sito de dejar operativo el Sistema de Programaci6n y Seguimiento de la Inversi6n Publica, SPSIP, se realiz6 una
reingenieria del Sistema, de tal manera que al momento esta en operaci6n y disponible en inter e intranet. Las actividades de
ajuste realizadas al SPSIP fueron desarrolladas en coordinaci6n con los tecnicos de la ODEPLAN, a fin de garantizar un
proceso de transferencia tecnol6gica y capacitaci6n para su mantenimiento y operaci6n.
El Proyecto apoy6 el desarrollo del SIPLAN, que es un banco de datos que organiza los Planes Estrategicos Institucionales
(PEI's) y Planes Operativos Anuales (POA's) de todas las entidades y ministerios. El Sistema se encuentra desarrollado y
actualmente esta en fase de prueba para que pueda ser utilizado por las instituciones puiblicas para la elaboraci6n del
Presupuesto del 2002.
2) Reestructura y Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n Pfiblica
Plan de Descentralizaci6n
Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, se conceptualiz6 la organizaci6n de los niveles de gobierno, el regimen seccional aut6nomo
y dependiente y su rol, lo que permiti6 la sistematizaci6n de competencias, actividades y recursos que pueden ser transferidos o
delegados por el Gobiemo Central; como ejemplos concretos de implantaci6n se puede mencionar: a) La descentralizaci6n del
manejo catastral; b) La descentralizaci6n de competencias a los gobiernos seccionales aut6nomos del Ministerio de Turismo y
delegaci6n del Ministerio de Obras Publicas a sus regionales; c) Se desconcentraron las funciones de gesti6n del recurso
humano hacia las unidades de servicios (hospitales y centros de salud), areas y direcciones provinciales. De esta forma, cada
nivel estA facultado para seleccionar, contratar, evaluar y despedir al personal medico y administrativo.
Las iniciativas del Proyecto en las Areas de desconcentraci6n y descentralizaci6n originaron su debate nacional y en la
actualidad existe una Unidad de Descentralizaci6n, Desconcentraci6n y Autonomias que apoya este proceso en el Ecuador.
Implementacion de la Reestructura
- 38 -



Reestructura del Ministerio de Economia v Finanzas
La reestructura del ex - Ministerio de Finanzas contempl6 la independencia y la reorganizaci6n de las areas de ingresos
fiscales, tanto aduanas como rentas internas; es asi que el Proyecto propici6 la creaci6n del Servicio de Rentas Internas y la
Corporaci6n Aduanera Ecuatoriana, como organismos aut6nomos, cuyas leyes entraron en vigencia el 2 de diciembre de 1997.
Para que las nuevas instituciones cuenten con los instrumentos legales necesarios para su gesti6n, el Proyecto particip6 en la
elaboraci6n de: Ley del SRI y su reglamento, Reglamento organico funcional y Estatuto de personal del SRI, Ley Organica de
Aduanas, Organico Funcional de la CAE aprobado por su directorio y Reglamento de la Ley Organica de Aduanas.
La nueva estructura del MEF fue disehada para que pueda asumir el papel protag6nico en la definici6n de la politica fiscal y
macroecon6mica del pais, asi como para asumir su rol de ente rector de las finanzas publicas.
Otras reestructuras
El Proyecto, con el prop6sito de cumplir los objetivos planteados en cuanto al proceso de modernizaci6n y reforma estructural
del Estado ecuatoriano y realizar un ordenamiento de las instituciones del Gobierno Central, sugiri6 al Presidente de la
Republica la supresi6n de instituciones que duplicaban funciones o cuyas atribuciones podian ser ejercidas por otras, o que
dejaron de cumplir con los objetivos para los que fueron creadas; asi, 15 instituciones entraron en el proceso de reestructura y/o
supresi6n
Todos estos procesos de supresi6n y reforma de instituciones, y reestructuraci6n de varios Ministerios, significaron una
reducci6n de personal de aproximadamente 10.000 funcionaTios puiblicos.
3) Coordinacion de Capacitaci6n del Sector Publico
Un aspecto importante de la Modemizaci6n es la inversi6n en el capital humano del Estado, con el prop6sito de internalizar en
sus agentes las reformas que se han logrado durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto; en los casi seis afios de vida del Proyecto, se
realiz6 una importante inversi6n y apoyo en capacitaci6n, especialmente en la operaci6n del Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n
Financiera, SIGEF, y en la aplicaci6n de la norrnativa tecnica vigente, llegando a mas de 12.500 funcionarios publicos.
III. COORDINACION DEL PROGRAMA DE REFORMA
1) Definicion del Rol del Estado
El Proyecto intervino activamente en la inclusi6n de las reformas relacionadas con el rol del Estado a nivel del Gobierno
Central, discutidas en la Asamblea Constituyente que modific6 la Constituci6n Politica del Ecuador. A partir de esta
coyuntura, el Proyecto hizo un importante aporte en el desarrollo de la propuesta sobre el rol que debe asumir el Estado a nivel
central y sectorial, y su fortalecimiento para el ejercicio de las siguientes funciones: dictar politicas y normas; planificar en el
nivel nacional; mantener el poder concedente; monitoreo y evaluaci6n, y ejercicio de las actividades de regulaci6n y control; en
este sentido se trabaj6 directamente con los Ministerios, a fin de adecuarlos a su nuevo rol dentro de la estructura del Estado y
fortalecer su capacidad de gesti6n sectorial.
En este contexto se logr6: a) internalizar en las instituciones el nuevo rol del Estado en los distintos sectores que son de su
responsabilidad, gerenciados por los Ministros del Gobierno Central y asumiendo un rol de rectoria y regulaci6n, dejando para
el sector privado la ejecuci6n de obras y prestaci6n de servicios basicos; b) el disefho de nuevos modelos de gesti6n enmarcados
en los mandatos constitucionales de desconcentraci6n, descentralizaci6n y participaci6n privada y fundamentados en los
principios de eficiencia, eficacia y equidad; c) reestructuraciones organizacionales fundamentadas en procesos y enmarcadas en
los criterios de modemizaci6n referidos anteriormente; d) proceso de descentralizaci6n y desconcentraci6n adaptados a las
condiciones institucionales y juridicas del Estado ecuatoriano e inclusi6n de las estrategias de descentralizaci6n y
desconcentraci6n, como componentes fundamentales
de la reforma del Estado; e) la reducci6n del personal del Estado alcanz6 en el Ministerio de Trabajo a 177 funcionarios, en el
Ministerio de Industrias, Comercializaci6n y Pesca a 176, en el Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda a 170, en el
Ministerio de Turismo a Ill ,en Energia y Minas a 343, en la Empresa Nacional de Correos a 735.
2) Politica de Descentralizaci6n
- 39 -



La Asamblea Constituyente que elabor6 la nueva Constituci6n Politica de la Republica del Ecuador, incluy6 las propuestas que
realiz6 el Proyecto de Modernizaci6n del Estado; a partir de entonces el tema descentralizaci6n ocupa un lugar importante en la
opini6n pubblica, generando nuevas alternativas para la reorganizaci6n de la macroestructura del Estado (Administraci6n
Central, Provincial, Municipal y Parroquial).
Principales Logros
1.      Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n Puiblica
El MEF realiz6 una real transferencia de gesti6n a los ministerios al hacerlos responsables de la preparaci6n de sus
presupuestos institucionales, basados en una estrecha relaci6n con la planificaci6n acorde con las politicas del gobierno, y
planteando resultados a alcanzar con la ejecuci6n presupuestaria, es decir la preparaci6n de presupuestos por resultados.
La filosofia del sistema de gesti6n financiera publica se basa en una concentraci6n normativa, reguladora y de control, y en una
desconcentraci6n operativa.
A traves de las transferencias globales, los ministerios son quienes deciden c6mo realizar sus pagos y administrar sus recursos
acordes con sus presupuestos aprobados, lo que permite una optimizaci6n de los recursos y un mejoramiento en la calidad del
gasto puiblico.
El SIGEF permite el acceso a la informaci6n real y oportuna que facilite la toma de decisiones de las autoridades, tanto a nivel
institucional como sectorial y global.
El Proyecto desarroll6 e implant6 los sistemas de informaci6n que constituyen el soporte tecnol6gico esencial para la
modernizaci6n de la gesti6n puiblica.
La calidad del trabajo del funcionario publico se increment6 considerablemente, de modo que luego de un proceso de
capacitaci6n y al operar el SIGEF, estan en capacidad de realizar analisis sobre los resultados de la gesti6n, lo que a su vez
incide en una mayor autoestima y reconocimiento de su nivel profesional.
2.      Desconcentraci6n administrativo-financiera
A  partir de la implantaci6n del SIGEF en las matrices de los ministerios, estos desconcentraron sus areas
administrativo-financieras a sus dependencias provinciales, las que tambien seran usuarias del SIGEF.
El area de personal tambien sigui6 un proceso de desconcentraci6n, las unidades o dependencias provinciales son las que
deciden ahora con base en una politica y normativa centralizada, tomar sus propias decisiones y realizar los procesos de
selecci6n y contrataci6n, y las decisiones propias de la gesti6n de recursos humanos.
El MEF dispone ahora, con el SIGEF, de una herramienta tecnol6gica que le provee informaci6n de utilidad para la toma de
decisiones y facilitar el proceso de desconcentraci6n en el pais.
3.      Presupuesto por resultados
La metodologia para la formulaci6n presupuestaria implica una planificaci6n por resultados, lo que permitira realizar
evaluaciones de la gesti6n y efectuar correcciones para futuras ejecuciones presupuestarias; la elaboraci6n de la proforma
presupuestaria no es un simple incremento porcentual al aino anterior, responde ahora a una politica y se basa en la
planificaci6n.
Se incorporan en la formulaci6n presupuestaria los ingresos y egresos, es decir presupuestos balanceados que permitan conocer
el origen de los fondos y la utilizaci6n de los mismos en programas concretos acordes con las politicas y techos de recursos
asignados. Esto implica que todo egreso tiene un financiamiento, de manera que garantiza la ejecuci6n de los proyectos y
facilitara una rendici6n de cuentas, apoyando asi a una mejor calidad del gasto puiblico.
4.      Transacciones gubemamentales en tiempo real
A traves de la automatizaci6n en el Tesoro Nacional y de la operatividad de su propio SIGEF, esta unidad del MEF tiene una
conexi6n directa con el Banco Central. Una vez racionalizado el sistema de cuentas corrientes institucionales, se aplica el
- 40 -



proceso de Programas Peri6dicos de Caja, proceso que elimina la determinacion; se realizan transferencias globales, disminuye
la discrecionalidad y se dispone de informaci6n.
El Proyecto disen6 e implant6 el Sistema de Red Bancaria, lo que permitio oportunidad y agilidad en el proceso de pagos en el
sector publico y se elimin6 la concentraci6n de cuentas corrientes institucionales en el Banco Central.
5.      Transparencia en las operaciones presupuestarias
Las transferencias de recursos por partidas globales permite disminuir significativamente la discrecionalidad en la asignaci6n
de los recursos pub licos y promover la transparencia en las operaciones presupuestarias.
La integraci6n de las operaciones de presupuesto, contabilidad y tesoreria coadyuva a la eliminaci6n de procesos duplicados y
al registro inmediato de cualquier transacci6n, lo que sin duda garantiza una transparencia en la ejecuci6n presupuestaria y en
el manejo de los recursos pulblicos.
La implantaci6n del sistema implic6 una reingenieria basica de los procesos administrativos y financieros, que facilitan y
mejoran la gesti6n institucional.
El SIGEF tiene contemplado en su estructura pistas de auditoria y controles, que facilitan las labores del auditor intemo y
externo, lo que a su vez disminuye el riesgo de corrupci6n; asi p.ejem.: no permite realizar un gasto que no esta previamente
presupuestado y que cuenta con el financiamiento (ingreso) respectivo, no se puede pagar algo que no esta presupuestado,
devengado y contabilizado.
6.      El nuevo Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
La nueva estructura del Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, lo fortalece en sus areas de Economia y Finanzas para asumir un
papel preponderante en politica fiscal y macroecon6mica, ademas de ser el ente rector de las finanzas puiblicas.
El MEF estara, a traves del SIGEF Global, en la capacidad de consolidar informaci6n institucional y conocer la deuda real del
pais.
7.      Rol de Pagos v Sistema de Personal
A traves del SIGEF del Tesoro Nacional, se conoce el monto de recursos transferidos para gastos de personal en todo el sector
publico.
Toda la informaci6n sobre recursos humanos en cada una de las instituciones que tienen el SIGEF, ha sido depurada a traves
del m6dulo de N6mina, el mismo que es integrado con los m6dulos de Contabilidad, Presupuesto y Tesoreria; esto permiti6
transparentar los pagos al personal, asi como detectar irregularidades y su inmediata eliminaci6n, como pagos duplicados,
pagos a personal residente fuera del pais, a deportistas, a personas registradas con mas de 300 anios de edad, etc.
El Sistema de Rol de Pagos crea las bases para una simplificacion del sistema remunerativo y la homogenizacion en las formas
de calculo, y en un futuro sera la base para una politica de unificaci6n salarial.
8.      Sistema de Pazos por Red Bancaria
Este sistema permiti6 una estandarizaci6n del sistema de recaudaciones y pago de obligaciones para todas las instituciones del
sector publico, bajo criterios de simplificaci6n y generalizaci6n.
Facilit6 y simplific6 a los contribuyentes en el tramite y cancelaci6n de sus obligaciones con el Estado y los pagos por
adquisiciones de bienes y servicios a traves de la banca privada.
Se habilitaron pagos por medio del acreditamiento directo en cuenta del beneficiario, lo cual redujo significativamente los
costos por emisi6n de cheques; solamente en el Gobiemo central, para alrededor de 265.000 servidores publicos, el pago de sus
remuneraciones requeriria por lo menos la emisi6n de mAs de 3 millones de cheques al aiio, mientras que actualmente se
realiza por acreditamiento a sus cuentas en la banca privada.
Transparent6 el proceso de pagos en las instituciones al requerir siempre un detalle de pagos de los beneficiarios como
requisito para ordenar la transferencia de fondos del Banco Central a los bancos privados. Los ingresos de autogesti6n
- 41 -



gencrados por las instituciones se registraron adecuadamente y su manejo se transparent6, en tanto que anteriormente eran
manejados fuera del presupuesto y de manera discrecional.
Se depuraron las cuentas corrientes y auxiliares de la Cuenta Corriente Onica que mantenian las instituciones en el Banco
Central, muchas sin movimiento y con saldos infimos; este proceso elimin6 varios miles de cuentas, facilitando asi el manejo y
provision de la informaci6n sobre los saldos existentes, informaci6n de mucha utilidad para la Tesorcria de la Naci6n.
9.      Rendici6n de Cuentas a la sociedad civil
A traves de una infraestructura tecnol6gica como es el Node internet y el sitio Web del SIGEF, se publicaTa informnaci6n real
sobre la gestion publica, a la que pueden acceder desde 6rganos de control hasta la ciudadania en general para conocer el
manejo de los recursos publicos. Esto da inicio a la "rendici6n de cuentas" sobre la gesti6n puiblica, a conocer que recursos se
utilizaron y en que, con que resultados en beneficio de la sociedad.
Asi [a sociedad civil puede tener acceso a la informaci6n financiera y de gesti6n de las instituciones del Estado.
Lecciones aprendidas
Diseno del Provecto
El Proyecto MOSTA contempl6 objetivos generales que si bien daban un marco y orientaci6n sobre el macroproceso de la
gesti6n publica, para alcanzarlos en una temporalidad razonable, consideraban tambien las relaciones institucionales e
intervenci6n en diferentes areas de gobierno, lo que no fue una tarea facil dada la inestabilidad politica y los diferentes
cambios de gobiernos que se presentaron en el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto. Es importante en el disefno de los
proyectos, tomar en cuenta una estrategia de intervenci6n que facilite la implementaci6n de la ejecuci6n de los proyectos y
el logro de sus objetivos, con una flexibilidad para enfrentar los conflictos institucionales y que los arreglos institucionales
con las entidades nucleos en los procesos de reforma vayan mas alla de acuerdos circunstanciales o personales, sin perder
el enfoque integral de la reforma.
El disefio de los proyectos deberia incorporar una metodologia de facil aplicaci6n que permita realizar un monitoreo en la
relaci6n costo/beneficio de las actividades que se plantean para cumplir los componentes y, por ende, lograr los objetivos.
Reformas en el Sector Publico Ecuatoriano
La Reforma en el Sector Publico ecuatoriano, sin duda requiere una sustancial mejora en la gesti6n financiera del sector
publico, la misma que puede hacer una sustancial contribuci6n especialmente en paises con un ineficiente e inmanejable
aparato estatal.
La reforma en los sistemas de gesti6n financiera puede proporcionar un alto retorno en terminos de mejoramiento en la entrega
de servicios, costos efectivos, manejo presupuestario y transparencia. Como beneficios materializados, estos sistemas pueden
disponer de una s6lida base con la que proseguir una secuencia mAs grande para alcanzar una reforma estructural en el sector
puiblico.
Un mAs eficiente, integrado y transparente sistema de gesti6n financiera puede sustancialmente mejorar la gesti6n financiera
publica y reducir el alcance de la corrupci6n en las finanzas del sector publico.
La reforma en cl sector publico ecuatoriano, conociendo de antemano que existe el grave problema de exceso de personal, debe
considerar la oportuna aplicaci6n de recursos para reducci6n de personal. Dificulta enormemente el implementar los modelos
de gesti6n con un personal no calificado o con personal separado de funciones pero no indemnizado o fuera de la instituci6n,
asi como tambien el que el personal calificado que se mantiene en la instituci6n sea adecuadamente remunerado.
El esfuerzo de la reforma debe tener una visi6n compartida, su implementaci6n, asi como la de sus soportes. como es el caso
de los sistemas integrados de gesti6n, deben ser impulsados por la mAxima autoridad del pais, y monitoreado su cumplimiento
por los ministros de Estado, lo cual ayudaria a disminuir la resistencia al cambio propia de las instituciones publicas.
La entrega de resultados tangibles logrados a traves de los proyectos, tan pronto como sea posible, demostrandolos y
diseminandolos a traves de las autoridades, facilitaria el proceso de sostenibilidad.
Desarrollo In House
- 42 -



El desarrollo In lHouse, que fuera tecnicamente justificado ante el Banco, consider6 unas metas y planificaci6n que requirieron
de varios ajustes; sin embargo, podemos decir que como pais estamos satisfechos de los logros alcanzados con el SIGEF, y del
esfuerzo y calidad tecnica de nuestros profesionales.
En relaci6n con la implantaci6n del sistema, la falta de experiencia sobre todo en esta area, y la visi6n optimista sobre la
respuesta de las instituciones al cambio significativo que implicaba la implantacion del SIGEF, hicieron que los tiempos
estimados no se cumplieran, y que no fuera posible su implantaci6n en el nuimero de instituciones inicialmente programadas.
Hubiese sido positivo que el Banco apoyara con un intercambio de experiencias en otros paises que cumplian similares
procesos de cambio.
En el Plan de accion del Crddito de Ajuste Estructural - SAL, se considero esencial el cumplimiento de metas relacionadas
con el SIGEF, las mismas que fueron cumplidas a satisfacci6n de la misi6n del Banco, y fue uno de los cumplimientos que
habilitaron el primer desembolso del SAL.
Al finalizar el Proyecto MOSTA, el MEF ha decidido continuar con el Proyecto de Fortalecimiento y Sostenibilidad del
Sistema de las Finanzas Publicas, el mismo que sera ejecutado por una unidad adscrita a este ministeno. El nuevo proyecto que
actualmente esta en preparaci6n, tiene entre sus objetivos propuestos los siguientes:
*       Sostener la operatividad actual del SIGEF y ampliar su cobertura en instituciones seleccionadas para los niveles
desconcentrados. descentralizados, autonomos y entidades que manejan proyectos con financiamiento externo.
*       Consolidacion del Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera - SIGEF.
*       Consolidar al MEF como ente rector de las finanzas puiblicas.
*       Mejorar la planeacion y evaluaci6n de los ingresos y gastos.
*       Mejorar la administraci6n de los bienes piublicos.
*       Consolidar la integraci6n del SIGEF con Recursos Humanos.
Desempeno del Banco Mundial
El Proyecto considera el desempefio del Banco Mundial como satisfactorio. El Banco mostr6 flexibilidad en los cambios de
estrategia del Proyecto, necesarios para adaptarlos a las politicas del Gobierno; sin embargo, el Banco no pudo mantener una
continuidad en el equipo de las misiones.
No existio desde el inicio del Proyecto una definicion clara de la relacion entre las partes; se observb con los cambios de los
task managers que esta relaci6n era fijada por ellos y en ocasiones fue una intervencion directa en la administraci6n del
proyeeto.
Desempefio de la Entidad Prestataria
A pesar de las caracteristicas del periodo en el que se desarrollo el Proyecto, que fucron momentos de inestabilidad politica y
sucesivos cambios de gobiemo, asi como una fuerte crisis econ6mica, el Gobierno del Ecuador cumplio con los compromisos de
la contraparte nacional, hasta el cierre del proyecto.
Las reprogramaciones del Proyecto fueron hechas para contemplar las politicas y prioridades de cada gobierno y para que
permitieran alcanzar los objetivos en el tiempo previsto. Aun asi se vio la necesidad de solicitar al Banco una extensi6n del
Proyecto, la misma que fuera aprobada por 9 meses adicionales a los programados.
- 43 -



- 44 -



