Docme3nt of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6452-EC
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1994



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sucre (S./)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of October 15, 1994)
US$1.00 = S./2,263
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION  A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ............................   1
Background  .............................................  1
Lessons Learned  .......................................... 16
Institutional Framework ...................................... 17
Project Description.  ........................................ 20
Component I: Public Financial Management and Control  .............. 20
Subcomponent 1: Public Budget and Treasury System    ............. 20
Medium-term  budgetary process   ........................ 20
Budget Formulation and Cash Programming  ................. 21
Budget Execution .................................. 22
Program  Control and Evaluation   ........................ 22
Subcomponent 2: Debt Management/Public Credit System  ...                    ........ 23
Subcomponent 3: Government Accounting ..................... 23
Subcomponent 4: Audit of Public Resources  ................... 23
Subcomponent 5: Public Sector Contracting .................... 24
Subcomponent 6: Payroll and Personnel Subsystem   ............... 24
Subcomponent 7: Integration of Information Systems  .............. 25
Component II: Public Sector Modernization  ...................... 26
Subcomponent 1: Strengthening of the Planning Framework  ...                  ....... 27
Subcomponent 2: Restructuring and Management Strengthening   ...                  .... 28
A national decentralization plan  ......................... 28
A quadrennial comprehensive public employment census ...                  ....... 28
Restructuring of public entities  ......................... 28
Subcomponent 3: Coordination of Public Sector Training   ....                 ....... 29
Component III: Coordination of the Reform  Program    ................ 31
Subcomponent 1: Definition of the Role of the State   .............. 31
Subcomponent 2: Decentralization Policy  ..................... 31
Subcomponent 3: Dissemination ........................... 32
Subcomponent 4: Project Accounts and Audit  .................. 32
Subcomponent 5: Project Management ....................... 32
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .....  . 33
Project Organization and Implementation ........................... . 33
Procurement ............................................ . 38
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits.               ......................... . 38
Supervision Plan .......................................... . 38



ATTACHMENTS
1. Public Entity Restructuring Strategy
2. Project Implementation Plan
3. Detailed Cost Tables



ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1. The centralized and control-oriented public management framework that exists in
Ecuador today provides neither the managerial capacity nor the managerial incentives
required for effective and efficient management. That this is the case in Ecuador today is
apparent from the widespread lack of confidence in and disillusionment with the public
sector's capacity to deliver basic public services. This centralized and control-oriented public
management framework makes it extremely difficult to effectively and efficiently manage
those public resources to achieve the fundamental aims of the Government because effective
management requires both the capacity to tailor managerial decisions to the constantly
changing conditions faced by any given executing unit (i.e., competent managers endowed
with adequate autonomy to materially affect the performance of their units) and an
appropriately designed incentive framework that ensures that managers will use such
discretion and autonomy to serve the ends of the Government, rather than the narrower aims
of either their particular organizational unit or themselves personally.
2. This pattern is not unique to Ecuador. It can be found throughout most of Latin
America. Furthermore, the creation of such a centralized and control-oriented public
management framework represents a not entirely irrational response to a very real problem;
namely, the risk of misuse or abuse of authority by public servants who are not always
models of moral uprightness or technical or managerial competence. Unfortunately, such a
response to this risk of the misuse of public resources brings with it a number of debilitating
drawbacks. Perhaps the two most important of these drawbacks are: (i) such a framework
makes it extremely difficult to effectively and efficiently manage within the public sector;
while (ii) this very difficulty induces public agencies, their managers and even politicians to
seek out all manner of ad hoc devices for circumventing the bottlenecks to effective
management created by this centralized and control-oriented management framework, thereby
both reducing the transparency of the overall system while simultaneously undermining its
capacity to prevent the mismanagement and abuse of authority it was designed to preclude in
the first place.
3. That this centralized and control-oriented public management framework has led to the
proliferation of all manner of devices for circumventing and subverting those centrally
imposed controls is reflected in numerous symptoms of a public sector gone awry, including:
a consistent pattern of public employment growth; a proliferation of organizational units
created outside the normal budgetary and personnel control apparatus; a proliferation of off-
budget items and earmarked revenues; a proliferation of labor regimes within the public



2                          Technical Annex
sector and a weakened public sector human resource management capacity; a proliferation of
salary supplements; inability of the Government to recruit and retain middle level
management, professional and technical personnel.
4. Public employment growth. Public employment in Ecuador has grown inexorably over
the last decade and one-half, regardless of whether it is measured in absolute terms or
relative to population (see Table 1 and Figure 1). The only significant reversal of this trend
occurred in 1993, when the Government took initial steps toward its Modernization of the
State program (see below). Total public employment exclusive of uniformed military
personnel climbed from 193,000 in 1979 to almost 370,000 in 1992, and finally dipped to
just under 342,000 in 1993. As a share of population, public employment rose from roughly
2.5% at the beginning of the 1980s to 3.35% by 1992, and finally dipped to 3.02% in 1993.
Were the Government to set itself the goal of reducing public employment to its early-1980s
levels relative to population, it would need to eliminate another roughly 50,000 positions by
the end of 1995, assuming population growth continues at its recent rate of roughly 2.4% per
annum.
5. This inexorable growth in public employment could hardly be attributed to a smoothly
functioning centralized control-oriented framework aimed at keeping public employment in
check. It represents, instead, evidence that despite the numerous aspects of that framework
aimed at controlling things such as public employment growth, the final result is just the
reverse. The turnaround in 1993 raises the question whether the Government has finally
figured out how to stem the tide of employment growth or whether this downtick is simply
an aberration.
6. Proliferation of public agencies partially or wholly exempt from core financial and
personnel management controls. As of 1992 the Offices of the Presidency and the Vice
Presidency plus the 14 Ministries counted 46 ascribed entities, 11 autonomous institutions, 20
autonomous enterprises and 5 decentralized entities under their purview. Each of these 82
entities represents an exemption from the core control-oriented framework operative within
the public sector. This plethora of exempt or partially exempt entities has resulted from
attempts over the years to create more flexible, independent public entities capable of
managing resources more effectively than is feasible within the core control-oriented
framework. This proliferation, then, represents a clear indictment of that framework. If that
framework did not represent a significant impediment to effective management, the incentive
to create such exempt or semi-exempt entities would be considerably weaker; and only a
fraction of these 82 entities would probably exist. Significantly, when the Government
enacted the Modernization of the State Law at the end of 1993, and its subsequent regulation,
which aimed at correcting many of the flaws in the existing public management framework,
it created just such an exempt autonomous entity to shepherd that modernization process --
the National Council for Modernization of the State (CONAM); yet another piece of evidence
that the existing central control-oriented framework is widely recognized as part of the
problem rather than part of the solution to improving the performance of the public sector in
Ecuador.



3                           Technical Annex
7. Proliferation of off-budget items and earmarked revenues. The Government's budget
formulation, execution and monitoring process is plagued with a proliferation of off-budget
items and earmarked revenues. These devices for circumventing the centralized and control-
driven budget process have proliferated specifically to avoid those centralized controls. They
represent yet another indictment of the ineffectiveness of that centralized framework: firstly,
it undermines managerial capacity, thereby engendering efforts to circumvent its constraints;
and secondly, each successful circumvention of those controls further erodes the capacity of
that system to either control expenditures or hold public managers accountable for the
resources they employ and the results they obtain with those resources.
8. The most obvious and glaring absence of full accounting in the budget is for the
resources allocated to the National Defense. Although the budgetary allocation to the
Ministry of Defense covers all projected direct compensation and a few additional
expenditures, it lacks the bulk of the purchases of materiel, since those are undertaken with
off-budget earmarked funds primarily from petroleum revenues. The military also controls
several public companies such as FLOPEC and TRANSNAVE, and is able to administer
funds arising from these companies with some leeway. With regard to the allocations to the
different ministries, the current budget system only allocates the direct costs of the programs
actually administered by the ministries along with the budgetary transfers to the numerous
entities ascribed to the ministries: entities that actually operate programs within the purview
of the ministries. Similarly, the allocations for external debt servicing only includes those
institutions that are fully incorporated into the budget and any explicit budgetary allocations
for the debt servicing of those entities not included in the budget.
9. The proposed budget also fails to fully reflect salary costs. By law, the budget is
presented to Congress in the last week of September of the previous year, and only includes
the known scheduled increases in public salaries. Since most of the negotiations for salaries
take place at the beginning of the fiscal year, the proposed budget usually severely
underestimates the final expenditures for wages and salaries. Not only does the budget
provide only a limited picture of public sector expenditure, but public and official debate is
quite limited. The budget evaluation also lacks the systematic input of affected groups.
10. The existence of numerous and significant expenditures that are not reflected in the
budget and accounting records of the Government is, like the proliferation of exempt and
semi-exempt entities, a reflection of continuous organizational and political end-runs around
the centralized control-oriented management framework in order to protect particular
programs or units and to permit them greater autonomy over their allocation of those



4                          Technical Annex
Table 1: Ecuador Public Employment, 1979-93
Year           Total Public       Population       Employment per
Employment'                             capita
1979             193,302           7,897,000           2.45%
1980             206,036           8,123,000           2.54%
1981             220,489           8,353,000           2.64%
1982             237,888           8,588,000           2.77%
1983             254,991           8,826,000           2.89%
1984             275,807           9,067,000            3.04%
1985             286,247           9,309,000            3.07%
1986             291,528           9,553,000            3.05%
1987             304,593           9,798,000           3.11%
1988             309,016          10,046,000            3.08%
1989             346,393          10,295,000           3.36%
1990             349,684          10,547,000           3.32%
1991             355,568          10,782,000           3.30%
1992             369,529          11,039,000           3.35%
1993             341,773          11,302,000            3.02%
Excluding uniformed military personnel.
Source: World Bank estimates based on data from World Tables and Government of Ecuador: CONADE;
Ministry of Finance; SENDA



5             Technical Annex
Ecuador Public Employment per Capita
1979-93
0.034
0.033
0.032
0.031
0.03
~a0 029
0.028
0.027
0.026
0.025
0.024
1979  1980  1981  198Z  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Year
figure 1



6                           Technical Annex
financial resources that escape the normal budget process scrutiny. In short, the weak
expenditure setting and execution capacities of the Government reflect the continual and
inexorable forces seeking means of circumventing the managerially debilitating impacts of the
centralized control-oriented financial management framework. The passage of the Budget
Law of 1992 is only the most recent reflection of the same widespread disaffection with the
incomplete and ineffective expenditure setting and execution capacity that has resulted from
these continual, and often successful, attempts to evade the constraints of the centralized
control-oriented financial management framework.
11. Proliferation of public sector labor regimes and weakened human resource
management capacity. Only about 16% of the total public sector labor force is actually
subject to the Ley de Servicio Civil y Carrera Administrativa. The remainder is subject to
various sector-specific public sector labor regimes (68%) (e.g., teachers, national police,
customs administration personnel, universities and poly-technical schools, or other public
agency labor regimes); is governed by any of a large number of collective contracts (15%);
or are hired under individual personal services contracts or are outside the normal labor
regimes (1 %) (see Table 2). This proliferation of labor regimes is another manifestation of
the failure of the centralized input-control-oriented management framework. The extreme
rigidity of the framework established by the Ley de Servicio Civil y Carrera Administrativa
and its centralized administration, the uncompetitive salaries allowed under that regime, the
bureaucratic red tape engendered by that regime in various types of personnel actions (e.g.,
in hiring, transferring, promoting and dismissing employees; in adjusting annual salaries,
etc.) have led not only individual public managers, but the legislature itself to design a
plethora of parallel labor regimes ostensibly better tailored to the unique circumstances of
specific sectors (e.g., education, police, armed forces, etc.). It also contributed to the
incorporation of Article 125 in the Constitution of 1975, which allowed public sector workers
to form unions and negotiate collective contracts with their employers. Public employees
have taken advantage of this latter provision to do just that; i.e., they have used yet one
more device for circumventing a dysfunctional, centralized, input-control-oriented human
resource management regime.
12. In short, the proliferation of public sector labor regimes, including the increasing
incidence of public employees governed by collective contracts under the private sector labor
law, constitute yet one more indictment of a malfunctioning management framework. This
proliferation not only illustrates widespread disillusionment with that centralized management
framework. At the same time, this proliferation undermines the Government's capacity to
meet even the basic aim of its centralized, input-control-oriented civil service framework --
namely, preventing misuse and abuse of authority over publicly managed resources -- since
each of the multitude of labor regimes exempt from the basic civil service framework tend to
be created with an eye to protecting the interests of the parties most directly affected by those
exempt labor regimes -- be it teachers, police, members of the individual public sector labor
unions, etc.



7                           Technical Annex
13. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining middle level management, professional and
technical personnel. Centrally fixed public sector salaries are low relative to those available
in the domestic private sector. More importantly, this discrepancy is more pronounced
among positions requiring higher level skills, such as managerial and higher level
professional positions. Table 3 reveals that within a sample of Central Government offices
and Ministries that encompasses many of the core Central Government functions, Directors
and Directors General receive on average only between about 6% and 29% of the
compensation their private sector counterparts receive; professionals receive between about
25% and 55% of their private sector counterparts; technical personnel receive between about
40% and 63% of the remuneration available for comparable positions in the private sector;
while low-skilled service workers tend to receive between about 50% and 100% of their
private sector counterparts. These comparisons are based on averages within career tracks in
each of these public agencies relative to specific private sector position types. As such, they
do not provide as clean a comparison as one would like. Nevertheless, their general pattern
is unmistakable: the higher the skill level, the less well remunerated are Central Government
employees relative to their private sector counterparts.
14. Under these conditions, it is not surprising to find that the Central Government has
considerable difficulty attracting and retaining highly skilled employees. Nor is it surprising
to find the previously mentioned widespread practices of hiring many high skill employees
under contractual arrangements that circumvent the civil service salary structure. While such
maneuvers solve the immediate problem faced by the executing unit, they ultimately
undermine the capacity of those units to function effectively; both because such practices
often undermine morale of the career civil servants and because excessive reliance on such
spot market contractual arrangements for key managerial functions can undermine the
institutional memory and shared institutional priorities and behavioral norms required for
effective management.
15. Proliferation of salary supplements. This pattern of not only lower wages in the public
sector, but progressively lower remuneration as the skill requirements increase is no secret
among higher level officials. Besides being widely recognized as a major contributor to the
difficulty of recruiting and retaining highly skilled managers and professionals, it has also
generated a plethora of salary supplements -- each aimed at some particular class of public
employees -- intended to counter the uncompetitive public sector salaries permitted under the
general salary scale. Whether that proliferation actually succeeds in bringing the pattern of
public sector salaries more into line with the private sector competition is difficult to
ascertain, since the budget data upon which the comparisons in Table 3 are based unreliably
measure total remuneration due to the budgeting of an unspecified component of salary
supplements in the "transfers" budget category.



8                            Technical Annex
Table 2: Ecuador Total Public Employment by Labor Regime (Dec. 1992)
Governmental Level and Labor Regime                            Percent of
Total Net of
Number of       Uniformed
Employees   Armed Forces
Gobierno Central net of uniformed armed forces     244341          66.1 %
Servicio Civil                                    46759          12.7%
C6digo de Trabajo                                 37809          10.2%
Fuera del Sistema                                  3190          0.9%
Maestros                                         111306          30.1%
Policia Aduanera                                   1225          0.3%
Policia Nacional                                  16601          4.5%
Fuerzas Armadas (non-uniformed)                    6263           1.7%
Universidades y Escuelas Politecnicas             18816          5.1%
Empleados por Contrata                             2372          0.6%
Gobiemo Regional                                    44230           12.0%
Servicio Civil                                    19853          5.4%
C6digo de Trabajo                                 24377          6.6%
Otras Instituciones del Sector Piblico              80958          21.9%
TOTAL Net of Uniformed Armed Forces                   369529         100.0%
Fuerzas Armadas (unifonned)                         53737          14.5%
Retirados                                           75390          20.4%
Retirados del Gobiemo Central                      4000           1.1 %
Otros retirados (IESS)                            71390          19.3%
GRAND TOTAL                                          498656          134.9%
Source: World Bank calculations based on: Elaboraci6n de Estudios Presupuestarios, cuadro presentado como
parte de una serie de documentos de trabajo en preparaci6n para el presupuesto de 1993, as reported in
International Development and Finance, Inc., "Informe Preliminar de la Misi6n de Programaci6n del MDP
Modernizaci6n del Estado Ecuatoriano," UNDP/MDP (May 1993), p.53; and Ecuador: Public Expenditure
Review: Changing the Role of the State, Report No. 10541-EC (The World Bank: August 13, 1993), Table
4.1, p. 48.



9             Technical Annex
Table 3: Ecuador 1993 Average Annual Government Salaries as Percent of Private Sector: Selected Central Government
Agencies
Position          Career Track       Private     Office of the    Office of the  SENDA        CONADE         Ministry of    Ministry
Sector      Presidency        Vice                                       Finance      of Public
Salary                     Presidency                                                  Works
Director General        Management          $47,483        11.6%          6.1%           11.0%         23.0%           8.2%         9.7%
Director                Management          $37,299        14.8%          7.7%           14.0%         29.3%          10.5%         12.4%
Lawyer/Advisor          Professional        $13,508        40.4%          25.4%          27.8%         31.5%          27.6%         28.1%
Economist               Professional        $13,837        39.5%          24.8%          27.2%         30.7%          27.0%         27.5%
Auditor                 Professional        $11,917        45.8%          28.8%          31.6%         35.7%          31.3%         31.9%
Accountant; Budget and   Professional       $11,917        45.8%          28.8%          31.6%         35.7%          31.3%         31.9%
Financial Administrator;
Budget and Financial
Analyst; Accountant
Examiner; Account
Analyst;
Auxiliary/Accountant
Analyst
Librarian               Professional        $ 9,683        56.4%          35.5%          38.8%         43.9%          38.5%         39.2%
Banking Analyst         Professional        $10,132        53.9%          33.9%          37.1%         42.0%          36.8%         37.5%
Engineer; Systems       Professional        $12,929        42.2%          26.6%          29.1%         32.9%          28.9%         29.4%
Analyst
Technician in central   Technical           $ 8,348        43.6%          42.3%                        40.2%          46.0%         41.8%
correspondence,
documentation,
microfilm
Central computer        Technical           $ 8,233        44.2%          42.9%                        40.7%          46.6%         42.4%
operator



10            Technical Annex
Position         Career Track       Private    Office of the   Office of the   SENDA        CONADE        Ministry of    Ministry
Sector      Presidency       Vice                                      Finance      of Public
Salary                    Presidency                                                 Works
Computer               Technical           $ 6,120       59.4%          57.6%                        54.8%         62.7%         57.0%
operator/keypuncher
Banking examiner       Administrative      $ 6,913       25.0%          48.3%          38.0%         34.6%         56.0%         42.3%
(receipts and payments);
Custodian; Vault
Security Guard;
Assistant/auxiliary in
banking
Secretary               Administrative     $ 7,910       21.8%          42.2%          33.2%         30.3%         48.9%         37.0%
Cleaning worker         Services           $ 3,783                      89.6%          64.5%         58.0%         101.4%        53.6%
Concierge              Services            $ 4,033                      84.0%         60.5%          54.4%         95.1%         50.3%
Chauffeur; Security     Services           $ 5,567                      60.9%         43.8%          39.4%         68.9%         36.4%
guard; Printing
equipment operator;
Bookkeeper



11                          Technical Annex
16. Over the years, base salaries have been augmented by adding 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th
month salaries to each civil servant's base salary, in an ad hoc attempt to top up public
sector salaries that were inexorably falling behind their private sector counterparts. But this
device has proved less than fully capable of keeping public sector salaries at any reasonable
fraction of private sector comparators. As a consequence, a plenitude of additional salary
supplements have come into existence, not only for career civil servants but also for public
workers governed by other labor regimes, such as collective contracts. No fewer than 32
such supplements currently exist in one or more of these labor regimes (see ?).
17. These salary supplements pose at least two serious problems. First, some of them
intended to reflect job demands -- such as level of responsibility, experience requirements,
education requirements, training requirements, etc. -- create perverse incentives. Salary
supplements for training received, for instance, create strong incentives for public employees
to seek training in order to qualify for the salary supplement, regardless of whether that
training improves their on-thejob performance. Since the budgetary system automatically
increases a budget executing unit's budget to cover these training-linked salary supplements,
line managers have no incentive to discourage their employees from obtaining useless
training. Furthermore, those managers are likely to view this device as a means of
enhancing their employees' salaries at no cost to their unit.
18. Second, many of these salary supplements are tied to factors that have nothing to do with
job demands and represent little more than a string of ad hoc attempts to enhance salaries of
particular, easily mobilized subsets of employees without overhauling the basic salary
structure by providing targeted salary supplements based on various personal or family
circumstances (e.g., birth of a child, death, housing assistance, domestic calamity, housing
calamity, family allowance, etc.).
19. In sum, the highly centralized, input-control oriented public management system that has
evolved in Ecuador fails in its primary aim; to control and limit the use of publicly held
financial and human resources. Public employment, for instance, grew inexorably over the
last decade and one-half. More importantly, it actually generates the seeds of its own
malfunctioning. The highly centralized budget system has generated a proliferation of
devices for circumventing the normal budgetary process, including earmarked revenues and
off-budget activities. Similarly, the centralized financial control system, including but not
limited to both the extremely cumbersome procurement process and the reliance on pre-
control, have led to the proliferation of autonomous entities exempt from many of those
controls. The highly centralized personnel management system has also generated a plethora
of labor regimes, salary supplements and other devices for circumventing the controls built
into that system.
20. Even more importantly, however, that system undermines good management and
generates poor management of public resources. For all of these reasons, the Government of
Ecuador is now undertaking to create a public management framework that will ensure fiscal
control without undermining public management capacity; a framework that will reward



12                         Technical Annex
public managers for effectively and efficiently providing the public services for which they
are responsible; a framework that will withdraw resources from unproductive activities.
21. Management Reform Efforts The Public Budgets Law mandated program budgeting,
which is an important step forward. Highlights of this Law include:
(a) increased coverage of the obligation to submit budget proformas to the MFCP, to
include the entire central administration;
(b) introduction of program budgeting;
(c) reduction of earmarking, introduction of requirements for justification of earmarked
funds;
(d) utilization of the banking system for public sector payments;
(e) requirement for public sector cash management, with annual cash programs initially
prepared by executing agencies and authorized by SP and ST;
(f) replacement of individual expenditure authorization by SP and ST with monthly
credit line replenishments based on the pre-approved cash programs;
(g) requirement for investment planning, giving SGP responsibility for investment
project approval;
(h) provision for multi-year investment programs.
22. But despite its intellectual appeal, program budgeting has a sorry implementation history.
The typical pattern is for agencies to develop both a line item budget and a performance
budget -- the latter to satisfy reporting requirements, while the former really guides both
management decision-making and the legislature's budget allocation process. For program
budgets to alter resource allocation decisions, the incentive structure facing management must
also change in a way that makes both management and the political authorities condition their
resource allocation decisions on program outcomes, rather than on programs as budget
aggregations (i.e., organizational units or bureaucracies). In the latter case, budgetary
decisions typically take the form of adding a modest increment to each program's
(organizational unit's) previous budget period's allocation; while managers of programs
operate under the same input-control oriented public management framework as they did
under a line-item budgetary process. The result is no behavioral change other than the
generation of a second budget presentation. Consequently, for the program budget mandated
by the Ley de Presupuesto to yield any tangible improvements, it must be accompanied by
changes in the incentive structure faced by public managers and political decision-makers.



13                                 Technical Annex
Text Box 1: Types of Salary Supplements Available
Core Forms of Remuneration
1.  Sueldos Basicos
2.  Escalaf6n
3.  Bonificaci6n por Jefatura y por Cauci6n
4.  Gastos de Representaci6n
5.  Subsistencias
6.  Bonificaci6n de Campo
7.  Sueldo Complementario
8.  Horas Suplementarias y Extraordinarias
Social Benefits Salary Supplements
1.  Servicio Medico y Dental
2.  Atenci6n Medica y Farmaceutica
3.  Obligaciones Generales de INECEL
4.  Atenci6n Medica Urgente
5.  Pagos de Diferencia de Remuneraci6n por Enfermedad
6.  Consultorios Medicos a Cargo de las Organizaciones Laborales
7.  Ayuda por Nacimiento de un Hijo
8.  P61iza de Vida en Grupo y Asistencia Medica para los Trabajadores y Familiares
9.  Ayuda para Atenci6n Medica en el Exterior
10. Ayuda por Fallecimiento
11. Ayuda para Vivienda
12. Vivienda para Trabajadores
13. Anticipo por Calamidad Domestica o Vivienda
14. Subsidio Familiar
15. Subsidio por Antiguedad
16. Bonificaci6n de Mayo y Noviembre
17. Bonificaci6n de Octubre
18. Subsidio Educacional
19. Aguinaldo Navidehlo
20. Estimulo por Tiempo de Servicio
21. Estimulo Econ6mico por Trabajos Especiales
22. Beneficio Econ6mico por jubilaci6n
23. Jubilaci6n a cargo de INECEL
24. Seguro de Cesantia Adicional
25. Retiro por Conveniencia Institucional
26. Renuncia Voluntaria
27. Coinisariato
28. Centros Vacacionales
29. Complejo Recreacional e Instalaciones Deportivas
30. Guarderia Infantil
31. Centros de Educaci6n en el Paute y Pucara
32. Campamentos, Colonias y Cursos Vacacionales
23. Fortunately, the Modernization of the State Law (LMOS) provides a mechanism for
accomplishing this; namely, the public agency restructuring process mandated in that law.



14                          Technical Annex
For that restructuring process to materially affect the service delivery performance of
particular public agencies, it must build incentives around the outputs of the programs for
which the Budget Law mandates budget formulation, execution, reporting and control. This
cannot be accomplished by central fiat. It requires that incentives be built into the
management framework faced by public agencies and their managers, and that those
incentives be fundamental enough and large enough to elicit management's commitment to
effectively and efficiently produce the outputs for which their agencies are responsible. The
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project is designed specifically to address
this challenge. It builds on the framework established by the Government in these two
milestone laws -- the Public Budgets Law and the Modernization of the State Law.
24. Besides securing the approval of important legislation, since assuming office in August
1992, the Government has taken a number of administrative measures to modernize its
economy and reform its public sector. The public sector payroll has been reduced by 21,000
employees representing more than 5 percent of public employment, and the Government has
begun to contract with the private sector for the delivery of important services. The
Government has also begun a program of public sector divestiture and deregulation of the
economy, with the sale of public sector assets and shares owned in small enterprises and with
the elimination of a large number of obsolete regulations. The Government has advanced the
development of procedures for implementation of the Budget Law, and has developed a
strategy to establish an incentive program for the restructuring of public sector agencies,
whereby those agencies that meet certain goals of employment reduction and sales of assets
can apply a portion of the savings to improve the existing depressed salary scale. At least
five public entities, or units thereof, have already been restructured according to preliminary
guidelines developed by SENDA.
25. Future Priorities. The reforms in the public sector aim to restructure ministries and
agencies according to a process of redefinition of objectives and goals and to modernize their
management. A key tool for effecting those changes and establishing better priorities in
public sector will be the implementation of the Budget Law.
26. This will entail the need for all public sector institutions to present their budget for
review and certification by the Ministry of Finance, before approval. The presentation of the
Budget will have to be accompanied by a catalog of their activities, programs, objectives,
measurable goals, the number of civil servants and positions available, and their debts.
During the presentation of the 1996 Budget, the Government will introduce the multi-annual
budgeting plan as called for under the law.
27. The law also requires, and the Executive will ensure, that all investment projects by
public sector entities be included in the annual investment plans and reviewed by the
Secretariat of Planning (SGP) before its inclusion in the budget. For this purpose, SGP will
have to strengthen its capacity to analyze investment projects and to issue rulings on the
project's compliance with sound investment criteria. The Government is preparing an



15                         Technical Annex
implementation plan outlining the criteria for such reviews and the measures that will be
taken to guarantee the capacity of SGP to attend to its mandate.
28. An important change in budgetary execution will be the elimination before January 1995
of existing drawing authorizations (cupos de giros) for each expenditure by MFCP. A new
system of authorizations will be extended according to cash flow programming that is
consistent with each agency's budget. The transfer of funds will be done automatically with
the introduction of a budget payments system through the private banking network. This
new form of payments will replace the existing central control with a decentralized system of
budgetary management, thereby greatly increasing efficiency and establishing accountability.
The Executive is coordinating closely with the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) in the
introduction of the new payments system to ensure it contributes to the appropriate
management of monetary and macroeconomic policies.
29. The Budget Law made a substantial contribution to sound fiscal management by limiting
the practice of earmarking of revenues. To ensure that future legislation does not weaken or
erode the progress achieved so far, the Executive is committed to prevent the introduction of
any earmarking provisions not consistent with its policy of cost recovery and revenue
strengthening. Furthermore, the Government will embark on a review of existing
earmarking programs to determine those that will be gradually phased out.
30. To rationalize the current system of transfers, the Government will introduce safeguards
that any investment project financed with transfers outside the original program (through
extra-budgetary transfers) complies with the same prerequisites of any other investment
project included in the budget. Furthermore, the Government intends to establish new
criteria, consistent with the existing revenue sharing program, for the system of transfers that
will be incorporated in a new legal framework for decentralization that will be sent to
Congress in 1995. This law will also set the guidelines for a program of decentralization of
responsibilities and activities within the public sector.
31. Implementation of the budgetary reform will require the introduction of a new system of
public debt management and control in both the MFCP and the BCE as well as the need to
strengthen the counterpart units within MFCP in general and the SP, in particular. The new
debt information system will be installed before January 1995, when the Government expects
to have achieved substantial progress in the restructuring the central budget agencies to give
then the institutional capacity to operate the new budget process.
32. Another component of the modernization program is to make effective use of the
Modernization of the State LAW (LMOS) to effect a reduction in public sector employment
and to accelerate the program of public sector restructuring. The law introduced an incentive
program of indemnization for those civil servants who decide to leave the public sector
before the end of 1996. The Government expects that an additional 5.5 percent of public
employees will take advantage of the program. The present value of the indemnization costs
for these additional departures is projected to reach approximately US$195 million, which is



16                          Technical Annex
expected to be financed through bonds, which will be retired via proceeds from divestment of
assets plus a fraction of the salary savings achieved through those employment reductions.
33. Effective use of the indemnization program will be accomplished through the
restructuring program for public sector agencies. This program, managed by SENDA,
requires that each agency or ministry present a restructuring plan to increase efficiency and
improve services (within the goals and objectives identified in the budget process) along with
a plan for reduction of personnel and sale of assets, if any. Once this restructuring plan is
approved by CONAM and SENDA, the agency will be able to retain a percentage of its
current savings to upgrade the salary scale of its employees, will receive support for the
implementation of the plan, will be given the financial and technical support to improve its
information and management system, and will be given greater financial and administrative
autonomy. The Government is committed to having a significant number of key agencies
complete their restructuring program by June 1995, and the rest by early 1996.
Lessons Learned
34.    Lessons from general Bank experience: Poor institutional capacity is one of the
most important hurdles to the implementation of investment projects in developing countries.
Unfortunately, Bank experience with institutional development TA projects has proved
disappointing for a variety of reasons. The proposed project would be designed to address
these constraints: supply-driven TA, lack of commitment on the part of target institutions;
insufficient preparation and short implementation times, based on over-optimistic estimates;
TA fund-based, as opposed to project-focused implementation approach; Bank-driven,
extremely ambitious scope; weak monitoring, lacking measurable outputs; and excessive
reliance on expatriate consultants.
35.    Successful TA projects, on the other hand, exhibit some characteristics which the
proposed project would strive to replicate: avoiding the danger of institutional proliferation
by utilizing and strengthening existing institutions rather than creating new ones, and
dismantling unnecessary ones; introducing standard or routinized management and
administrative procedures; and establishing a process approach to project methodology with
well-defined, measurable results to facilitate project management and monitoring.
36.    In the LAC region, TA projects follow patterns that confirm the global experience,
with the added complexity of multiple components, implementing agencies and donors.
Another lesson from past experience, the need for in-depth analytic and sector work to
precede public sector reform TA projects, has been met in this case, as a major Public
Expenditure Review, which analyzed the fundamental issues facing Ecuador's public sector,
including its budgetary and civil service arrangements, preceded project preparation.
37. Lessons from previous Bank proiects in Ecuador: In Ecuador, the weakness of the
public sector managerial and administrative capacity is reflected in the active loan portfolio,
which, as of March 1994, numbered 14 approved projects (totalling US$723.9 million in



17                          Technical Annex
commitments), of which 11 have explicit institution-building components. Recognizing the
persistent weakness of the Ecuadoran public sector, institution building is a major objective
of the Bank's lending strategy: of the 7 projects in the proposed FY94-96 lending program
(totalling US$ 243.6 million), 5 are for technical assistance.
38. A pervasive issue in Ecuador is political fragmentation, coupled with the mandatory
change in administration every four years, which suggests the need for short-term, tangible
results to accompany to longer-term objectives. The Public Financial Management and
Control component of the proposed project would address this need. Additional issues to
consider include the requirement for focused identification of project components; the
frequent turnover of managers; the critical requisite for an active, well-connected project
leader; the requirements for strong coordination among implementing agencies and among
donors (especially the 1DB); the need for close project supervision; and the possibility of
diminishing official commitment as the electoral process approaches. Project design would
also safeguard against Project Coordination Units eventually substituting for real and
sustainable institution-building actions by ensuring that training and technology transfer take
place during project implementation and are institutionalized.
Institutional Framework
39. The main institutions involved in the design and implementation of the Government's
public sector reform and modernization efforts are the following:
40. The Council for Modernization of the State (CONAM) was created by Decree No.
143 (Official Register No. 42, October 7, 1992) as a dependency of the Office of the
President, initially to assist with the privatization of parastatals. The President of CONAM
is appointed by the President of the Republic. CONAM's broader function as embodied in
the LMOS is to establish the legal, economic, financial, technical, social, political and
human resource base to fulfill the MOS initiative. In this regard it is to help develop the
mechanisms necessary to obtain and channel private national and international financial
resources to implement privatization initiatives. It also is required to complete the evaluation
studies necessary, with the cooperation of SENDA and other Government agencies, and
define an action plan for each measure undertaken in the Government's modernization
process.
41. The Executive Director of CONAM is given the responsibility for its day-to-day
operations, including assisting the Council in the study, design, and implementation of the
MOS programs, as well as proposing ways to obtain and channel resources to carry out these
programs. CONAM's Executive Director is also responsible for proposing an annual
program of activities and designating and contracting for services to fulfill CONAM's
mandate.
42. The entities and organisms in the public sector are obligated to provide CONAM with
the necessary studies, reports, statistical data, financial status, and general administrative and



18                          Technical Annex
economic information, technical support, and any other request solicited to assure compliance
with MOS objectives in accordance with the law.
43. The Project Working Group (PWG) will be lodged in CONAM and will be responsible
for overseeing day-to-day project implementation by the respective executing agencies and
for making policy recommendations for CONAM's approval. Project administration will be
handled by a project Administrative Unit, lodged within CONAM, and headed by the
Administrative Coordinator for the project. All policy decisions with respect to the execution
of the project would be made by the Executive Director of CONAM, a cabinet-level
appointee by the President.
44. Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFCP), within the context of the new Budget
Law (Title I, Article 3) is responsible for establishing the policies, norms, technical
specifications, as well as actions and for executing, coordinating, evaluating, and determining
the balance of public sector budgets (with the exception of the Social Security Institute). As
part of the reform effort, MFCP directs the fiscal policy and coordinates the national system
of public budgets with the SGP to assure compliance with the Budget Law.
45. Entities and organisms of government by law must observe the budgetary process
according to the general lines of action, directives, and strategies of economic and social
policy, as well as the short and medium-term national development plans and programs of
the Government. Moreover, the MFCP now must establish budgetary classifications that will
provide the framework for budgetary management (Title II, Article 10(c)). These
classifications are obligatory for budgeting throughout the public sector.
46. National Secretariat for Administrative Development (SENDA) was created by Ley
16 in February 1989 (subsequently published in the Official Registry March 7, 1989). The
regulatory framework for the internal functions of SENDA appeared in the form of a
Ministerial Accord No. 056 of July 26, 1990, published in the Official Register August 9,
1990. Its purpose is to: (a) delineate administrative policies and formulate and execute
programs, evaluate the efficiency of operations in the public administration and fulfill the
purposes and objectives programmed; (b) monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of public
sector institutions to carry out their responsibilities; (c) investigate complaints and claims
about the service in the management of public funds; advise the public sector institutions on
their reorganization and administrative structure and in the adoption of technical
administrative procedures appropriate to improve their public services. SENDA also
provides assistance in the restructuring of public sector entities and their dependencies.
47. National Planning Secretariat (SGP) sets general economic and social policies and
develop corresponding development plans. The actions, duties, responsibilities, and
attributions of SGP are oriented to meet the institutional objectives and purposes, which
requires the establishment of an adequate technical and administrative framework. According
to Decree No. 249A, l993, sets general economic and social policies. Development and
reform plans are submitted for approval by the President of the Republic. SGP also proposes



19                          Technical Annex
the modalities and sources of funds for the financing of national, regional, and provincial
development plans. SGP also recommends government budgetary priorities as well as for
other entities and organisms in the public sector, and determines the general policies for
external assistance relative to the national development plans. SGP coordinates the execution
and evaluation of the development plans with sector organisms, business, labor and social
organizations, and the National Social Security Council. Finally, SGP is responsible for
countering the proliferation of parallel programs and for assessing the progress toward the
effective regionalization of the country in terms of the results of agreed national planning and
development policies.
48. Comptroller General of the State (CGE) is the government agency responsible for the
systems of accounting and auditing for public resources, which functions are described in the
Ley Organica de Administraci6n Financiera y Control (LOAFYC) in article 303 and its 26
articles, relative to its responsibility to set public sector standards by to emitting policies,
norms, manuals, and other regulations that permit the design, installation, and functioning of
accounting and auditing systems, with reference to articles 6, 7, and 13 of LOAFYC. Within
the context of the MOS initiative, and specifically its purposes of installing an integrated
financial management system, the framework is given in articles 128 of the Political
Constitution, Article 2 of the Budget Law, and Article 383 of the LOAFYC. In accordance
with Article 59 of the Constitution of the State, the Comptroller General of the State, head of
CGE, is appointed by Congress, based on a candidate proposed by the President of the
republic. Article 116 of the Constitution indicates that the Controller General's appointment
will be for four years.
49. LOAFYC provides CGE with an ample mandate, involving the following principal
functions and responsibilities: (a) perform financial and operational audits of entities and
agencies subject to its control, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards; (b)
review and evaluate the quality of audits performed by the internal audit units (throughout the
public sector); (c) qualify, select and appoint private firms to perform independent audits of
entities and agencies subject to its control, and supervise their work; (d) control or overview
public civil works projects, employing necessary techniques to accomplish the control of all
phases involved; (e) perform special examinations over tax revenues and/or non-tax revenues
of public entities and agencies, with a view to issuing recommendations to improve
procedures relating to the issuance of public debt titles and the collection of revenues; (f)
issue and update policies, procedures, standards, manuals and instructions, with respect to
government auditing and government accounting, including the consolidations of financial
information; (g) prescribe the form and content of financial reports to be presented to MFCP,
to CGE and to Junta de Planificaci6n; (h) provide technical assistance to public entities and
agencies with regard to the implementation of systems and procedures; (i) norm, coordinate
and provide technical training to public service personnel; (j) manage the government
accounting systems and control of the state resources systems; (k) others as the law requires.



20                          Technical Annex
Project Description.
Component I: Public Financial Management and Control
50. The Public Financial Management and Control component of the project would have the
general objective of streamlining and modernizing the processes of planning, budgeting,
budget execution, accounting and control of the Ecuadoran public sector, in accord with the
mandate of the Public Budgets Law. Activities within this component fall into seven broad
categories: (i) budget and treasury system; (ii) public credit/debt management system; (iii)
accounting system; (iv) auditing of public resources; (v) public contracting; (vi) payroll and
personnel systems; and (vii) integration of the information systems covered by the other
subcomponents.
51. Subcomponent 1: Public Budget and Treasury System This sub-component includes
five distinct sets of activities designed to:
(a) strengthen the medium-term budgetary system, enabling the projection of medium-
term income and expenditures and the linking of the budget process with medium-
term investments in the context of a multi-year budget;
(b) strengthen the budget formulation process by introducing an integrated budget
structure for Public Sector Entities, featuring quantified program objectives,
financial projections of revenues and expenditures in a cash budget, and limited use
of earmarked funds;
(c) strengthen budget execution through implementation of a system to manage and
supervise budget execution, for the support of program management and
accountability, including the corresponding normative manuals and accounting
procedures that allow payments to be made through the banking system;
(d) strengthen program control and evaluation, through implementing a system covering
all financial transactions and investments of selected Public Sector Entities; and
(e) developing the capacity to manage and supervise modernization funds to support
investments in social development.
52. Medium-term budgetary process activities are intended to tie the budget formulation and
execution process to the planning process in order to ensure that the budget allocations are in
fact responsive to the policies of the Government, and its execution is consistent with the
established program goals. In addition it will extend the planning horizon beyond one year
into the medium term (four years), allowing for the formulation and evaluation of multi-year
investment plans. It will also involve a delineation of responsibilities for the planning process
among the SGP, the SP and the executing agencies. It will include the establishment of
norms, procedures and methodologies for: (i) the formulation of medium-term
macroeconomic, sectoral and budgetary policies; (iii) the evaluation of the consistency of
investment plans with public policy; (iv) the formulation of the annual investment plan; (v)
the processing of multi-year investment projects. In addition, it will provide for quality



21                          Technical Annex
evaluations of program budget execution in cooperation with SGP. Specific activities for this
sub-component are:
(a) identifying areas of responsibility for the planning process and its inputs to the
budgeting process; establishing information flows among the institutions responsible
for the function: the executing agencies, the SGP and the SP;
(b) establishing norms, procedures and methodologies for the coordination, formulation
and evaluation of medium-term multi-year macro-economic, sectoral and budgetary
policies based on the Government's agenda;
(c) establishing norms, procedures and methodologies for the formulation of the annual
investment program, based on medium-term policies and for the formulation and
financial management of multi-year investment projects;
(d) preparing a draft Public Investments Law.
53. Budget Formulation and Cash Programming (SP/ST) activities are intended to create the
capacity to formulate program budgets and to program cash income and expenditure on a
yearly basis, at the MFCP and at all administrative levels of the central government entities,
with a view to strengthening the entities' planning capabilities and increasing their
accountability for investment projects in the long run. The 1994 central government budget
has been prepared based on the new guidelines, although most of the effort involved various
units at MFCP, and much work remains to be done, especially at the decentralized entities.
Procedures, manuals and training courses to assist staff in the transition to the new system
are under preparation. Even though it is the Government's policy to reduce the usage of
earmarked funds throughout the economy, a number of instances exist where this practice
remains and the new Budget Law regulates their reporting. A yearly study of the extent of
earmarking will be conducted and strict enforcement of the Law's reporting requirements will
be put in place. Specific activities of this sub-component would include:
(a) development of a uniform coding structure, a methodology for projections,
simulations and budget formulation for use in the public sector planning, budgeting
and accounting processes, by all institutions, centralized and decentralized;
(b) establishment of a yearly analysis of earmarked income and expenditure in the public
sector entities, and development of the norms and procedures for their budgeting and
expenditure;
(c) development of the norms and procedures for the preparation of the annual cash
program by the public sector entities and for their evaluation and consolidation at the
SP;
(d) development of the norms and procedures for establishing yearly deficit/surplus
agreements with public sector enterprises;
(e) development of the norms, procedures and methodologies for central budget
evaluation by the SP and strengthen its ability to adjust the budget submissions of
the entities to macroeconomic targets and to the Government's policies;
(f) development of budget formulation and evaluation capacity at the entity level,
establish training programs and produce manuals and guidelines for their staff, and



22                          Technical Annex
conduct periodic reviews of their practices during the first three years of project
implementation.
54. Budget Execution (ST) activities are meant to reform the process of budget execution to
shift responsibility for payment approval away from the ST to the entities, automating as far
as possible the payments process and ensuring the availability of funds for accrued payments,
by: (i) developing the entities' capacity for cash management and placing responsibility for
approval of individual payments with them; (ii) establishing credit lines for each entity at the
BCE, to be replenished monthly by the ST on the basis of the budget and the annual cash
program (iii) using the private banking system for public sector payments and (iv) improving
the ST's capacity to project income and payments by establishing information flows with the
Subsecretarfa de Rentas for tax income and the SCP for debt service payments. Specific
activities under this subcomponent would include:
(a) establishing norms and procedures for cash projection and treasury management and
the necessary changes to insure information flows at the BCE, the SR, the SCP and
the ST;
(b) establishing norms and procedures for using the private banking system to effect
public sector payments;
(c) implementing the new treasury procedures by disseminating them to all entities of
the public sector and conducting reviews of the application of the new procedures
after their adoption by the entities;
(d) implementing the processing of public sector payments via the private banking
system;
55. Program Control and Evaluation activities will establish requirements and indicators for
control and evaluation within the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Secretariat
General of Planning, the Central Bank of Ecuador and the National Secretariat for
Administrative Development. It will establish methodologies and guidelines for budget
controls in the areas of budget authorization, budget execution through the banking network,
budget commitments, budget payments, budget modifications as well as the investment
budget. Budget evaluation will be strengthened in macroeconomic policy, budget
programming, the Annual Investment Program, sectoral budgets and regional budgets.
56. An important element of this subcomponent will be to reorganize all areas of the MFCP,
to adapt their structures to their new functions in the radically changed financial management
environment. The SP has completed this process; the ST has initiated it; the SCP is yet at an
early planning stage. Specific activities would include completing the reorganization of the
ST and planning and executing the reorganization of the SCP.
57. Modernization Funds activities will develop the management framework, structures and
guidelines required to exercise appropriate fiduciary responsibility in the management of
special funds generated by the modernization process and dedicated to enhancing productive
investments in social infrastructure.



23                          Technical Annex
58. Subcomponent 2: Debt Management/Public Credit System This subcomponent is
meant to (i) improve planning for public debt contracting and its relation to the budget
planning and cash management functions; (ii) improve the procedures for debt servicing and
establish the related information flows between the SCP, the ST and the BCE that are
required in order to manage the treasury function; (iii) train a selected cadre of staff of the
SCP and BCE in financial matters relating to contract evaluation, derivative instruments
(options, swaps, futures), asset/liability management, financial (currency and interest rate)
and commodity risk hedging. Specific activities would include:
(a) analyzing the legal framework for debt management to identify potential
shortcomings in the planning, negotiating and contracting of public debt, especially
as relates to Government debt guarantees;
(b) defining and regulating the roles of the MFCP areas (SCP, ST, SP) and of the BCE
that participate in debt management, and establishing the required information flows;
(c) specifying the information system required to support debt management taking into
account the needs of all the agencies involved;
(d) acquiring and installing, if possible, on a turnkey basis, a debt management
information system that will allow all agencies involved to have complete, timely
information on loans, commitments, guarantees, disbursements, payment schedules
and debt service;
(e) designing financial training courses based on the needs of the agencies involved and
on their available staff resources; selecting or recruiting the required human
resources; delivering the training courses.
59. Subcomponent 3: Government Accounting This subcomponent is meant to improve
the accounting process, by decentralizing it to the central government entities, and by
improving the timeliness of the accounting cycle. Specific activities would include:
(a) improving the definition of the roles of the individual entities, the ST and the CGE
in the accounting process, including the establishment of tight timetables for the
delivery of information;
(b) participating in the specification of accounting requirements for the SIGEF, to be
incorporated in the financial management and administrative information systems,
rather than as separate application systems;
(c) ensuring adherence to standards of general acceptance resulting in information of
quality and timeliness required for decision making.
60. Subcomponent 4: Audit of Public Resources The CGE is undergoing a modernization
process, intended to shift its operating policy in three major aspects: (i) modifying its ex-
ante, sanctioning role and assuming an ex-post, fraud-preventing, efficiency-seeking, and
normative stance; and (ii) changing from an operational auditor role to that of a supervisor of
contracts for audits performed by private sector firms; and (iii) assuming its role as overseer
of the internal audit units that the Budget Law creates in all public sector agencies. This
subcomponent is meant to assist the CGE in these initiatives, while focusing on: (i) the



24                          Technical Annex
implementation of the audit and control provisions of the new Budget Law. Specific actions
would include:
(a) establishing norms, procedures, methodologies and manuals for all types of controls
mandated by the Budget Law: ex-ante, concurrent, ex-post, random, operating,
informatics; and for the contracting of private sector audits. The function of
controlling the State resources should encompass "normatividad" and control ex-post
and should exclude case-by-case control ex-ante, in any of its forms;
(b) participating in the specification of audit and control requirements for the SIGEF, to
be incorporated in the financial management and administrative information systems,
rather than as separate application systems;
(c) reorganizing the CGE to conform to its policy changes and to its new role in the
financial management environment created by the new Budget Law, specifically in
the regulation and supervision of the internal audit units that the Law provides for in
all public sector agencies. The main purpose of this reorganization would be to
achieve decentralization and to create a high level cluster of four principal functional
departments, reporting directly to Controller General;
61. Subcomponent 5: Public Sector Contracting This sub-component will include
activities to modernize the legal framework and operating practices for public sector
contracting. This will be accomplished by drafting a new public sector procurement law and
its regulation, to cover the procurement of all public sector acquisitions of goods and
services, local and international; assisting in the design of the administrative processes and
information systems to support the procurement function, and the design of training programs
for staff handling procurement processes throughout the public sector. The provisions of the
new procurement law would be expected to include international bidding standards covering
assurances, among others, that foreign bidders would not be required to have their financial
solvency, guarantees, registration, and other conditions for bidding, be recertified by local
institutions in addition to already existing certification from acceptable foreign institutions
(e.g.: banks, government agencies).
62. Subcomponent 6: Payroll and Personnel Subsystem This sub-component is intended
to integrate the management of human resources throughout the public sector with the rest of
financial management in an integrated and distributed manner by:
(a) establishing a human resources management subsystem, integrated with the SIGEF
to maintain a centralized database of public sector employees at SENDA, that will
support the functions of personnel management at SENDA and at each Ministry, and
which will be accessible on-line from all the participating agencies and from the
MFCP;
(b) establishing a payroll subsystem, and the corresponding regulations, integrated with
the SIGEF that will ensure that no public sector employee, regardless of status
(servicio civil, c6digo de trabajo, contratos eventuales, et al.), will be in the payroll



25                         Technical Annex
unless his or her designation has prior SENDA approval and is included in the
appropriate budget category ("partida presupuestaria").
(c) redesigning affected operational procedures and practices for the adoption of the
human resources and personnel sub-systems of the SIGEF; training of users at the
various institutions; implementing the sub-systems; and specifying desired
performance standards for the monitoring of the human resource and payroll
management functions.
63. Subcomponent 7: Integration of Information Systems The purpose of this sub-
component is to ensure that the information systems required to support financial and
administrative functions throughout the Ecuadoran public sector, which would comprise the
SIGEF, would be of high quality, compatible, and could be interconnected, and would
coordinate their acquisition across the numerous institutions involved in order to benefit from
economies of scale. Specific activities under this component would include:
(a) specifying, acquiring and implementing a prototype system to serve the dual purpose
of (i) facilitating the specification of the SIGEF and (ii) providing bare-bones
informatics support to the new financial management environment during the time --
estimated at one year-- between the effectiveness of the Budget Law and the full
implementation of the SIGEF;
(b) carrying out an informatics plan;
(c) functional specification of the application systems to support the financial
management and administrative functions, incorporating the requirements of the
control and audit functions throughout all applications;
(d) management of the acquisitions process for the SIGEF hardware, system software,
application software and site management;
(e) management of the SIGEF adaptation, installation and user training processes;
(f) transition of SIGEF management to permanent organizational arrangements.
64. The process of specifying and acquiring the SIGEF will be managed by
the Informatics Commission, comprising representatives from the systems areas of the
agencies involved, and chaired by the Informatics Coordinator in CONAM. The first
activity of the Informatics Commission will be the formulation of the Informatics Plan, which
will specify:
(a) the organizational framework for the SIGEF, including the option of out-sourcing
the operation (site management) of the systems to private sector contractors;
(b) the SIGEF system-wide specifications, defined in terms of standard performance
measures, including service level requirements, response times, transaction traffic
and peak work loads, storage requirements, user interfaces, maintenance
requirements, documentation, archiving, security, version control, backup and
recovery procedures;
(c) the appropriate technology environment to support it, including the hardware
(servers, work stations, media) and system software (OS, NOS, database engine and



26                           Technical Annex
other system tools) architecture; and the telecommunications (LAN, WAN)
infr-astructure; and the required warranties;
(d) the functional specification of the application systems to support the financial
miana(cement and administrative functions, incorporating the requirements of the
conitrol and audit functions throughout all applications, and based on the norms and
regulations emilanatinig from the Budget Law, which will be designed by the relevant
institutions' specialists and consultants, within their respective components;
(e) the office automation (word processing, spreadsheet, database) and user services (e-
mail, groupware, news services) requirements;
(f) the technical requirements for systems management, specifically: configuration
management, remote diagnostics, capacity planning, enhancement and expansions
management;
(g) the training requirements at various levels: (i) system managers; (ii) IT contract
managers: (iii) system operators; (iv) system software engineers; (v) application
soitware engineers (vi) application software end users; (vii) basic computer skills for
end-users;
(h) thie detailed financial plan and schedule for the implementation of the SIGEF,
including refining the estimates of the number of supported institutions and
executing units. their requirements and timing and their possible access to other
sources of financing; and
(i) the selection criteria for the evaluation of bids for the integrator company and the
acceptance process, including the taking of performance measures.
65. The Informiiatics Commission was formally constituted in 1994, and its members should
be appointed no later than 12/94. Bidding documents will be prepared by the PWG,
consistent with Bank g uidelines. The bidding process, the selection of contractors, vendors
and consultants and adaptation of systems will be executed according to the schedule defined
in the Informatics Plan.
66. A debt managzernent needs assessment, conducted under the technical leadership of
UNCTAD, should be completed by 5/95; installation and completion dates, as well as costs
for the debt management system implementation should be set forth in this study. Further
details of this portion of the program are in the Project Files.
67. A det.iled description of the informatics aspects of SIGEF may be found in the Project
Files.
Component II: Public Sector Modernization
68. Objectives: The objectives of this component are (i) to enhance the quantity and quality
of specific public services provided through central government agencies, excluding the
autonomous institutes and public enterprises, without increasing public expenditures and (ii)
to create an institutional framework that creates incentives that promise not only to sustain
these improvements but also to continuously expand and augment them.



27                          Technical Annex
69. Strategv: The public sector modernization strategy is built around two basic principles:
imposition of timely and reliable controls coupled with the creation of strong incentives for
public agencies and their managers and employees to produce needed public services
effectively and efficiently. Financial controls are to be provided within the financial
management component of the project; while the public sector modernization component --
and in particular, the restructuring strategy encompassed within this component -- creates the
incentive framework necessary to complement those strengthened and streamlined financial
controls. Timely and effective controls are essential both to prevent abuse of authority -- be
it over financial or human resources -- and to establish one of the preconditions for an
incentives-based public management framework; namely, binding resource constraints. A
coherent and integrated incentive framework is essential because the managers and other
employees of public agencies, being human beings, respond to incentives. Moreover, the
performance of those agencies is fundamentally determined by their managers and
employees. The challenge is to get the incentives facing those managers and employees
properly designed.
70. Consistent with these principles, the approach detailed below creates incentives for
individual central government agencies to restructure in order to improve their capacity to
deliver clearly specified services to their clients, lodging responsibility for taking the
initiative to do so with those line agencies. A detailed statement of precisely this incentives-
based restructuring strategy may be found in Attachment 1. This strategy resists the
temptation to have a central agency, such as CONAM or SENDA, restructure those line
agencies itself; because it recognizes that if the restructuring process is to yield significant
and sustained service provision improvements, it must be driven by the initiative of the
affected agencies and their employees. Nonetheless, CONAM and SENDA will play a
crucial role in this process, as they establish and enforce the incentive framework within
which all restructurings will be undertaken.
71. The public sector modernization component includes three subcomponents: (i)
strengthening of the investment planning and evaluation capacities of the Secretaria General
de Planificaci6n (SGP); (ii) restructuring and strengthening central government agencies to
improve their management capacities and performance; and (iii) coordination of all training
included in the entire project.
72. Subcomponent 1: Strengthening of the Planning Framework (SGP). As a
complement to the Public Financial Management and Control component's activities to
strengthen the relationship between budgeting and planning functions, the Public Sector
Modernization component includes a subcomponent to strengthen the analytic and
institutional capacities of SGP to carry out its investment planning function. Thus, while the
previous component will clarify and strengthen the framework within which the investment
planning function feeds into the budget function, this component will strengthen SGP's
technical capacities. This will be accomplished via a twinning arrangement in which SGP
will avail itself of the experience and expertise of Chile's Ministry of Planning
(MIDEPLAN).



28                         Technical Annex
73. Subcomponent 2: Restructuring and Management Strengthening This subcomponent
consists in three clusters of activities: (a) developing a national decentralization plan; (b)
undertaking a public employee census; and (c) restructuring public entities.
74. A national decentralization plan will be developed through the hiring of consultants to
advise the Government and assist in the drafting of new decentralization policies and required
legal instruments. This work will build on the decentralization policy identified at an earlier
stage in the project under Component 3.
75. A quadrennial comprehensive public employment census will be undertaken to
complement the central government personnel monitoring capacities being strengthened under
the Public Financial Management and Control Component of this project.
76. Restructuring of public entities will be accomplished via six interrelated sets of activities:
(i) strengthening SENDA's capacity to oversee and guide the restructuring process as
described above; (ii) designing the overall strategy for restructuring and management
strengthening along the lines described below; (iii) establishing the restructuring norms to
govern the negotiation of Institutional Restructuring Agreements along the lines described
below; (iv) updating the legal framework so that it is consistent with the enhanced
restructuring and management strengthening strategy described below; (v) implementing
public entity restructurings by (a) providing technical assistance to public entities to enable
them to prepare detailed restructuring proposals, and (b) providing financing and technical
assistance to public entities to enable them to execute those restructuring agreements that
have been approved by CONAM, in coordination with SENDA; and (vi) monitoring and
evaluating the restructuring process. A detailed explanation of this restructuring strategy
may be found in Attachment 1. In addition, Table 4 provides a summary of the anticipated
implementation costs per restructuring entity for prototype public entities (small, medium and
large).
Table 4: Projected Entity Reorganization Consultant Resource Requirements
Entity Size    Consultant Months  Total Number of   Total Projected
per Entity      Entities Expected    Consultant
to Reorganize        Months
Small              30.0                 14               420
Medium              39.2                 13                509
Large              50.7                 7                 355



29                          Technical Annex
77. Subcomponent 3: Coordination of Public Sector Training To meet the requirements
of the Modernization of the State initiative in Ecuador a training framework appropriate to
the proposed technical assistance has been developed targeted to key offices in the central
government. A comprehensive training plan would be implemented under the Modernization
of the State Technical Assistance project as follows: Component I, Public Financial
Management and Control, will focus on all aspects of budgetary preparation, planning, public
investment and credit, treasury and accounting, audit of public resources, and public
contracting. Component II, Public Sector Modernization, involves training personnel within
SGP in modern planning methodologies, monitoring and evaluation techniques, and
strengthening the coordination of public sector training. Under the concept of training the
trainers, all governmental personnel receiving training under the project would in turn
transfer their newly acquired knowledge to their respective departments and divisions in the
central government for replication in existing training programs.
78. The training prepared will require effective coordination by SENDA with the objective
of avoiding duplication and promoting the institutionalization of training activities within the
respective training units involved in the project.
79. Public Financial Management and Control Component: The Budget System. (a)
Objective: Training under the project is intended to increase the analytical capacity to
interpret the budgetary process; develop the capacity to formulate budgetary policies; provide
the framework for developing implementation strategies to apply the new Budget Law. (b)
Capacity Gap. Staff within the Budgeting Office lack the necessary information and skills to
carry out the new Budget Law. Moreover, there has been a dramatic attrition of staff that
contributes to the need for a timely and efficient development of the capacity to fulfill the
key role envisaged under the new Budget Law for the Secretariat of the Budget and the
respective offices. (c) Training and Phasing: Training would be provided in pedagogical
techniques to transmit the necessary knowledge envisaged for the curriculum. Students would
be selected according to level of responsibility for overseeing expenditure flows, compiling
information, operational personnel, advisors, and other professional staff.
80. Public Financial Management and Control Component: Control. Objective: To strengthen
the ability of CGE to carry out its accounting and auditing responsibilities within the
framework of the new Budget Law and the MOS initiative. Capacity Gap: There is a need
to strengthen concurrent, posterior, and management control, as well as to implement the
intended move away from all prior control activities by the CGE. There are also
fundamental changes contemplated in government auditing and public sector contracting that
will require intensive training, as reflected in the new Public Contracting Law. Training and
Phasing: The Training School within Contraloria will be strengthened to provide required
updating of auditing and accounting skills as well as to provide instruction on the
implications of legal changes that affect the way Contraloria carries out its mandate within
the MOS program.



30                          Technical Annex
81. Public Financial Management and Control Component: Informatics Subcomponent:
Objective. To set up a bridging system to implement the Budget Law and to facilitate other
aspects of the MOS program. Capacity Gap. Currently, there is no information network for
providing the necessary flow of budgetary and planning information required for the timely
and effective implementation of national economic policies and programs. Training and
Phasing: The informatics training program is scheduled for the five project years. It will be
implemented in stages and focus on training users in financial systems applications. It is
included for all components under the project.
82. Public Sector Modernization Component - Strengthening of the Planning Framework.
Objective. To strengthen the capacity of the Planning Office (SGP) in technical, strategic and
management planning to support the objectives of the Modernization of the State relative to
the implementation of the Ley de Presupuestos. Capacity Gap. The critical mass of experts
in SGP has been cut in half as a consequence of attrition and poorly handled downsizing.
Currently, there is a lack of capacity to provide an adequate national planning framework in
terms of macro programming, evaluating and scheduling of public investments, and
evaluation of planning proposal. Training and Phasing: The target population for this
training would be managers and professionals in SGP responsible for all aspects of national
planning as well as technical personnel, including: (a) general sectoral specialists; (b)
planners; and (c) technical specialists in the planning and investment group. Initially,
training would take the form of a twinning arrangement with MIDEPLAN of Chile. Trainers
would then be trained to implement the knowledge gained from this experience. SGP staff in
Quito and selected municipalities would be the beneficiaries. Candidates would be selected
based on their area of specialization and formal preparation for their assignments. Sectoral
specialist training would be carried out by external consultants in the areas of educational
infrastructure, health, physical infrastructure, public works engineers, etc.
83. Public Sector Modernization Component - Restructuring and Management Strengthening.
Objective: To strengthen SENDA in its efforts to carry out its public sector rationalization
responsibilities and to coordinate public sector training, especially that directed toward the
objective of the Modernization of the State. Capacity Gap: Currently there is a lack of
norms for SENDA to carry out its mandate under the MOS initiative for the reorganization
and decentralization of the public sector. Moreover, there is an absence of standard
administrative operating procedures, which falls within SENDA's responsibility.
Additionally, there is a need to promulgate information about SENDA's legal mandate under
MOS. Many training courses are conducted throughout the public sector without coordination
between entities and agencies and with ensuing duplication and no way to gauge their
effectiveness. SENDA confronts numerous constraints that will need to be addressed before it
can fulfill its role as coordinator of public sector training. Moreover, facilities and
equipment are generally inadequate to carry out training effectively in most public agencies.
Training and Pha.ving. Training would take place over five years.
84. Coordination of the Reform Program Component - Project Coordinating Unit: Objective:
To strengthen the coordinating unit within CONAM to facilitate project implementation and



31                          Technical Annex
supervision. Capacity Gap. The liaison between the project unit in CONAM has been
considerably improved by the appointment of an executive director and president of the
Commission. However, the link between the technical coordinators and their respective
agencies' training activities can be improved by providing technical support. Training and
Phasing: Training would occur in the first year of the project.
Component III: Coordination of the Reform Program
85. Objectives: The specific objectives of this component would be to ensure sustainability,
efficiency and transparency in the carrying out of the public sector reform activities
supported by the project. These objectives would be achieved through five subcomponents:
(i) definition of the role of the state; (ii) decentralization policy; (iii) dissemination; (iv)
project accounts and audit; and (v) project management.
86. Subcomponent 1: Definition of the Role of the State The Government's
modernization efforts entail a profound reorientation for the role of the state from one based
on large scale intervention in the markets to a model that relies on the private sector as the
main actor in the pursuit of social and economic development, to be achieved through
privatization of public enterprises and deregulation. But this also requires a redefinition of
the residual role of the state in society and to make the state more effective and efficient in
performing that subsidiary role. To address these concerns, the project would include
resources to support the following activities:
(a) an analysis of relevant pieces of legislation on Modernization of the State and any
other existing legislation related to macro-institutional policy to determine their
internal congruence and consistency with modem public management needs and, the
consequent formulation of a draft macro-institutional policy consistent with the
desired new role of the state that emerges from that analysis, and the stated
objectives of the Government's program;
(b) a development of a system of popular consultation on the measures and objectives of
the draft macro-institutional policy reflecting revised role of the state, including a
forum witlh the participation of prominent citizens reflecting diverse segments of
Ecuadoran society, such as the Foro de la Ciudadania, as well as gathering other
ideas and suggestions on the subject; and
(c) the reformulation of the draft macro-institutional policy on the basis of these
comments and suggestions for formal sanction of the new role and nature of the state
sought and the policy and institutional reforms and legislative measures to be
followed to attain it.
87. Subcomponent 2: Decentralization Policy One of the three main pillars of the MOS
initiative is the decentralization of the public sector. At present, local government in
Ecuador, besides being inadequately financed and staffed to meet the needs of the populations



32                          Technical Annex
they are to serve, is fragmented with layer upon layer of levels of organizational
responsibility. Despite the abundance of agencies at the central and local levels, financial
resources allotted to the local level are inadequate and local participation in decision-making
in their allocation is very limited. Furthermore, in the last forty years many new
municipalities and provinces have been created. As a result of the prevailing fragmentation,
it is estimated that 77.5 per cent of the municipalities do not meet the minimum population
requirement established in the Municipal Law. In summary, the resulting situation is one of
inadequate institutional capability at the local level, fragmentation of efforts, functional
superposition and lack of inter-sectoral coordination.
88. The proposed loan would support CONAM in formulating a decentralization policy to
address these issues through the provision of technical assistance for the following activities:
(a) an analysis of the various existing legislative decentralization proposals and any
relevant studies on decentralization and regionalization, including consultations with
provincial and municipal authorities to elicit their views on current problems related
to decentralization and suggestions for their solutions leading to the formulation of a
draft decentralization policy consistent with the desired new role of the state;
(b) a workshop including national and international experts in decentralization to discuss
the draft policy in light of lessons from the experience of other countries that have
undertaken decentralization efforts;
(c) a revision of the draft decentralization policy on the basis of these comments and
suggestions for final sanction by the Government.
89. Subcomponent 3: Dissemination The Government relies on public support for the
success of its reform efforts. To gain such support, it is important that the public at large
understand ex-ante the objectives and expected benefits to be gained from the carrying out of
its modernization program. The project includes a dissemination and public relations
program aimed at explaining in detail the specific administrative and legislative initiatives to
be supported by the proposed loan.
90. Subcomponent 4: Project Accounts and Audit Although the project would include
support for strengthening and redefining the role of the CGE, consistent with CGE's new
role, it is expected that the project accounts would be audited by private external auditors on
an annual basis. The proposed loan would finance the cost of hiring these external auditors
during project execution.
91. Subcomponent 5: Project Management Overall project management and coordination
would be the responsibility of CONAM, based on its mandate under the MOS Law. A
Project Working Group, comprising one agency coordinator from each of the agencies
responsible for implementation of specific activities--MFCP, SENDA, SGP, CGE and BCE
would be chaired by the Technical Coordinator for the Project in CONAM and would be
responsible for coordinating day-to-day project implementation and monitoring. Each
Agencv Coordinator would be appointed by the head of the respective agency. Project



33                         Technical Annex
administration would be carried out by a small group headed by the Administrative
Coordinator in CONAM. Policy decisions would be made by the Executive Director of
CONAM, who is appointed by the President.
92. The Coordination of the Reform Program Component of the proposed loan would
finance:
(a) project management and coordination, covering the remuneration the Technical
Coordinator and the members of the Working Group, including the Administrative
and Informatics Coordinators;
(b) administrative support for the project, covering clerical, secretarial and other
operating expenses of the project office;
(c) equipment for project management, including office equipment, computers and
software required by the project's administrative unit in CONAM and by the Agency
Coordinators in their respective agencies;
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization and Implementation.
93. Overall responsibility for project coordination and execution rests with CONAM, and
will be undertaken primarily by the Project Working Group. Because of the variety of
entities benefiting from the project, responsibility for executing each subcomponent will rest
with a specific core executing agency. In addition, within subcomponents, subsets of
activities may require actions by other entities. Final responsibility for seeing that those
activities are properly executed will rest with the core executing agency responsible for the
subcomponent, who will coordinate the activities of any subsidiary entities involved in
execution of that subcomponent. The following "Project Implementation Responsibilities"
table identifies the assignment of primary responsibility to core executing agencies by
subcomponent of the project. That table also identifies the additional entities whose activities
within each subcomponent will be coordinated by the core executing agency responsible for
that subcomponent.
94. A Project Administrative Manual in the Project Files provides guidelines for all
administrative aspects of project implementation.
95. Regular reporting of project performance would be essential to assure timely
implementation. Given the extent of proposed institutional changes, the scope of inter-related
project activities, and the number of ministries and agencies involved in the implementation
and execution of the Project, active monitoring would be crucial and is planned.



34                                      Technical Annex
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
. PRESIDlEY
CONEJO NACIOlM  DE            HINISTh  DE FINNA  (NFC)
NODERNIZACION DEL            SECTARIO Di PIAIFICA1CIO  (SG?)
ESTADO (COWAN)              SECRETARIO NACIORL DI DE;R0LLO
PRESIDECIA    CUnTlV            ADHI1ISTRATIU  (SMA)
RERSIfATET DR T       ADMAAWE
REPRESIITANTE DE IA IGLESIA
.ERSNTI DE S.    DI IA PRODM0 ION
NINISTHIC DI                   DIRECCION  EJCIVA
FIAWS Y  EDITO   ...........              DEL
PIJILICO                           COW
in   Dl COODIWIOCN1 DEL PROYECTO
(NOSTA)                  COORDINACION
MIICA DEL
PROYECTO (HOSTA)
COtISION                     D
C00R1111C1011                                                               DE               '  {
WINSN IV                                                                  I 1 111011tICA   |   'D
DiJPO DE
||||ITOR |E       I
COOBINNI       CMRDINADOR             COORDIWADR            COORDINADOR          REFREThTANT



35                                Technical Annex
Project Implementation Responsibilities
Primary                 Secondary Responsibility
COMPONENT/Subcomponent              Responsibill
ty
A. PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND
CONTROL
1. Budget System                    MFCP
a. Medium term budget system                  CONAM, SGP, BCE
b. Integrated budget system                   CONAM, SGP, BCE, CGE
c. Budget execution                           CONAM, BCE
d. Program of control and                     CONAM, SGP, BCE, SENDA, CGE, Line Ministries,
evaluation                                        PYM, EP, MEyEP
2. Public Credit System/Debt         MFCP       CONAM, BCE
Management
3. Government Accounting and      MFCP/CGE   CONAM, BCE, SENDA, Line Ministries
Treasury
4. Audit of Public Resources         CGE        CONAM, MFCP
5. Public Contracting                CGE        CONAM
6. Payroll and Personnel System     SENDA       CONAM, MFCP, BCE
7. Information Systems               PWG        CONAM, SGP, BCE, CGE, SENDA, Line Ministries,
EMETEL
B. PUBLIC SECTOR
MODERNIZATION
1. Strengthening of the Planning     SGP        CONAM, BCE, CGE, SENDA, MFCP
Framework
2. Restructuring and Management Strengthening
a. Decentralization of          SGP/SEND    CONAM
management                               A
b. Public employee census         SENDA       CONAM
c. Restructuring of public entities
i. Establishing restructuring
framework
(a) Restructuring and admin.   CONAM/SE   MFCP
strengthening                          NDA



36                                Technical Annex
(b) Updating legal             PWG        CONAM, SGP, CGE
framework
ii. Implementation of         CONAM/SE   MFCP, Line Ministries
restructuring program                  NDA
3. Coordination of Training         SENDA       CONAM, SGP, CGE, MFCP, PWG
C. COORDINATION OF
REFORM PROGRAM
1. Definition of the Role of the   CONAM        PWG
State
2. Decentralization Policy            SGP       CONAM, SENDA, PWG
3. Dissemination                    CONAM       SGP, CGE, MFCP, SENDA
4. Project Accounts and Audits       PWG        CONAM
5. Project Management                PWG        CONAM



37                         Technical Annex
96. The Project Administrative Unit in CONAM will be responsible for the preparation of
two key instruments: (i) an Annual Operating Plan; and (ii) the Ouarterly Progress Reports.
The Annual Operating Plan would be a time slice of the Project Implementation Plan,
together with relevant physical and financial indicators, presented on an annual basis.
97. The Quarterly Reports will focus on evaluation of progress made against the Annual
Operating Plan, on measurement of project performance and impacts, and other issues related
to project administration, organization and management. Suggested outline of the report is
summarized as follows:
Parts I-IV, with the exception of the Attachments 1-3, are inclusive for Quarterly Reports
due end of January, April, July and October to the Bank.
Part I Overall summary
A. General status
1. Major recent developments
2. Adherence to annual Operating Plan
3. Development impact to date
B. Project administration
1. Fund flows (including counter-part funding)
2. Disbursements
3. Procurement
4. Financial reporting (accounts and audits)
5. Technical assistance
6. Studies
7. Training
8. SIGEF implementation
9. Restructuring
C. Organization and Management
1. Staffing of Project Administrative Unit in CONAM
2. Effectiveness of coordination among project agencies and entities
Attachments 1-3 are to be included only with the January and July version of the Quarterly
Reports:
Attachment 1.  Summary of proposed actions/recommendations agreed for next review
Attachment 2.  Summary of actions proposed and issues unresolved from last report
Attachment 3.  More detailed subcomponent by subcomponent discussion of status,
problems and next steps
Part II Table 1 on physical indicators - would provide quantitative indicators of project
implementation by component and subcomponent, e.g., percent completion.



38                         Technical Annex
Part III Table 2 on financial indicators - would provide a summary of funds released by
financiers; counter-part fund availability; procurement status by method;
disbursements by category and estimated future disbursements.
Part IV Table 3 on compliance with legal covenants (to date) with cross references to legal
documents (Loan Agreement, Participation Arrangements, Restructuring
Agreements, etc.).
98. All project implementation agencies would submit quarterly (status as of end of March,
June, September and December) progress reports to the Project Administrative Unit in
CONAM in accordance to a standardized format acceptable to the Bank. The Project
Administrative Unit would consolidate these reports and forward a consolidated report to the
Bank a month after the end of the quarter. The December 31 version of the Report, to be
submitted at the end of January, would include a proposed Annual Operating Plan for the
following calendar year, to be discussed with the Supervision mission to be scheduled around
end-January or early February.
99. Mid-term Review. A project Mid-term Review is tentatively scheduled for November
30, 1996 to provide a major review of the progress made and to allow a forum to identify
and discuss any required adjustments and revisions to the Project.
Procurement.
100.   Procurement actions will be undertaken in accord with the norms specified in the
Memorandum of the President (Report No. P-6452-EC).
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits.
101.   Disbursements, maintenance of project accounts and project audits will be
undertaken in accord with the norms specified in the Memorandum of the President (Report
No. P-6452-EC), the Project Administrative Manual and the Project Plan of Accounts.
Supervision Plan.
102.   Given the institutional complexity of this project, its interrelated nature, and the
need to ensure compliance with time schedules for each individual sub-component, and the
large number of small consultant contracts and training events, project supervision will
require the allocation of significant resources, especially in its early years of implementation.
The acquisition of the integrated information system, also concentrated in the first year of
project execution, will also require intensive supervision to ensure a smooth procurement
process. The high supervision inputs presented below provide high allocations during the
initial years to ensure a smooth and efficient start to project execution, and also in FY97 to
ensure a smooth adjustment due to the political transition period expected in Ecuador.



39                          Technical Annex
103.   IBRD Supervision Input. Bank staff or consultant supervision inputs are expected to
range from 36 staff weeks per year for the first two years of project execution to 22 staff
weeks per year during the latter years, as per the following tasks:
(a) General Portfolio Management Operations: Review of routine procurement and
consultant contracting documents, progress reports, correspondence, restructuring
agreements, participation agreements, etc. and the internal requirements to process
these requests are expected to require about 12 staff weeks during the initial two
years of project execution, declining to about 6 staff weeks during the latter years.
(b) Informatics System Procurement: Review of the informatics plan, procurement
documentation for acquisition of the informatics system, and subsequent monitoring
of system installation etc. is expected to require about 6 staff weeks in the first year
of project execution, declining to about 2 staff weeks thereafter.
(c) Mid-Term Review: The Mid-Term Review, scheduled for FY1997 would require 8
weeks (including time for preparation, implementation and follow-up to the review
by a project team).
(d) Supervision Missions. Approximately two supervision missions would be necessary
annually. Each mission would be on average for a period of two weeks, and would
be comprised of the task manager and about three or four other specialists (possibly
consultants). Supervision missions, including time for preparation and follow-up,
are expected to require about 20 staff weeks during the first year of the project,
declining to about 14 staff weeks thereafter. A proposed schedule for supervision
missions is provided below.



40                          Technical Annex
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FIELD SUPERVISION PLAN
FY1995:
Initial Supervision Mission/Project Launch
Task Manager
Budget and Planning Specialist
Public Sector Reform Specialist
Information Systems Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Training Specialist
FY1996-99:
Regular Supervision Missions - scheduled twice yearly, one of them comprising
specialists in all project areas:
Task Manager
Representatives of the following specialties, depending upon need:
Budget and Planning
Accounting and Auditing
Public Sector Reform
Information Systems
Procurement
Training and Institutional Development
Monitoring, Evaluation and Costing
FY1997:
Mid-Term Review
Task Manager
Representatives of the specialties listed above
FY2000:
Project Completion Report Preparation Mission
Task Manager
Monitoring, Evaluation and Costing Specialist



41                          Technical Annex
The supervision requirements by IBRD fiscal year are:
1995      1996      1997        1998       1999
General Portfolio          8         12         10          6          6
Management Operations                                                        l
Informatics System         6         6          2           2          2
Mid-Term Review                                 8                            l
Supervision Missions       10        20         14         14          14
TOTAL SWKs                 24        38         34         22         22






TECHNICAL ANNEX
(Attachment)
ECUADOR
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT






Government of Ecuador
Institutional Restructuring Guidelines
November 18, 1994






Institutional Restructuring Guidelines
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
L MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE POLICY ............................................................S
IL FUNDAMENTAL OBJECTIVES ...........................................................6 
A. ADMINIsTRAnvE OBJECTIVE .........................................................                                                                                       7
B. HuMAN RESouRCES OBJECTIVES .........................................................                                                                                     7
C. FINANCING OBJECTIVES .........................................................                                                                                          7
I  STRATEGY ............................................................ 
A. CONTEXr .........................................................                                                                                                       8
B. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY .........................................................                                                                                        8
1. Planning  and Execution  of Convenio  de Reestructuraci6n  Institucional (CRI) ............................................... 9
2. Norms ...........................................................                                                                                                 10
a) Budget Agremement between CONAM  and MFCP ................................................................ 10
b) Convenio de Reestructuracin  lnstitucional ................................................................. 10
c) Reclassification ................................................................11
d) Valuation and sale of unproductive assets ................................................................ 12
C. FINANCING RESTRUCTURINGS AND THEIR IMPACTS ......................................................... 12
1. Assumptions ............................................................ 14
2. Projected Implications of the Restructuring  Process ...........................................................                                                  15
3. Key Aspects of the Model ........................................................... 15
IV. CONCLUSIONS ...........................................................                                                                                               16
ATTACHMENTS
1. Restructuring Projections by Semester
2. Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model






Executive Summary
Institutional Restructuring Guidelines
1.    Objective (Meta)
The objective of the restructuring process is to reduce the costs and enhance the
performance of public entities within the Central Government of Ecuador by rewarding individual
public entities that reduce unnecessary personnel on a selective basis with enhanced salaries,
greater direct control over the execution of their budget decisions, and strengthened capacity to
plan and manage their own resources, in exchange for their providing greater financial and service
delivery accountability, reducing personnel costs by discharging unnecessary personnel, divesting
unproductive assets and undertaking steps to ensure that these changes are sustained beyond the
life of the restructuring process.
The process is designed to ensure both fiscal savings to the Government and enhanced
management capacities within public entities that successfully pass through the restructuring
process. This process encompasses the following specific objectives:
1. Administrative Objective
* By the end of the current Government, the 14 Central Government's Ministries, and
some of the administratively dependent agencies, will have restructured under this
program and, by achieving this, their personnel will be governed by the revised salary
scale.
2. Human Resources Objectives
*  Achieve a net reduction in Central Government employment by August of 1996 of
approximately 20,000 public servants, of those currently working, representing an
overall reduction since August of 1992 of 14%.
*  Dedicate up to a maximum of 80% of the salary savings achieved through employment
reductions within any given restructured entity to enhancement of the salaries of the
remaining employees within that entity.
3. Financing Objectives
*  Achieve a fiscal dividend for the Treasury of at least 20% of the cost savings achieved
through personnel reductions
*  Each public entity undertaking a sanctioned restructuring will self-finance a portion of
the severance payment liabilities incurred by its employment reductions, which
percentage will be negotiated between that entity and the Ministry of Finance as part



2
of the Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Convenio de Reestructuraci6n
Institucional (CRI)) required by that process. These public entities will accomplish
this self-financing through the divestment of assets and through cost-savings achieved
through the employment reductions they attain.
* Each public entity undertaking a sanctioned restructuring will self-finance the salary
enhancements for its post-restructuring employees from the personnel cost-savings
achieved through its employment reductions. The magnitude of the salary
enhancement costs plus the self-financing of severance payment liabilities from
personnel cost-savings shall not exceed 80% of the personnel cost-savings achieved
through the individual public entity's employment reductions. These percentages will
be defined, in each case, jointly by the entity and CONAM previous to the signing the
CRI.
I.    Strategy
The restructuring process will include two basic elements:
A.    Planning and Execution of Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI)
1.    Process to access to a CRI
Step 1: Preparation of a the restructuring proposal
* The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFCP) budget allocation unit will determine the
proceeds that will be assigned to finance the Institutional Restructuring Program, with the
indication of the amount to which periodically may be available to and will be used in the
benefit of the entities identified by CONAM. For this purpose an agreement will be signed by
WCP and CONAM.
* Public entity develops a detailed proposal for its participation in a Convenio de
Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI), on the basis of the Institutional Restructuring guidelines
preestablished by SENDA. This proposal must include a Restructuring Financial Plan (REP).
The proposal is reviewed by SENDA and if it meets the requisites, it is approved by CONAM.
* CONAM signs the CRI with the entity.
*  The Sistema Integrado de Gestion Financiera (SIGEF) shall maintain through its subsystem of
budgetary execution the information related to the budgetary assignments done. The
Modernization Computerized Monitoring System, through the information that it receives
from the entities will register the grade of advance or delay within the process.
Step 2: Implementation of a CRI
* Public entity implements its CRI once approved.
* Implementation of the administrative aspects of the CRI is monitored and technical assistance
is provided to the restructuring entity by SENDA, in accord with the RSG.
* MFCP reviews reclassification and its attendant salary changes.



3
* Once reclassification is approved by MFCP, new salary scale is applied to reclassified
positions.
2.a.   Reclassification
*  For a proposed reclassification to be approved by the Government, it must both be consistent
with the post-restructuring employment requirements identified in the CRI and provide the
Government with a sustainable fiscal dividend equal to no less than 20% of the savings
achieved through employment reductions.
*  The remaining cost savings achieved through employment reductions shall qualify the
restructured entity for salary enhancement for its post-restructuring employees and for self-
financing of the severance payment liabilities incurred through the employment reduction
instruments.
2.b.   Valuation and sale of unproductive assets
*  Each public entity undergoing a restructuring, shall identify their unproductive assets and
obtain fair market value appraisals. Should such an entity hire or contract a specialized firm to
obtain the appraisals, this hiring/contracting will be the responsibility of that entity.
*  The sale process of the unproductive assets will be subject to the general dispositions of the
Modernization of the State Law and its General Regulations for the sale of unproductive
assets.
*  The proceeds from the divestment of assets, independently from when it occurs, will be
credited by the entity in the Account of the T4reasury of the Government of the Republic of
Ecuador, in all the correspondent cases of Central Government.
B.    Financing of Restructurings and Their Impacts
It is estimated that the severance payment liabilities that will be incurred through the
voluntary retirement of 20,000 additional public employees during the restructuring process
mandated by the Modernization of the State Law will total approximately US$195.5 million in
present value terms. This estimate illustrates the need to establish a strategy and detailed
financing plan for the restructuring process to ensure that adequate financing will exist to liquidate
these liabilities. The magnitude of this anticipated liability underscores, in addition, the
impossibility of financing these costs without recourse to fiscal instruments, such as bonds or
loans, that create multiyear budgetary obligations. This is one of the key objectives of the
Restructuring Financing Plan within the CRI proposed in this document. In short, the agreements
reached in these Financing Plans will create budgetary obligations, not only for the years in which
severance payment liabilities are incurred, but also over the entire time period required to finance
those liabilities, which period will be specified in the Financing Plan.
The body of this document presents a simulation model developed to facilitate the
preparation of Restructuring Financing Plans for individual public entities proposing to restructure
under a CRI. This document presents and explains the results of applying this simulation model



4
with data reflecting the overall personnel reductions and salary increments which the Central
Govermnent expects to attain through the Restructuring Program through August of 1996.
This simulation model, consistent with the strategy proposed in this document, anticipates
self-financing on the part of the individual public entities undergoing restructuring of
approximately 55% of the severance payment liabilities, as well as of salary enhancements of
approximately 75% of the personnel expenditure savings expected to be achieved through
employment reductions. These simulations project a fiscal dividend to the Treasury from this
restructuring process with a net present value of approximately US$81.4 million, less roughly
US$25.0 million in costs anticipated to implement the Modernization of the State program.



5
Institutional Restructuring Guidelines
1.    Modernization of the State Policy
Since the beginning of the Duran-Ballen Administration, in August of 1992, its policy has
aimed at macroeconomic stability and reorganization and enhanced efficiency of the public sector.
These improvements have been viewed as prerequisites for sustained economic growth and a
more equitable distribution of resources, especially for the most disadvantaged elements of the
population.
These objectives are incorporated in a process of modernization of the State, which seeks
a thoroughgoing transformation of the organization, interrelation and function of the Public
Administration. The strategy to achieve these ends includes a dramatic change relative to the
policies in force during the 1970's and 1980's. The new strategy is based on the promotion of
and interaction with the private sector in a competitive environment, jointly with State actions to
facilitate development and to promote private sector activities.
This transformation is expected to result from an appropriate redefinition of the size and
role of the State, with the objective of achieving a smaller but stronger public administration,
capable and governable, sustained on the pillars of efficiency, rationality and administrative
decentralization, in order to achieve effective management, as well as timely allocation and
efficient utilization of public resources.
Since the beginning of the Administration of President Sixto Duran-Ballen, the
Government has undertaken a number of steps to establish a solid basis upon which to achieve a
fundamental reorganization of Ecuador's public administration. Among the more important of
these achievements are the following:
* Definition of the legal framework for the modernization of the State, through
enactment of the Modernization of the State, Privatization and Provision of Public
Services Law (LMOS: R.O. N 349 of 31 December 1993), its General Regulation
(R.O. N 411 of 31 March 1994), and the Public Budgets Law (Law N 18,
Supplement of the R.O. N 76, of 30 November 1992).
* Rationalization of the structure of four Central Government entities, each of which has
been incorporated in the new salary scale.
* Issuance of preliminary policy guidelines for the reclassification of salaries and their
grades within the salary scale, which require as preconditions for access to those
enhanced salaries: reductions in personnel in the qualifying public entities; that salary
increases so occasioned result in personnel cost increases that are less than the
personnel cost savings achieved by personnel reductions; enhancements in



6
administrative efficiency; and the divestment of unproductive assets equal in value to
at least three times the personnel cost increases due to salary enhancement.
* A reduction of 3 1,000 public employees between August 9, 1992 and September
1994, which represents an 8.5% reduction relative to the August 1992 level of
365,000 public employees.
* Emission of a Ministerial Accord by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit on
January 13, 1994, which various grades and basic salaries in the Public Employees
Salary Scale, foliowed by a Resolution of the Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo
Administrativo (SENDA) of January 27 of that same year, which eliminated a number
of categories of positions from the Occupational Index incorporated in the Public
Employees Basic Salary Scale. These changes have significantly improved the salary
scale, although more improvements are still needed, as is a more systematic set of
norms to govern such changes.
* The Government has developed a preliminary draft of the Institutional Restructuring
Agreement (Convenio de Reestrucuraci6n Institucional (CRI)).
Legal Framework                           . Modernization of the State Law and Regulation
. Public Budgets Law
Organizational Structure                  . 4 public entities have been restructured and 36
are in the process of restructuring
.Ministerial Accord to put into effect a new
salary scale
Personnel reductions                      . 31,000 public employees have departed to date,
_       ~~~representing 8.5% of the August 1992 total
11.    Fundamental Objectives
The basic objectives of the restructuring process are to reduce the costs and enhance the
performance of public entities within the Central Government of Ecuador by rewarding individual
public entities on a selective basis with enhanced salaries, greater direct control over the execution
of their budget decisions, and strengthened capacity to plan and manage their own resources, in
exchange for their providing greater financial and service delivery accountability, reducing
personnel costs by discharging unnecessary personnel, divesting unproductive assets and
undertaking steps to ensure that these changes are sustained beyond the life of the restructuring
process.
The process is designed to ensure both fiscal savings to the Government and enhanced
management capacities within public entities that successfully pass through the restructuring
process. This process encompasses the following specific objectives:



7
A.   Administrative Objective
The principal objective of the administrative rationalization is to optimize the utilization of
human, financial, material and technological resources in order to effectively and in a timely
manner meet the demands for the public services provided by the Central Government:
* By the end of the current Government, the 14 Central Government's Ministries, and
some of the administratively dependent agencies, will have restructured under this
program and, by achieving this, their personnel will be governed by the revised salary
scale.
B.    Human Resources Objectives
* Achieve a net reduction in Central Government employment by August of 1996 of
approximately 20,000 public servants, of those currently working, representing an
overall reduction since August of 1992 of 14%.
* Dedicate up to a maximum of 80% of the salary savings achieved through employment
reductions within any given restructured entity to enhancement of the salaries of the
remaining employees within that entity.
C.    Financing Objectives
To ensure both that restructuring entities face adequate incentives to restructure and that
the restructuring process will be fiscally viable, the Restructuring Program requires that each
public entity undertaking to restructure must self-finance a significant portion of the costs
incurred through that process and provide a fiscal dividend to the Treasury. Costs to be
financed include severance payments and subsequent salary enhancements. These shall be
self-financed through divestment of assets and personnel expenditure reductions achieved
through employment reductions. To this end, the following specific financing objectives are
set:
* Achieve a fiscal dividend for the Treasury of at least 20% of the cost savings achieved
through personnel reductions
* Each public entity undertaking a sanctioned restructuring will self-finance a portion of
the severance payment liabilities incurred by its employment reductions, which
percentage will be negotiated between that entity and the Ministry of Finance as part
of the Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Convenio de Reestructuraci6n
Institucional (CRI)) required by that process. These public entities will accomplish
this self-financing through the divestment of assets and through cost-savings achieved
through the employment reductions they attain.



8
* Each public entity undertaking a sanctioned restructuring will self-finance the salary
enhancements for its post-restructuring employees from the personnel cost-savings
achieved through its employment reductions. The magnitude of the salary
enhancement costs plus the self-financing of severance payment liabilities from
personnel cost-savings shall not exceed 80% of the personnel cost-savings achieved
through the individual public entity's employment reductions. These percentages will
be defined, in each case, jointly by the entity and CONAM previous to the signing the
CRI.
These percentages will be defined, in each case, jointly between the entity and CONAM,
prior to signing the CRI.
111.   Strategy
A.    Context
The administrative restructuring process will be administered by the Secretaria Nacional de
Desarrollo Administrativo (SENDA). All activities within this Restructuring Program will be in accord
with the policies and guidelines established by the Consejo Nacional de Modernizaci6n del Estado
(CONAM), consistent with the strategies and actions for decentralization developed by the Secretaria
General de Planificaci6n (SGP), in accord with financing requirements established for the Restructuring
Program and established by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFCP), and consistent with the
public financial controls established by the Contraloria General del Estado (CGE). Accordingly, the
restructuring process will be an integrated process that is consistent with all core Central Government
financial and management policies and practices.
B.    Implementation Strategy
To implement this process, a Committee for Development and Technology will be designated
for each restructuring entity. This Committee will be comprised by a top level official, designated by
the head of the restructuring entity, the entity's Director of Planning, Director of Human Resources
and one other official whose functions are related to the reorganization of the entity.
In order to undertake an administrative restructuring, a public entity must prepare and execute
an Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI)), subject
to the approval of CONAM, SENDA and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
The restructuring process will include two basic elements: planning and execution of
individual Institutional Restructuring Agreements (Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional --
or CRI) and financing of each public entity's restructuring.



9
RELACIONES FUNCIONALES PARA
LA REESTRUCTURACION
1 ~
1.    Planning and Execution of Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI)
Planning and execution of the CRIs will involve two steps:
Step 1: Preparation of a the restructuring proposal
T the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFCP) budget allocation unit will determine the
proceeds that will be assigned to finance the Institutional Restructuring Program, with the
indication of the amount to which periodically may be available to and will be used in the
benefit of the entities identified by CONAM. For this purpose an agreement will be signed by
MFCP and CONAM.
*  Public entity develops a detailed proposal for its participation in a Convenio de
Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI), on the basis of the Institutional Restructuring guidelines
preestablished by SENDA. This proposal must include a Restructuring Financial Plan (RFP).
The proposal is reviewed by SENDA and if it meets the requisites, it is approved by CONAM.
*  CONAM signs the CRI with the entity.
*  The Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera (SIGEF) shall maintain through its subsystem of
budgetary execution the information related to the budgetary assignments done. The
Modernization Computerized Monitoring System, through the information that it receives
from the entities will register the grade of advance or delay within the process.
Step 2: Implementation of a CRI
* Public entity implements its CRI once approved.



10
*  CONAM informs MFCP of the signing of a CRI and requires the allocation of the resources
necessary for execution of the CRI, which must include the Restructuring Financing Plan,
including its respective Amortization Program.
*  Implementation of the administrative aspects of the CRI is monitored and technical assistance
is provided to the restructuring entity by SENDA, in accord with the Institutional
Restructuring Guidelines.
*  Monitoring of implementation of each restructuring is accomplished via a SIGEF subsystem
for Monitoring of the Modernization Process.
c  NICP transfers the resources required for each CRI to a Special Account opened for the
purpose within the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE), which will be drawn upon only through
payment orders, to which must be attached a copy of the CRI. BCE transfers resources of the
Special Account to the Current Account of the institution being restructured. Only then will
the restructuring entity disburse the severance payments incurred.
*  Once SENDA approves a CRI, it issues the recommendations necessary for approval of the
reclassification proposal for the entity to MFCP, including an analysis of the fiscal impacts of
the proposed reclassification.
*  Once reclassification is approved by MCP, new salary scale is applied to reclassified
positions.
2.    Norms
Execution of these steps will be governed by the following norms:
a)    Budget Agreement between CONAM and MFCP
The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit will determine the budgetary resources to be
assigned to finance the institutional restructuring program, indicating the quantities that will
periodically be made available for the benefit of entities undertaking to restructure with the
approval of CONAM. CONAM and MFCP will sign an agreement to effect this arrangement.
b)    Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional
Each CRI will be based on a detailed analysis of the objectives, production processes,
required activities, and resource requirements of the public entity planning to restructure. That
analysis will be undertaken by said entity, with financial and technical assistance from SENDA,
which is expected to be financed under the Modernization of the State Technical Assistance
(MOSTA) project currently being prepared by the Government with the World Bank. That
detailed analysis will identify:
* Objectives of the entity, both fundamental and detailed.
* Activities and procedures required to meet these objectives, by objective.
*  Organizational structure best adapted to undertaking those activities.



11
* Resources required to undertake those activities -- both physical and human resources.
* Positions to be eliminated and positions to be created in order to meet the newly identified
human resource requirements.
* Financing strategy for achieving the required employment reductions under existing laws,
including projection and financing (including timing) of salary savings and severance payments
anticipated and their net present value.
* Inventory and valuation of assets, and identification of those assets considered to be
unproductive and to be divested as part of the restructuring process, including a projection of
the expected proceeds from those divestments by quarter.
* Fiscal dividends to be achieved by the restructuring.
* Means by which the performance of the entity in achieving its objectives can be assessed,
including the mechanisms by which the information required for this assessment will be
monitored, summarized and made available to the Government.
Satisfactory execution of a CRI will require:
* Compliance with the Ley de Presupuestos (cite its full title)
* Implementation of SIGEF in all executing units and compliance with SIGEF performance
standards satisfactory to CONAM.
* Implementation of IRM module of SIGEF and compliance with IRM reporting standards
satisfactory to CONAM.
* Implementation of the Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n de Personal (SIAP) and
compliance with SIAP performance standards satisfactory to SENDA.
*  Satisfaction of all targets set in the CRI, including but not limited to (a) employment
reductions, (b) net personnel expenditure reductions, (c) unproductive asset divestments and
(d) fiscal dividends.
3 Implementation of the performance monitoring mechanisms specified in the CRI and delivery
to CONAM of performance monitoring information that is, in the judgment of CONAM,
satisfactory to permit assessment of the performance of said entity.
c)    Reclassification
For a proposed reclassification to be approved by the Government, it must both be
consistent with the post-restructuring employment requirements identified in the CRI and provide
the Government with a sustainable fiscal dividend equal to no less than the amount agreed to in
the CRI. The remaining cost savings achieved through employment reductions shall qualify the
restructured entity for salary enhancement for its post-restructuring employees. For the purposes
of calculating both personnel cost savings achieved through employment reductions and salary
enhancements, all forms of personnel compensation must be included -- including, but not limited
to, base salaries, benefits, and all forms of salary supplements. The section below on "Financing
restructurings and their impacts" clarifies the mechanism by which these fiscal dividends and
salary enhancements will be monitored and enforced.



12
d)    Valuation and sale of unproductive assets
Each public entity undergoing a restructuring, shall identify their unproductive assets and
obtain fair market value appraisals. Should such an entity hire or contract a specialized firm to
obtain the appraisals, this hiring/contracting will be the responsibility of that entity.
The sale process of the unproductive assets will be subject to the general dispositions of
the Modernization of the State Law and its General Regulations for the sale of unproductive
assets.
The proceeds from the divestment of assets, independently from when it occurs, will be
credited by the entity in the Unified Account of the Treasury of the Government of the Republic
of Ecuador, in all the correspondent cases of Central Government.
Severance payment liabilities of any given restructuring entity in excess of its capacity to
finance those by divestment of assets shall be financed from that entity's personnel cost savings
achieved through employment reductions. Accounting for these financial flows will be
accomplished through the financing mechanism described below.
C.    Financing Restructurings and Their Impacts
It is estimated that the severance payment liabilities that will be incurred through the
voluntary retirement of 20,000 additional public employees during the restructuring process
mandated by the Modernization of the State Law will total approximately US$195.5 million in
present value terms. This estimate illustrates the need to establish a strategy and detailed
financing plan for the restructuring process to ensure that adequate financing will exist to liquidate
these liabilities. The magnitude of this anticipated liability underscores, in addition, the
impossibility of financing these costs without recourse to fiscal instruments, such as bonds or
loans, that create multiyear budgetary obligations. This is one of the key objectives of the
Restructuring Financing Plan within the CRI proposed in this document. In short, the agreements
reached in these Financing Plans will create budgetary obligations, not only for the years in which
severance payment liabilities are incurred, but also over the entire time period required to finance
those liabilities, which period will be specified in the Financing Plan.
This section explains and presents the results of a model developed to simulate and
project the financing of the employment reductions and salary enhancements the Government
anticipates achieving through the proposed Public Entity Restructuring Program until August of
1996. That model reflects the following costs and benefits:
Costs
* Voluntary departure severance payments (indemnizaciones)
* Salary enhancements



13
Benefits
* Salary savings
Administrative costs of undertaking the Public Entity Restructuring program, including
implementation of its co-requisite Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera (SIGEF), are not included
in these projections. Those administrative implementation costs are projected to reach approximately
US$25.0 million; a magnitude that does not alter the qualitative conclusions of the projected Net
Present Value of the proposed Public Entity Restructuring program.
This simulation model, consistent with the strategy proposed in this document, anticipates self-
financing on the part of the individual public entities undergoing restructuring of approxirnately 55% of
the severance payment liabilities, as well as of salary enhancements that will cover 75% of the
persomel expenditure savings expected to be achieved through employment reductions. These
simulations project a fiscal dividend to the Treasure from this restructuring process with a net present
value of approximately US$81.4 million, less roughly US$25.0 million in costs anticipated to be needed
to implement the Modernization of the State Program. Net of those implementation costs, the net
present value to the Treasury is US$56.4 million. The improved salary savings, coupled with the
improved management capacities to be achieved through:
* implementation of the new Ley de Presupuestos, including implementation of both the Sistema
Integrado de Gestion Financiera (SIGEF) and its affiliated Sistema de Pagos de Red Bancaria
(PRG), and
* management improvements to be effected through the restructuring process mandated by the
Ley de Modernizaci6n and to be implemented through this Public Entity Restructuring
Strategy,
promise to significantly enhance the quality of public services and the cost-effectiveness with
which those services are provided in Ecuador.



14
1.    Assumptions
A number of assumptions were required to make these benefit and cost projections. The
parameter assumptions employed, as well as the means by which their values will be determined
for each public entity entering into a Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI), may be
found in Attachment 1. These assumptions may be grouped into three broad categories:
1. Parameters established by the Public Entity Restructuring Strategy (PERS)
2. Parameters determined through the development and approval of each restructuring
entity's Convenio de Reestructuraci6n Institucional (CRI)
3. Exogenously determined parameters
Parameters to be established by the PERS include:
*  Percentage of salary savings to be devoted to self-financing of the restructuring
entity's indemnizaciones and salary enhancements (80% is suggested), and its
complement, the percentage of salary savings to be devoted to the Government's fiscal
dividend (20%)
3  Amortization period for restructuring entity's self-financing its share of severance
payment costs (4 years is suggested)
Parameters to be determined through the preparation and approval of each restructuring entity's
CRI include:
3 Value of assets to be divested
3 Personnel reductions
- Salary enhancement target percentage (i.e., percentage of salary savings targeted for
enhancing salaries of post-restructuring employees of the restructuring entity) (60% is
assumed in these simulations)
Employment reductions expected to be achieved in these simulations reflect targets that
SENDA authorities have suggested are likely to be reasonable, both for the Government as a
whole and for the individual Ministries identified in the attached "Cronograma de Acci6n."
These figures will be revised as each pubic entity formulates its own restructuring proposal under
the approved guidelines that will govern the restructuring process.
Exogenous parameters include:
*  Discount rate (a real discount rate of 15% is assumed in these simulations)
*  Average salary of departing employees (US$6,561 is assumed, consistent with the
magnitude of severance payments made during the first months of 1994, as reported
by the Banco Central de Ecuador (BCE))
*  Average antiguedad of departing employees (1 I years is assumed)



15
*  Average age of departing employees when they first became employed within the
public sector (30 years is assumed)
*  Average age at which departing employees would have separated from public sector
employment in the absence of the Restructuring Program (55 years is assumed)
*  Minimum salary at time employee departures create severance payment liabilities (the
current legal minimum salary of 70,000 sucres is assumed)
*  Exchange rate (2222 sucres per US$ is assumed)
2.    Projected Implications of the Restructuring Process
Given these assumptions, the simulation model determines a number of variables, the most
significant of which are:
*  Total cost of expected indemnizaciones (Present Value (PV) US$195.5 million for the
20,000 additional employees expected to depart between September 1994 and
December 1995; PV US$568.4 million for the full 51,000 employees expected to have
departed between January 1993 and December 1995)
*  Severance payment cost per departing employee (US$12,028, which equals the
average severance payment provided during the first months of 1994, according to
data provided by BCE)
*  Value of severance payments expected to be self-financed by restructuring entities
(PV US$124.1 million of the US$195.5 million of additional indemnizaciones expected
to be incurred), part of which will be achieved via the sale of assets and the balance by
annual charges against the entity's salary savings
*  Fraction of severance payments to be self-financed (55%)
*  Annual magnitude of self-financing of severance payments from salary savings over
the four-year amortization period envisioned (ranging between zero and US$55.8
million)
*  Annual magnitude of self-financing of salary enhancements by restructuring entities
(ranging between US$39.4 million and US$78.7 million)
*  Net present value of the fiscal dividend expected to accrue to the Treasury as a
consequence of the restructuring process (US$81.4 million less US$25.0 million for
non-severance payment costs of implementation of the Modernization of the State
program)
3.    Key Aspects of the Model
The model reported herein and summarized in Attachment 1 has the following important
features, in addition to the assumptions already enumerated above:
1. The following actions are all assumed to occur during the first four years of the
restructuring process



16
* all employee departures, and hence the date at which all severance payment liabilities
are expected to be incurred;
* all asset divestments
2. Salary savings from employment reductions are assumed to persist for as many years as
departed employees could have been expected to have remained employed within the
public sector in the absence of the Restructuring Program.
3. All projected future costs and benefits (e.g., salary savings) are fixed in real terms.
4. The discount rate reflects expected real interest rates in Ecuador (i.e., exclusive of
inflation), consistent with the projection of future benefits and costs in constant real terms.
5. Severance payment liabilities are calculated in accord with the formula specified in the Ley
de Modernizaci6n del Estado, and thereby reflect the anticipated salary levels and
antiguedad of employees expected to depart under the Restructuring Program.
6. The fiscal dividend for the Treasury is summarized in net present value terms in order to
properly combine benefits and costs that occur at different points in time.
While the simulations reported in Attachment 1 reflect expectations regarding the overall
Central Government-wide restructuring program, the model can readily be calibrated for specific
public entities. Due to an absence of data on expected divestments, it was necessary to make an
arbitrary assumption about those magnitudes when calibrating the model reported in Attachment
1. It was assumed that divestments would equal 45% of the annual salary reductions achieved
through reductions in force. This is a modest assumption, which means that the estimated net
present values reported in this Attachment probably err on the side of understating those net
benefits.
IV. Conclusions
The Public Entity Restructuring Program is designed to provide strong incentives to public
entities to:
*  identify precisely what objectives they should design their organization, its activities
and resources to achieve;
*  identify and discharge those workers whose functions are no longer required to attain
the entity's key objectives or whose productivity is inadequate to justify their
continued employment;
*  identify and divest those assets that are either unproductive or which impose budgetary
opportunity costs that could be more effectively incurred for other uses, such as the
financing of severance payment;
*  implement the financial management systems mandated by the Ley de Presupuestos;
*  restructure and reorganize the work flow of their entity so as to most efficiently
achieve its specific objectives;
*  provide timely and reliable information on their entity's performance in achieving its
stated objectives.



17
This strategy is also designed to provide a sustainable fiscal dividend to the Treasury of not
less than a fixed percentage of the personnel expenditure savings achieved through employment
reductions -- 20% has been suggested in the initial proposal. The fiscal dividend parameter, which
will be determined by the Government when it finalizes the restructuring strategy, reflects a
tradeoff that must be made between creating strong incentives for individual public entities to
undertake productive restructurings and providing the Treasury with a fiscal dividend. More
specifically, salary savings from retrenchment provide an opportunity to advance two important
goals of the Government: (i) improve the performance of public entities in delivering specific
services by allowing them to offer more competitive salaries in order to attract more highly
qualified employees; and (ii) reap a fiscal dividend, which can be used to ease the pressure on the
national Treasury. The draft proposal recommends that a high percentage of these savings --
around 80% -- be dedicated to salary enhancement and financing of required severance payments,
both because this provides a greater incentive for public entities to identify and phase out those
workers whose functions are redundant or unnecessary or who are not contributing significantly
to producing the products for which that entity is responsible, and because, the greater is the
reduction in personnel, the greater will be the total salary savings, and hence, the fiscal dividend
available to the Treasury.



Restructuring Projections by Semester
Number of      Total                 Employment Reductions:
Entities    Employment      Actual     Projected:         111195 -
Restructuring    Dec-92   12131/92- 5/10/94   5110194-12131194  Completion    Total
Prior to June 30,1995                      8        11929             2837           2501         1939      7277
PriortoDecember31. 1995                    7         6004              693            529          475      1697
Pnor to Junc 30,1996                      11        16437             1103           3855         2876      7834
TOTAL                                     26        34370            4633            6885         5290    16808
co
3A
H
:t1
H



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In Sucres
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Simulaci6n
En sucres
Variable                                                                                      Valor Presente         Aio I              Alo 2              Afo 3
Variables a ser acordadas en el Convenio de Reestructuracl6n Instttuclonal
Vaoraldon proyectada de los activos a ser vendkios                                              106,644,968,831
Reduccidn de gastos en perwnal debido ala reduccOn de servbdores pUbIkos                      3.935,943,384545 J   1457680.909       291551361818 !   291.551.361,818
Meta prcnt  del bncrenento salarl                                                                       60.0%     -  -                        . -  -0%
Resultnte Increnento en el sueldo promedlo (porcertaje)                                                  3.5%                1 9%t              3.8%f              3.8%
Varibles calculadas
Costo de las Iriemnzacbrnes adkconales                                                         434.479,502,647    267,255,415,000    267.255,415,000                -
Monto de las inbemnkacones adconables a ser autofinancladas                                    366,142,119,881    267,255,415,000    176.879,226,292
Pagos a financlarce por las lndemnlnacares anuales adkcbonales                                                    (93,610.311,900)    (93.610,311.900)
Pagos a financlarce por las Kkekmnizacones totales por anO                                     (499,651.428,043)    (93.610,311,900)   (187,220,623.799)   (187.220,623,799)
Varables ex6genas
Tasa de descuento                                                                                         15%                15%                15%                15%
Consequencdas fiscales para Ia Instltucl6n en restructuracl6n
Monto anual disponible para autofinanclamientos                                                975,616,630,814    182,219,601,136    298.840,145,864    233,241,089,455
Monto disponible para el ncreniento mabrial acordado                                          651,728,746,487     87,465,408,545    174,930,817,091    174,930,817,091
Monto disponible para ef autofinanciamlento de las Indemnizaciones                            275,763,074,408     93,610,311,900    123,909,328,773     58.310,272,364
Balance fiscal anual__                                                                          48,124,809,919.              ..
.. ... E ... = ... ' 1''''' '''''''''''"''' 1'''' "'''''''''''''''''''''-'1''... "'''---....  .........................
Variables establecidas por la estrategb de restructuracl6n                                                                      I
Porcentaje cle las indlemnizaciwes a ser autofinancdadas                                   *j1QOSS                                             86%                 31%
Porcentape del ahorro por reducclon de personal disponible para autofinanclamlento                                           80%                80%                80%
Perloda de amortizaci6n                                                                                                        4                  4                   4
Valor requerldo a fhturo                                                                                                       0                  0                   0
Dividendo fnscal para el Goblemo
Ingresos netos por arfo para el Tesoro                                                                              31.442,897,565     -5,001,022,663    -70,600,079,072
Flujo constante                                                                               333.795,732,158     58,310,272,364     58,310,272,364     58.310,272,364
Flup variable                                                                                -152,991,026,129     -26,867,374,799   -63,311,295,026    -128,910,351,435
Valor presente neto el Tesoro por 4 afios             _                                         180,804,706,0291
AUIOFINTXIS                                                                     1                                                                10/12/94 5:23 PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In Sucres
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e indemnizaciones: Sim
Variable                                                                                               ARo 4               ARo 5         ARo S y sigulentes
Vrables a ser acordadas en d Convenio de Reedmdcturad6n Insdlclonal
Varcln proyectada de los actilos a ser vendkdos
Reduccl6n de gastos en pesonl debido ala rIsuhn de senklorepublicos                                  291,551,381,818     291,551,361,818     291,551,361,818
Resltarnts hrcrenento en el suledo promiedlo (prcena)                                                          3.81                3 8%1               3.8
Vadabl   c kulfs 
Costo de habsmmw               adlwaina
Moto de Ias knemnzacnes adiclorales a se autofhancladas
Pagos. ficarce por bs W_enlaloe anuakes ad.oae                                                                                            _______
Pagos a  nancare por bs indemraclonts par adno                                                     (187,220,623,799)    (93,610,311,900)
Variables exogenas                                                                                              15%                 15%                 15%
Tasa de descuento15%5%1S 
Cosequenclas 1acks pare a l natltucl6n en reatructuracl6n                                                           _ ____
Monto anual dlspor'JbIe pars attofinan kanlets                                                      233,241,089,455     233,241,089,455     233,241,089,455
Moroana dsponible para d Incremento sabriamecordado                                                174,930,817,091     174,930,817.091     174,930,817,091
Monlo dsponibe pars el autofinanc larlento rdad n                                                   58,310,272,364      58b310,272,384
Babnce  nscal anual _
arabis estabecidas por in etrtegla de reatucturacl6n
Porentaj delin kennltans see auatofnancads                                                                                         62%                  0%
Porcente  deJ ahor por reduccl6n de pesonal dsponlbe par aufanclameto                                          80%                 80%                 80%
Perod  de arnortkzn                                                                                               4                   4                   4
Valor requeido a uturo                                                                                            0                   0 
Dvlvdendo fiscal pars ed Gobbrno                                                                                                          _ ____
Ingresos netos pr aClo para el Tesono                                                                -70,800,079,072      23,010,232.828     174,930,817,091
FlIn o cnstants                                                                                     58,310,272.364      58,310.272,364       58,310,272,364
Fljo mvribre                                                                                      -128,910,351,435     -35,300,039,538     116i620,544,727
Valor prent neto al Tesoro por 4 alt
AUTOFINTIXLS                                                                        2                                                                     10/12/94 5:23PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In Sucres
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Simulaci6n
~~  .'-~'.'t.r~ W .. . ~ ~   ~   ' ~ r s o   ~ ~  _......... ..............
En nwcres
Varible                                                                                       Valor Presente         Alo 1              Aflo 2              Aflo 3
Inforfnacl6n de base
Promedlo anual del salario total                                                             >i_a_
Profoedlo de antiguedad                                                                             /
Edad promedbo de entrada al sector pONbiCo
Edad promedlo en la que el servkdor p6bilco debl6 haber salkdo do no haber e)dstldo ol retiro voluntarbo   55
Promedbo del numero de atos que quedarlan antes de haber salkib de no haber eodstido el programa de retiro volu   14
Nrimero total de servidores pblicos en el perlodo base (Dkclembre 1992)
Nurmero de servdores pibllcos que se han reirado con Indemnizacores antes de Septlembre 1994  9K,
NOmero adicional de servkdores pOblko que se proyecta que salgan a travts del proceso de restructuraclon  2 00 B.
Nota: Porcentaje de reduccbdn de personal
A Agosto de 1994                                                                                        8.5%
Reducelones proyectads entre Spl94 y En/96                                                              5.5%
Total de reduccones prayectadas                                                                        14.0%                            r_
Cilculo de pagos por Indermnzacones
Salarbo mlniim vital (a Septembre 1994)                                                                70,000              70,000             70,000             70,000
Costo Individual promedbo por Indeonizacion                                                         26,725,542         26,725,542         26,725,542         26,725,542
Costos totales proyectados por indenacbnes                                                    1,262,971,289,147   267.255,415,000    267,255,415,000                -
Costo total por separalones ya realizadas (al 9/94)                                           828,491,786,500
Costo total proyectado par separeclones adcortales (despues de 8/94)                          434,479,502,647    267,255,415,000    267,255,415,000
TWpo de Cablo                                                                                            2,222                     _
AUTOFINTXLS                                                                     3                                                                 1/tl294 5:23 PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In Sucres
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Sim
Variable                                                                                                ABo 4               Afo 6         ABo t y siguientes
Infomacl6n de base
Promedbo anual del salarho total
Promedlo de antiguedad                      ___
Edad promedbo de entrada al sector pObilco
Edad promedbo en la que el servklor pOblico deblo haber salido de no haber existido al retiro voluntarbo
PromedNo del numero de aflos que quedarlan antes de haber salBdo de no haber eaxstido al programa de retiro volu
Numero total de servkiores pObicos en l periodo base (Dlckiebre 1992)
Numero de servloras pCiblcos que se han rtrado con indarnizaciones antes de Septlembre 1994
Numero adFknal de servidores pOblicos qua se proyecta que salgan a trav6s del proceso de restructuracldn
Noa: Porcentajie de reduccl6n de personal
A Agosto de 1994
Reduccinas proyectadas entre SpJ94 y Ent96
Total de reducebones proyaetidas
Chlcuto de pagos par indenizaclones
Salaulo minIma vtal (a Septlembre 1994)                                                                      70,000              70,000              70,000
Costo IndMdual profedbo por indemnkacion                                                                 28,725,542          26,725,542          26,725,542
Costos ttales proyactados por Indennizaciones                                                                        ___
Costo total por separacbnes ya realizadas (al 9/94)
Costo total proyectado por separaclones adiorkbnes (daspuas de 8194)
Tipo de Canblo
AUIOFINT.XLS                                                                        4                                                                     10/1294 5:23 PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In US$
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Sim
i ttR tRU R >@Ritk k k a k a ~~~~~~~~En US$
Variable                                                                                      Valor Presente         Arso 1             Aflo 2             Aflo 3
Variables a ser acordadas en el Convenho de Reestrueturacl6n InstUtucional 
Vabraclon proyectada de los acthoos a ser vendkios                                          $       47,995,035  $      29,522,528  $      29,522,528  $
Reduccl6ndegastosenpersonal debidoalareduccl6ndeservkdorespubicos                           S    1,771,351,658  $      65,605,617  S     131,211,234  $     131,211.234
Meta porcenttual del Incrernento sabrlarl                                                                 6D%                60%                60%                60%
Resulbnrte Inerernento en el sueldo promnedio (prcentaJe)                                                3.5%                1.9%               3.8%               3.8%
Variables ealculadas
Costo de las indemntzacbones adkcloales                                                     $      195,535,330  $     120,276,964  S     120,276.964  S             -
Monto de las IndemnLzacbones adicbonabs a ser utAotinarcidas$                                      164,780,432  $     120,276,964  $      79,603,612  S
Pagos a financlarce por las indemnnlzacones anuales adiclonales                                                $      (42.128.853) S     (42.128.853) S
Pagos a financlarce por las indemninacrones ttales por afo                                  S     (224,865.629) $     (42,128,853) S     (84,257,706) S      (84,257,706)
Variables ex6genas                                                                                                                _
Tasa de descuento                                                                                         15%                15%                15%                15%        U
Consequenclas fiscales para la lnstltucl6n en restructuraclon
Monto anual disponible para autofinanclamentos                                              S      439,071,391  $      82,007,021  S     134,491,515  $     104,968,987
Monto disponible para el incremrento sabaal acordado                                       $     293.307,267  $      39,363,370  S       78,726,740  $      78,726,740
Monto disponible para el autofinanclamlento de las Indemnkzacbones                        S      124,105,794  $      42,128,853  S       55,764,774  S      26,242,247
Balance fiscal anual                                                                        $       21,658.330  $        514,798  $              (0) S
Vartables establecidas por la estrategla de restructuracl6n
Porcenta*e de las Inxemnizacbnes a ser autorinancldas                                                     55%                55%               100%                66%
Porcentape del ahorro por reduccl6n de personal disponible para autoflnanclamernto                        80%                80%                80%                80%
Perlodo de amortizaclon                                                                                     4                   4                  4                  4
Valor requeido a fhturo                                                                                      0                  0                  0                  0
Dlvidendo fiscal para el Goblemo
Ingresos netos por aso para el Tesoro                                                       S             -   S        14,150,719  $      (2.250,685) $      (31,773,213)
Flujo constante                                                                           S      150,223,102  S      26,242,247  S      26,242,247  S       26,242,247
Fhupo variable                                                                            S       (68,852.847) S     (12,091.528) $     (23,492,932) $     (58,015,460)
Valor presente neto al Tesoro por 4 a5os                                                    S       81,370,255  S                 S                  S
ALTrOFfNT.XLS                                                                   I                                                                 10/12/94 5:5t PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In USS
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salarlales e Indemnizaclones: Sim
Vablabb                                                                                               Allo 4             ARo 5         Aflo S y sugumntes
Varables a ser acordadas en ol Convenlo de Reestrucbucl6n Instituconal
Vabraci6n proyactoda de los acbvos a ser verddos                                               $              -   $               -   $
Reducclon de gastos en personal debidom aa reduccldn do servidors piblicos                     $       131,211,234  $     131.211,234  $      131,211.234
Meta porcentul del Inremento sabl                                                                              D60%              60%                 60%
Resullante Incrernento en el sueldo promnedbo (porcentae)                                                    3.8%                3.8%                3.8%
Variables calculadas
Costo de las indemnlzacianes adlcanales                                                         $             -   $               -   $               -
Monto de las Indemnkzaclones adiornales a ser auofinancadas                                    $                   $                   $
Pagos a fnanclarce por las Indemnkaclones anuals adlclonales                                   S                   $                   $
Pagos a financlarce oor las lndernlntzacbnes totabls por ao                                    $       (84,257,706) $      (42.128,853) $
Variables ex6genas
Tasa de descuento                                                                                             15%                 15%                15%
I                   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Consequenclas fiscales para Is lnstitucl6n en restructuracl6n
Monto anual disp,nible para autoflnanclamnentos                                                $       104,968,987  $     104,968,987  $      104,968,987
Monto disponible para el increento salaral acordado                                           $       78,726,740  $       78,726,740  $      78,726,740
Monto dlsponible para el autofinanclamento de las lndemnlzacbnes                              $       26,242,247  $       26,242.247  $
Balance fiscal anual                                                                           $              -    $              -   $        26,242,247
Variables estabocidas por la estrategla do restructuracl6n
Porcentaje de s Indemnizacmes a ser autaofinancladas                                                          31%                31%                 62%
Porcentap del ahorro por reducclon de personal dslponible pars autofinanclamlento                             80%                80%                 80%
Perlodo do alTortzwan                                                                                           4                   4                   4
Valor requerido a futuro                                                                                         0                  0                   0
Dlvidendo fiscal pars el Goblemo
Ingresos netos por ato para el Tesoro                                                          $       (31,773,213) $      10,355,640  $       78,726,740
Fluo constante                                                                                $       26,242,247  $      26,242,247  $       26,242,247
Fluo variable                                                                                 S      (58,015,460) $      (15,886,606) $      52,484,494
Valor presento not al Tesoro por 4 sIos                                                        S              -    $
AUrOFEnTXLS                                                                        2                                                                   10/12/94 5:58 PM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In US$
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Sim
En US$
Varable                                                                                          Valor Presente          Alto 1             Aflo 2              AMo 3
Inforna6n doe base
Promodo anual del salarbo total                                                                $            6,561
Promedo doe antiguedad                                                                                         11
Edad prowedlo de entrada al sector pObilco                                                                     30
Edad prorobdo en l quo at serAdor pobblo debl6 haber saldo doe no haber xistido el retiro voduntarbo           55
Promnedio dot numnoro de als quo quodarlan mites de haber saldo do no haber eastido at programa de retiro vol  14
Nomero total doe servidores pebllcos en at perlodo base (Dklembre 1992)                                    365000
NOmero de servtdores pObtlcos que se han retrado con idemrnnzclobnes antes doe Septernbre 1994              31000
NOmero adcbnal de servklores pObllcos quo se proyeact que salgan a travis del proceso doe restructuracl6n   20000
Nota: Porcentape do reducclon doe personal
A Agosto doe 1994                                                                                          8.5%
Reducclnes proyecdas entre Sp/94 y En/98                                                                   5.5%
Tot doe reoduccnos proyctadas                                                                             14.0%
Cilculo de pagos por IndermnUzacknos
Salarlo minimo vRal (a Septlembre 1994)                                                        $              32
Costo hdivioual promedbo por hd1ernnacln                                                       $           12,028  $          12.028  S           12,028  $           12,028
Costos tdtales proyeetbdos por idemnnecizors                                                   $      568,393,920  $      120,276,964  $     120,276,964  $              -
Costo total por soparaclnes ya relizadas (al 9/94)                                           $      372,858,590  $              -   $              -   $
Costo total proyectado por sparacbones adionales (despos doe 8/94)                           $      195,535,330  $      120,276,964  S      120,276,964  $
Anpo de Carnbob2                                                                                                                                               1z:
AU'rOMITXS                                                                        3                                                                   10/13/94 t 55 AM



Restructuring Financing Plan Simulation Model: In USS
Autofinanciamiento de los Incrementos Salariales e Indemnizaciones: Sim
&t ,+g,>,e,<t.ixg-                                         W.""A  W
Variable                                                                                               Aflo 4              Aflo 6         Alo 6 y siguientes
nformacl6n de base
Promodlo anual del salarlo total
Promedlo de antiguedad
Edad promedlo de entrada al sector publico
Edad promedbo en la que el senrkdor pibiloo dob16 haber sailda de no haber eoxstdo el rtiro voluntario
Promedlo del numero de anos que quedarlan antes de haber saildo de no haber eMdstido e1 programa de retiro volu
NOmero total de sorvidores pubilcos en el perlodo bas (DFlembre 1992)
NOmero de srvidores pCbllos que se han refirado con Indemniizaclanes antes de Septlembre 1994
NOmero adiclonal do servkdor  pubilos que se proyecta que salgan a traves del proceso de restructuracl6n
Noa: Porcentajo de reduccl6n de persoral
A Agosto de 1994
Reducobnes proyectadas entre Spt94 y Enl98                                                                                        .
Total de reducciens proyeoctdas
CMcuIo de pagos por lndemnadones z
Salarlo minlmo vitl (a Sepeonebre 1994)
Costo kiwlMdual prasrnedlo por InmrwozAdn                                                        $           12,028  $           12,028  $           12.028
Costos totales proyeoados por Indemninacons                                                      $              -   $               -    $
Costo total por separaclones ya roallzadas (t 9/94)                                            $              .                        $
Costo total proyctado por separaclnes adiclonalos (despues de 8/94)                            $                   $                   $
T    dpo de Camblo
AUTOFINT.XlS                                                                        4                                                                    10/13/94 8:55 AM



Page 1
ECUADOR
MODERNIATION OF THE STATE TECHNIAL ASSISTANCEPRJC
Detaile  Project Implemnotaon  la
INSTITU-
PROIECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING         RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                   AND IMPACT                                                  DATES             FREQUE   SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
1. Public Financial Mauntemuent and Control
A. Budget Systm                      M__
1. Medium-Term      * There is no long-term   Output                      Objectives                                         Quarterly    MFCP/
Budgetary            budget perspective        * Modern medium-term        * To formulate a multi-year                                    SGP
Framework            * Methodology for         budget system, including   budget, including income and
medium-term budgetary     projection of medium-term    expenditures.
framework is non-         income and expenditures
existent.                 and linking the budget     Indicators
* There is no link        process with medium-term   * Development of required        6/94-7/95
between budget system     public investments.        methodologies.
and public investment                                * Issuance of instructions to    7/95-9/95
planning.                 Impact                     ministries and other agencies.
* Improved financial       * Presentation to Congress of first  9/95-1/96
planning through ability to    multi-year budget.
estimate revenues and
expenditares beyond the
present on-year                                                                                         >
framework. 
z



Page 2
INSTITU-
PROJECT                                                                   PHYSICAL OBJECTrVES AND    STARTING               MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPION OF             EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS           AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                 DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                              NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
2. Budget            * Budget does not cover    Output                   Objectives                                                    MFCP
Formulation          entire public sector.     * Modern integrated        * Expand integrated program-
* There is an inadequate   budget, including all    budget coverage to autonomous
relationship between     agencies, with quantified  agencies and seccional'
expenditure and revenue    program objectives and   governments.
estimates due to poor    financial projections of   * Incorporate revenue estimates,
coordination between the   revenues and expenditures   including taxes, fees and credits,
respective offices.      in a cash budget.          into an integrated cash budget,
* Budget objectives and  * Budget formulated using    while limiting use of earmarked
products are not identified  computerized system.   funds.
in a program-budget                                 * Develop computerized budget                                               0
format.                  Impact                     system for formulation and
* Budget formulation is  * The budget will be an    presentation.
not fully computerized.    instrument suitable to
simultaneously assist in   Indicators
managing macroeconomic    * Presentation of 1995           9/94-11/94        Monthly
policy, government         Consolidated Public Sector Budget
operations and financial  to Congress before end-1994.
resources.                 * Program budget for 1996       9/95-12/95        Quarterly
including all autonomous entities,
in addition to central government
and sectoral ministries and the
rest of the public sector by 1997.
* Inclusion in 1997 budget      9/96-12/96        Quarterly
presentation of a cash budget,
including besides expenditure
estimates, revenue and credit
projections.
* System installation for       9/94-9/95         Quarterly
computerized formulation of
1996 program budget in MFCP.                                             l



Page 3
INSTrr`U-
PROJECT                                                                  PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING              MONrTO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS          AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                            NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
3. Budget Execution   * Budget execution is  Output                     Objectives
cumbersome with many     * Modern computerized     * To make payments through the
unnecessary steps.       budget execution system,    banking system.
* There are no norms for   supportive of effective  * To develop norms for budget
the use of principal     program management and    execution and to incorporate them
expenditure objects or   accountability and based on  in a manual.
classifications.         norms that allow efficient    * To use a computerized system
* The compilation and    object of expenditure and    to manage, control and supervise
processing of information   cash control, as well as on   budget execution.
during budget execution is  proper accounting rules and
not computerized.        procedures.
* The budget is not linked                         Indicators
to program execution as a   Impact                 * Installation at all levels of  5/94-2/97        Quarterly   MFCP/
tool for managerial      * Will provide the        government of a system to make                                BCE
accountability.          budgetary infrastructure  payments through the bank
required for improved     network in coordination with the
management of financial   BCE.
resources and the program    * Installation of a pilot or bridge  12/94     Monthly    MFCP
management accountability   computer system.
required for changing the  * Issuance of budget execution  By 12/94         Monthly    MFCP
present bureaucratic culture  handbook.
of Ecuadoran public       * Installation of definitive
administration into one   computerized budgetary
oriented to assuming      accounting system at:
responsibility for goal     Central level                  6/94-9/96        Quarterly   MFCP/
accomplishment.             Ministerial level              10/96-12/97      Quarterly   Com. Infor
Rest of the Government        12/97-5/99       Quarterly   matica



Page 4
INSTrrU-
PROJECT                                                                   PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING               MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS           AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                 DATES              FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                              NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
4. Program Control   * Control applies only to    Output                 Objectives
and Evaluation       financial operations of the   * Modern computerized  * To modernize control and
Central Government.      budget control and         evaluation of program and budget
* Evaluation of budgetary   evaluation system covering   implementation of the Central
operations of the Central   the entire public sector.  Government, autonomous entities
Government is non-                                  and public enterprises, as well as
existent.                Impact                     of financial transactions and
* Control and evaluation    * Better macroeconomic,  public investments.
processes for budgets of    operational and financial
all other public agencies    management as a result of   Indicators
are non-existent.        timely provision of        * Issuance of instructions for
* There is no            information to the         management control and
computerized reporting   respective government      evaluation of program budget
system for control and   officials.                 execution for:
evaluation of operations.                             central government             6/94-9/95         Quarterly    MFCP/
autonomous entities           6/94-9/95         Quarterly    Com Infor
public enterprises            6/94-11/96        Quarterly    matica
investment projects           6/94-11/97        Quarterly



Page 5
INSTITU-
PROJECr                                                                   PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING               MONrTO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT           MONlTORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                  DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                              NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
B, PubLic Credit     *Management of public    Modemiztion of public       Objectives                                        Quaterly    MFCP/
Syatn                credit is unrelated to the    debt managemnt on the  * Introduction of appropriate   End 6/94                      SCP/
budget process or        basis of:                  infomtion systems and data                                     BCE
trecsury.                                           bases.                           6/94 to 8/94
* Poor coordintion       oupt                                                        SEE
beween MFCP and BCE    * An organic and functional  Indicators                      INFORMATICS
with respect to public   reorganization of the      * Needs assessment mission by    10/94 to 1/95
cdt.                     Undersecreaiat of Public    UNCTAD
* L1c of an adequate     Credit in MFCP.            * Reorganized SCP                1/95 to 3/95
infurnmion system for    * Adequae coordination     * Integrated debt information
public debt mnagent.   between MFCP and BCE.    system development                   8/94 to 7/95
* Development of norms for
budget formulation
* Developmment of norms for
budget execution
* UNCTAD TA Prqiect and
DMFAS implmetation



Page 6
INSTITU-
PROJECr                                                                  PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING               MONTO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS           AND ENDING       RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SIBUITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                            NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
C. Govermnt          * Government accounting   Output                    Objectives
Acrunting and        records ae not cufent    * Modern computerized      * Clear delimitation of functions
Treasury             and reports ae not       accounting system,         and authority on accounting
produced in a timely     including the budgetary   operations between MFCP and
fashion to allow their use   accountng and reporting  CGE.
as an input to budgetary    subsystem, with         * Functional reorganization and
control.                 decentralized operations  professional sbengthening of the
a Responsibility for     nd a modern organization    units responsible for accounting.
accounting is divided   to opemte it.               * To computerize accounting
between MFCP and CGE.                              operations beyond those related to
Inpact                    budgetary accounting.
- Will provide the basis for
effective control of      Indicators
financial resources and   * Adoption of an appropriate    1/95-6/95         Monthly    MFCP/
auditing of transactions in a   division of responsibilities among                      CGE
timely fashion.           MFCP and CGE.
* Implementation of            3/95-6/95         Monthly    MFCP
reorganization of the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and
Accounting.
* Insllation of new subsystems
for accounting of treasury and  Same as above                MFCP/
other functions to complement the  for central   Quarterly   Com Infor
decentralized components of the    government                matica
Government budgetary accounting   budget execution
subsystem already covered under
l___________________     ______________________      budget execution.



Page 7
INSTrrU-
PROJECr                                                                  PHYSICAL OBIECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECrED OUTPUT           MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                 DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                              NCY         FOR
EXECU`-
TION
D. Audit of Publie    * Traditional ayrach     Output                    Objctives                                          Quarterly    CGE
Rsurces              inwvolving both ex-ante   * Reorgaized CGE           * New role of CGE concentating
and ex-post audits.      incorporang mdern          audits on ex-post controls.      1/95 to 12/96
* Control procesmes not    functions and processes.
useful to managem_t of    * Establihmt of modem    Indicators
entities and agencies, nor   intenal audit units    * Issuance of revised standards
decision-making regarding  throughout the Public    (normatividad) for control ex-
budget.                  Sector.                    ante.
* Need to implement                                 * Implementation of revised
Budget Law control       Impact                     control approach required by the    8/94 to 12/94
process.                 * Increase in efficiency and   Budget Law.
* Weak internal          effectiveness audits, as a  * CGE Reorganized.
administration and human   service to management of    * Increase in CGE's staff output.
resources.               entities and agencies.     * Number/percent of internal
audit units established.
E. Public            * The policies and        Output                    Objectives                                         Monthly    CGE
Contracting          procedures for public     * Preparation and approval   * Modernization of the public
procurement and          of a new Public Contracting  contracting procedures.
contracting are extremely   Law.
complex and have become   * Updated norms and       Indicators
an obstacle to the efficient  procedures that are   * Contract consulting firm and   By 1/95.
handling of administrative   compatible with the new  individuals to prepare the new
processes.               Law.                       law.
* Approval of the new Law.      9/95
hnpact                    * Preparation of the regulations.    10/95
l  * Prepare procedural manual.   3/96.



Page 8
INSTITU-
PROJECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRI'TION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING         RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                   DATES             FREQUE    SIBILTY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                               NCY          FOR
EXECU-
TION
F. Payroll and       * The administration of    Output                     Indicators                                         Quarterly   SENDA
Personnel System     huran resources reflects    Modernization of the      * Hiring of consultants;         1/95-3/95
the complexities of the  personnel managemnnt and   * Carrying out of a census of     11/95-3/96
public administration,    salary payment functions on   Public Employment;
including inefficiencies  the basis of:              * Organic and functional         1/95
and unrealistically low   * Introduction of efficient    strengthening of SENDA;
salaries.                processes for personnel     * Restructuring of public        12/98
management;                administration;
* Creation of technical    * Standardization of             1/96 to 7/96
procedures for the revision   administrative functions;
of salaries.               * Administrative efficiency units;   1/95-6/95
* Criteria for the evaluation of the  3/9-8/95
restructuring.



Page 9
l                                                              INSTrrU-
PROJECT                                                                  PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING              MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS          AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                            NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
G. Information       * An automated,          Output                    Indicators                                        Quarterly   IIC
Systems (SIGEI)    integrated system of       * Creation of an           * Agreement to establish the IIC.   12/94
financial management is   Interinstitutional       *Designation of the members of    12/94
non-existent.            Informatics Commission    the IIC.
(IC) to oversee the       * Installation of bridge system for  6/95
acquisition.              budget execution.
* Develop a modem         * Testing and adjustment of     8/95
informatics plan and      procedures for budget execution.
functional specifications for   * Definition of SIGEF     6/95
an integrated system of   specifications.
financial management      * Definition of the strategy for  6/95
(SIGEF).                  administration of SIGEF.
* Separation of the budget   * Complete technical         10/95
and treasury functions.   specifications and formulate the
requirements for the bidding
documents.
Inpact                    * Definition of the criteria for  10/95
evaluation of the offers.
* Formalization of the          1/96
Participation Agreements with
relevant ministries.
* Procurement of the information   10/95-8/96
systems.
* Adaptation of the software to  8/96-8/97
local requirements.
* Installation of SIGEF in the five   1/97-9/97
core' agencies.
* Installation of SIGEF in one  9/97-12/98
main budget unit in each of the
ministries and all budget units in
the core' agencies.
H1. Public Sector Modernization



Page 10
[NSTITU-
PROJECr                                                                  PHYSICAL OBJECTrVES AND    STARTING              MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPIMON OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS          AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SIBILlTY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                            NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
A. Sengtheizg of   * Modern methodologies    Outpt                      Objectives                                                    SGP
Panning              and procedures for       * A modem planning         * A plaming system geared to a
Framework            planning are non-existent.  system onented to a market  market bsed economy with a
* There ar no linkages    economy in which state   regional orientation consistent
between planning and the   intervention is subsidiary  with Ecuador's geographic
budget                   and supportive of private    charactristics and linked
* The procedures for     sector efforts, rather than    effectively with budget
prgamming and            direct and distortive of  formulation and implementation.
monitoring investment    market forces.            * A strengthened decentralized
projects need                                      planning organizational network,
strengthening.           Imnpact                   including SGP, sectoral and
* The organization and   * Will provide the basis for  regional planning units.
staffing of SGP and the  strategic management of    * An effective system for
rest of the government is   government efforts at the    investment project programming
inadequate to meet the   global and sector levels to   and monitoring.
needs of a modern        attain economic and social
strategic management     development, while        Indicators
system.                  incorporating the interests    * Signing of twinning agreement    12/94     Monthly
and aspirations of all    with a national planning agency.
regions of the country.   * Installation of adapted planning    12/94-7/96  Quarterly
system at SGP.
* Installation of a packaged    12/97            Monthly
investment project management
system.
* Reorganization and functional    1/95-7/96     Quarterly
strengthening of SGP to adapt it
to managing the new planning
system.
* Issuance of decree updating the   8/94-9/95    Monthly
planning legal framework
* Extension by SGP of new      7/96-8/97         Monthly
B. Restructuring and Management Sengthening



Page 11
lNsTrrU-
PROJECT                                                                 PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING               MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS          AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                            NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
1. Decenalizaion    * Public admintraon      Output                     Objectives                                       Quartedy   CONAM/
Plan                 decision-maing and       * The decentalizaion of   * To fornmlae a plan to                                       SENDA/
actions ae too highly    govemment managemet       implemet te policy of                                         SGP
centralized, adversely   through a program that    decentralization formulated by
affecting effectiveness and  involves both         CONAM, once it is approved by
interegional equity in   deconcenhation of centrally  the Govemment. (See HI-B
provision of government    managed activities and the    below)
services to the citizeny,    devolution of functional
while restricting popular   responsibility and authority  Indicators
participation.           to sectional levels of    * Analysis of existing draft legal   3t95-6/95
governmet, while takdng    instuments.
into account economic and    * Preparation of the National  6195-12195
administrative efficiency  Decentralization Plan.
criteria.                 * Development of the            12/95-1/98
Impact                    decentralization strategy.      12195-9/98
* Will make government    * Development of the
actions more responsive to   deconcentration strategy.    12195-9/98
the diverse needs of the
various social groups and  * Development of the
regions of the country.   regionalization strategy.
* Strengthen demoeracy
through broader citizen
participation and reduce
unnecessary bureaucracy
thus making govemment
action mor eficient.



Page 12
INSTrIU-
PROJECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPEMON OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT             MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                   DATES             FREQUE    SlBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
2. Establishment of   * Inability of Govenment  Output                    Objeclives                       initial Cea3      Cenns:      CONAM
the Framework        to reliably track all types    * Census of all public  * Census executed, summarized   * Contract signed  At
of public employment sad   employment and personnel   and published                   3/95              deadlines    Census:
personel expenditures    expenditures every 5 years    * Payroll and personnl system  * Census
undermine its capacity to   * PayroUl and persomnel  instlled and opeational          published 9/95
evaluate extent and      system integrated into                                       Second Census
sources of excessive     SIGEF                       Indicators                       * Contract signed   SIGEF     SIGEF
public employment                                    * Census results published       9/98              PayroU      PayroUl
expenditures.            lInpact                     * Census circulation             * Census          and         and
* Improve capacity of core   * Number of Ministries operating   published 3/99  Personnel   Personnel
Government agencies to     SIGEF payroll and personnel                        Systemn:    System:
formulate personnel and    system                           SIGEF Payroll    Bimonthly                   w
expenditure policies       * Number of public employees     and Personnel                                co
encompassed by SIGEF payroUl    Systm
and personnel system (total and  * 6/96
relative to total Central
Government employment)



Page 13
INSTITU-
PROJECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT             MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                   AND IMPACT                                                  DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
3. Implementation    *Excessive levels of      Output                     Objectives                       Start 5/94        Quarlerly    CONAM
of Restructuring     public employment         * Restructured public       * Public agencies restructured
* Inefficient provision of    agencies               * Public employment reduced      End 6/99
public services           * Reduced public           * Remuneation enhanced in
* Ineffective management   employment                restructured agencies
of public agencies        * Enhanced remuneration
* Public agencies        in restructured Ministnes    Indicators
unresponsive to public                               * Number of agencies
demands for the services    inpacts                  restructured
they provide              * Increased efficiency in  * Reduction in public employment
provision of public services   * Change in average remuneration
by restructured Ministries    by type of position in restructured
Improved public services   agencies
in restructured Ministries  * Increased cost-effectiveness of
public service provision in
restructured agencies
* Increased levels of public
services provided by restructured
agencies.



Page 14
INSTITU-
PROJECr                                                                     PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                 MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT             DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT             MONlTORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING         RESPON-
PROBLEM                   AND IMPACT                                                   DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                 NCY          FOR
EXECU-
TION
4. Monitoring and    * Progress and impacts of   Output                    Objectives                       Start 1/95         Semi-       SENDA/
Evaluation           restuctrn process must  * Updated dabase on            * Datbse on execution and                           annually    CONAM
be monitored and          execution and impacts of    impacts of restuctuing process is  End 6/99
evaluated in order to     restructuring pcess         maintained ad updated regularly
mnge process              * Evaluations of progress   * Evaluations of progress and
effectively,              and impacts of restruing  impacts of restructring process
process                    executed
lmpacts                    Indcators
0 Effective and gradually  * Number and fraction of
improving restructuring    restuctured agencies complying
process                    with reporting requirements
agreed to in Resructuring
Agreements
* Semi-annual progress
evaluations completed on time



Page 15
PROJECT                                                                  PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING               MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF           EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS           AND ENDING        RING       RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                DATES             FREQUE   SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                             NCY        FOR
EXECU-
TION
C. Coordination of   * There is a total lack of   Output                 Objectives                                        Quarterly   SENDA
Public Sector        coordination of the      * Procedures established to   * Training in the management and   Continuous
Training             training programs offered   streamline and strengthen    control of public finances.
by public sector        the coordination of training   * Training for the Modernization    Continuous
institutions.            offered by public sector  efforts.
institutions, especially with
respect to the activities  Indicators
under the Govemment's     * Number of public employees
Modenization of the State   trained under the management and   Continuous
program.                  control of public finances
component
Inpact                    * Number of public employees                                               4'
trained under the public sector
modernization component
* Evaluations of training impacts
Continuous
m. Coordination of the Reforn Program



Page 16
INSTITU-
PROJECT                                                                   PHYSICAL OBJECTrVES AND    STARTING               MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT            MONITORING INDICATORS           AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                  AND IMPACT                                                 DATES             FREQUE   SIBIXTY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                              NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
A. Definition of the   * There is no clear     Output                     Objective                                         Quarterly   CONAM
Role of the State    definition of the role and    * A statement of       * To provide a definition of the
architecture of the state  macroinstitutional policy,  desired role of the state which
desired at the end of the    reflecting a consensus of  would be the target of the
modernization effort.    diverse points of view on  modernization effort with as wide
Such a definition is not  the role and nature of the  a consensus as feasible.
only a technical matter,    state that such be the target
but it should reflect also    of the modernization effort.  Indicators
the views of society as a                           * Formulation of draft proposal    5/95-8/95
whole to ensure continuity  Irnpact                 for the role of the state.
in the pursuit of that goal   * Will help ensure that the
over the long time frame    macrointstitutional policy
required for its         that guides the
attainment.              modernization effort enjoys
as wide a support as
possible and will allow
continuity of efforts over
the various administrations
that will have to pursue that
goal.
B. Decentralization    * There are at present  Output                     Objectives                                        Monthly    CONAM
Policy               various decentralization  * Government policy with    * A decentralization policy that
proposals prepared by    respect to decentralization    reconciles various viewpoints on
different public sector  to guide the actions of the    this central issue of the
agencies with little     decentralization plan to be    modernization effort and provides
coordination among them.   formulated by SENDA.     guidance for SENDA's work in
defining the decentralization plan.
Impact
* Will provide the         Indicators
framework for a            * Holding meeting of            11/94-4/95
coordinated effort to attain   decentralization experts.
decentralization.          * Issuance of decentralization  5/95-7/95
I policy by Government.         I_I                    _      I_I



Page 17
INSTrrU-
PROJECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT             MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                   AND IMPACT                                                  DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
C. Dissnination      * The Government's        Output                      Indicators                                         Monthly    CONAM
Modernization program is   * The establishment of    * Dissemination of the progress  Continuous
not well publicized and   policies and intensive     and benefits of the various
often mimuderstood by     dissemination programs to    components and sub-components
the public at large.     provide information         of the project.
regarding the progress of
the Government's
modenization program and
its benefits.
D. Project Audit      MThere is a need to      Output                      Indicators                                                     CONAM         4-
guarantee that the        * Establish an adequate    * Project accounts established.  1/95-3/95
Government's              charter of accounts for
modernization efforts are   project activities.      * Annual project audits completed
carried out in the most   * Contract the services of    within the six-month period after    Annually   Annually
transparent manner        an independent audit firm  the end of the fiscal year.
possible, and to comply    to carry out annual project
with the audit            audits, for at least a three
requirements of the       year period.
international agencies,
including the Bank.



Page 18
INSTITU-
PROJECT                                                                    PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES AND    STARTING                MONITO    TIONAL
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF            EXPECTED OUTPUT             MONITORING INDICATORS            AND ENDING        RING        RESPON-
PROBLEM                   AND IMPACT                                                  DATES             FREQUE    SIBILITY
/ SUBCOMPONENT                                                                                                                NCY         FOR
EXECU-
TION
E. Project           * Weak coordination.      Output                      Objectives                       2/94-12198        Quarterly    CONAM
Managenent           Need a technically        * Establish an effective    * Establishment of a monitoring
qualified group to        monitoring system to       system in line with project needs
supervise and coordinate    control and evaluate     (project accounts, audit
implementation of the     progress on a regular basis.  requirement, Implementation
various components and    * Procurement on schedule   Completion Report, etc.)
subcomponents.            and in accordance with
World Bank guidelines.     Indicators
* TORs for consultants and
Inpact                     studies prepared, reviewed and
Efficient monitoring of  executed.                                                                     4
project implementation.    * Periodic progress reports.
* Annual TA evaluation reports,
wrk plans and audits.
* Quality and timeliness of
procurement and disbursement
activities.



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 101. Medium-term Budgetary Framework
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (US$             Base Cost (US$  000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget                            Staffmonth       -    12    12       -     -      -    24      8      -  96.0  96.0      -      -     - 192.0
D. Local Consultants
Long-term Budget                             Staffmonth      2    12    12       -     -      -    26   3.5   7.0  42.0  42.0        -      -     -  91.0
Long-term Budget                             Staffmonth      -    12    12       -     -      -    24   3.5       -  42 .0  42.0     -      -     -  84 .0
Long-term Budget                             Staffmonth      -    12      -      -     -      -    12   3.5       -  42 .0     -     -      -     -  42 .0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                         7.0 126.0  84 .0      -     -      - 217. 0
C. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                 Amount                                                           1. 3   1.3   1.3     -      -     -   3.9
Management Training                            Amount                                                             -   0.9   0.9   0.9       -     -   2.7
Trainers of Medium-term Budget Framework   Amount                                                                 -   6.5   6.5   2.6   2.6        -  18.2
Subtotal Training                                                                                                  1.3   8.7   8 .7   3.5   2.6       -  24 .8
Total                                                                                                                   8.3 230.7 188.7   3.5   2 6        - 433.8
Thu Nov 10 17:53:33 1994
1u
(A
1-1 Medium-term Budgetary Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 101. Medium-term Budgetary Framework
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in I)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                    Summary Divisions
Rate  Exch. Rate          Conponent            Expenditure Account
I. Inve-t nt costs
A. IntArnational Consultants
Long-term Budget                              5.0 100.0   0.0    MT_BUD_FRAME_COMP       LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Budget                             5.0   0.0   7.0    MT_BUD_FRAME_COMP         LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Budget                             5.D   0.0   7.0    MT BUD_FRAME CCOMP        LT LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Budget                             5.0   0.0   7.0    MT_BUD_FRAME_COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Training
Training of the Trainers Local               5.0   0.0   0.0    MT BUD FRAME COMP             TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training                          5.0   0.0   0.0    MT_BUD_FRAME_COMP              OTHER_TRG EA
Trainers of Medium-term Budget Framework   5.0   0.0   0.0    MT_BUD_FRAME_COMP               TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Subtotal Training
Total
0u
1-2 Medium-term Budgetary Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 102. Budget Formulation
Detailed Costs
Par a
Unit
Cost                                                  Phy.
Quantities                    (US$              Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total  000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget                    Staffmonth      -    12       6      -      -     -    18       8      -  96.0  48.0       -     -      - 144.0   5.0
Long-term Budget                    Staffmonth      -    12       6      -      -     -    18       8      -  96.0  48.0       -     -      - 144.0   5.0
Subtotal International Consultants                                                                            - 192.0  96.0       -      -      - 288.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior                    Staffmonth      2    12    12        -      -     -    26   1.5   3.0  18.0  18.0          -      -     -  39.0   5.0
Long-term Junior                    Staffmonth      -    12    12        -      -     -    24   1.5        -  18.0  18.0       -     -      -  36.0   5.0
Long-term Junior                    Staffmonth      -    12    12        -      -     -    24   1.5        -  18.0' 18.0       -     -      -  36.0   5.0
Long-term Senior                    Staffmonth      6    12    12        -      -     -    30       3  18.0  36.0  36.0        -     -      -  90.0   5.0
Long-term Local                    Staffmonth       -    12       8      -      -     -    20       3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0
Long-term local                    Staffmonth       -    12       8      -      -     -    20       3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0
Long-term Local                    Staffmonth       -    12       8      -     -      -    20       3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0
Long-term Local                    Staffmonth       -    12       8      -     -      -    20       3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0
Long-term Local                    Staffmonth       -    12       8      -      -     -    20       3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                 21 0 270.0 210.0       -      -     - 501.0
C. Training
Trainers of Budget formulation    Amount                                                                8.6  32.6   2.6   1.3   1.3         -  46.4   5.0
Development of Seminars              Amount                                                               -  30.0  15.0  15.0  15.0         -  75.0   5.0
Study Tours                          Amount                                                               -  10.3   5.3       -      -      -  15.6   0.0
Subtotal Training                                                                                           8.6  72.9  22.9  16.3  16.3        - 137.0
Total                                                                                                           29.6 534.9 328.9  16.3  16.3         - 926.0
Thu Nov 10 17:53:39 1994
2-1 Budg-t Formulation



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 102. Budget Formulation
Detailed Costs
meters (in
I)
Groiss
For.   Tax                    Summary Divisions
Exch. Rate          Component             Expenditure Account
r. Investawnt Costa
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget                  100.0   0.0        BUD FORM COMP        LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Budget                  100.0   0.0        BUD7FORM-COMP        LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal International Consultants
D. local Consultants
Long-term Junior                    0.0   7.0        BUD FORM COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior                    0.0   7.0        BUD FORM_COMP         LT LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior                    0.0   7.0        BUD FORM COMP         LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior                    0.0   7.0       BUD FORM_COMP          LT LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Local                     0.0   7.0        BUD_FORM COMP         LT LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term local                     0.0   7.0        BUD FORM COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Local                     0.0   7.0        BUD FORM COMP         LT LOCAL-ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local                     0.0   7 .0      BUD7FORM_COMP          LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local                     0.0   7.0        BUD_FORM_COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Trainlng
Trainers of Budget formulation    0.0   0.0         BUD FORM COMP              TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Development of Seminars            10.0   0.0       BUD_FORM COMP            DESGN TRG PROGS EA
Study Tours                       100.0   0.0       BUD FORM COMP             EXTERNAL TRG EA
Subtotal Training                                          -.
Total
2-2 Budget Formulation



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 103. Budget Execution
Detailed Costs
Parameters
Unit                                                __ __ __ _
Cost                                                Phy.
Quantities                   (USS              Base Cost (USS '000)              Cont. For.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1999  1999  Total Rate  Exch.
I. InveStJnt Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget CISPRO        Staffmonth      -    12       6     -      -     -    18      8      -  96.0  48.0      -      -     - 144.0   5.0 100.0
S. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior CLStes        Staffmonth      6    12       8     -      -     -    26   3.5  21.0  42.0  28.0        -      -     -  91.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLStes        Staffmonth       6    12      8     -      -     -    26   3.5  21.0  42.0  28.0         -     -      -  91.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSpro        Staffmonth       6    12    12      -      -     -    30      3  18.0  36.0  36.0       -      -      -  90.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSpro        Staffmonth       -    12      8     -      -     -    20      3      -  36.0  24.0       -     -      -  60.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Junior CLJtes        Staffmonth       3    12      a     -      -     -    23   1.5   4.5  18.0  12.0         -     -      -  34.5   5.0   0.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                          64.5 174.0 128.0       -     -      - 366.5
C. Training
Trainers of Budget Execution   Amount                                                             2.6   2.6   2.6   1.3   1.3        -  10.4   5.0   0.0
Total                                                                                                     67.1 272.6 178.6   1.3   1.3        - 520.9
Thu Nov 10 17:53:44 1994
3-1 Budget Execution



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 103. Budget Execution
Detailed Costs
(in
Gross
Tax                   Summary Divisions
Rate         Component             Expenditure Account
I. Invest_ nt cost.
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget CISPRO         0.0       BUD_EXEC_COMP        LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior CLStes         7.0       BUD EXEC_COMP         LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior CLStes         7.0       BUD EXEC_COMP         LT LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSpro         7.0       BUD EXEC_COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior CLSpro         7.0       BUD_EXEC_COMP         LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior CLJtes         7.0       BUD_EXEC_COMP         LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Training
Trainers of Budget Execution   0.0        BUD_EXEC_COMP              TRG TRGNRS_EA
Total
3-2 Budget Execution



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 104. Program Control and Evaluation
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (USS             Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Zmv.t _ nt Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget                               Staffmonth       -    12      8      -     -      -    20      8      -  96.0  64.0       -      -     - 160.0
S. Local Consultants
Long-term Local Junior                         Staffmonth       -    12    12       -      -     -    24   1.5       -  18.0  18.0       -      -     -  36.0
Long-term Budget                               Staffmonth       4    12    12       -     -      -    28      3  12.0  36.0  36.0        -      -     -  84.0
Long-term Budget                               Staffmonth       -    12    12    12       -      -    36      3      -  36.0  36.0  36.0        -     - 108.0
Long-term Tesoro                               Staffmonth       -    12    12       -      -     -    24      3      -  36.0  36.0       -      -     -  72.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                           12.0 126.0 126.0  36.0        -      - 300.0
C. Trainqn
Trainers of Program Control and Evaluation   Amount                                                                  -  13.5  13.5   9.0   9.0        -  45.0
Total                                                                                                                      12.0 235.5 203.5  45.0   9.0        - 505.0
Thu Nov 10 17:53:48 1994
U4
4-1 Program Control and gvaluation



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 104. Program Control and Evaluation
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in *)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                    Summary Divisions
Rate  Exch. Rate          Component             Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Budget                                5.0 100.0   0.0   PROG CNTL EVAL COMP    LT FOREIGN ADVISORS CONS
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Local Junior                          5.0   0.0   7.0   PROG_CNTL EVAL COMP        LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Budget                                5.0   0.0   7.0   PROG CNTL_EVAL7COMP        LT LOCAL-ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Budget                                5.0   0.0   7.0   PROG CNTLEVALCOMP          LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Tesoro                                5.0   0.0   7.0   PROG_CNTL_EVAL_COMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Training
Trainers of Program Control and Evaluation   5.0   0.0   0.0   PROG_CNTL_EVAL_COMP               TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Total
L4o
4-2 Program Control and Evaluation



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 110. Public Credit System
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (US$             Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
I. Investment Costa
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLdeuda                              Staffmonth       1    12    12       -     -      -    25      3   3.0  36.0  36.0        -     -      -
Long-term Local CLdeuda                              Staffmonth       -    12    12       -     -      -    24      3      -  36.0  36.0       -     -      -
Long-term Informatic                                 Staffmonth       3    12      6      -     -      -    21      2   6.0  24.0  12.0        -     -      -
Long-term Junior CLJdeuda                            Staffmonth      -    12       6      -     -      -    18   1.5       -  18.0   9.0       -     -      -
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                                  9.0 114.0  93.0       -     -      -
B. Service Contract /a
Contract with UNCTAD for Debt Management System   Amount                                                                   - 190.0      -      -     -      -
Contract for Needs Assessment                          Amount                                                          30.0      -      -      -     -      -
Subtotal Service Contract                                                                                                  300 190.0       -      -     -      -
C. Rquipment
Two LANS Installations                                 Amount                                                         150.0      -      -      -     -      -
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                         Amount                                                            2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6        -
Management Training                                    Amount                                                            1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8        -
Trainers of Public Credit System                       Amount                                                          11.7  13.7  12.7   9.9   8.1         -
Study Tours (Development)                              Amount                                                            2.5   5.0   5.0       -     -      -
Subtotal Training                                                                                                          18.6  23.1  22.1  14.3  12.5        -
Total                                                                                                                          207.6 327.1 115.1  14.3  12.5         -
U,
\a Does not include Japanese Grant of S350m for 1995.
Thu Nov 10 17:53:53 1994
5-1 Public Credit System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 110. Public Credit System
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                  Summary Divisions
Total Rate  Exch. Rate          Component          Expenditure Account
I. Inveatment Costs
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLdeuda                              75.0   5.0   0.0   7.0   PUBL CRDT_SYS_COMP   LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local CLdeuda                              72.0   5.0   0.0   7.0   PUBL_CRDT SYS COMP   LT LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Informatic                                 42.0   5.0   0.0   7.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS COMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJdeuda                            27.0   5.0   0.0   7.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS_COMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants                             216.0
S. Service Contract /a
Contract with UNCTAD for Debt Management System 190.0   0.0 100.0   0.0   PUBL CRDT SYS COMP             SERV CONTRCT EA
Contract for Needs Assessment                        30.0   0.0 100.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS_COMP         SERV_CONTRCT.EA
Subtotal Service Contract                              220.0
C. 3quipmnt
Two LANS Installations                              150.0  10.0  80.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS_COMP              HARDWARE
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                       13.0   5.0   0.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS_COMP          TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training                                   9.0   5.0   0.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT SYS COMP           OTHER TRG_EA
Trainers of Public Credit System                     56.1   5.0   0.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT_SYS_COMP          TRG TRGNRS_EA
Study Tours (Development)                            12.5   0.0 100.0   0.0   PUBL_CRDT SYS COMP         EXTERNAL TRG_EA
Subtotal Training                                       90.6
Total                                                       676.6
5-2 Public Credit System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 120. Government Accounting and Treasury
Detailed Costs
Para
Unit
Cost                                                Phy.
Quantities                   (US$             Base Cost (US$ '000)               Cont.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Accounting CISContab    Staffmonth         1    12    12       -     -      -    25      8   8.0  96.0  96.0       -      -     - 200.0   5.0
Long-term Accounting CISContab    Staffmonth         -    12      5      -     -      -    17      8     -  96.0  40.0       -      -     - 136.0   5.0
Long-term Accounting CISContab    Staffmonth         -    12      -      -     -      -    12      8     -  96.0      -      -      -     -  96.0   5.0
Subtotal International Consultants                                                                         8 0 288 0 136.0      -      -     - 432.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior CLJContab           Staffmonth      -      6     -      -     -      -     6   1.5       -   9.0     -      -      -     -   9.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJContab           Staffmonth      -    12    12       -     -      -    24   1.5      -  18. 0  18.0      -      -     -  36.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJContab           Staffmonth      -    12      -      -     -      -    12   1.5      -  18.0      -      -      -     -  18.0   5.0
Short-term Senior CLSContab          Staffmonth      -      3     -      -     -      -      3   3.5     -  10.5       -     -      -     -  10.5   5.0
Long-term Senior CLSContab           Staffmonth      -      6     -      -     -      -     6   3.5      -  21.0      -      -      -     -  21.0   5.0
Long-term Senior CLSContab           Staffmonth      -    12      -      -     -      -    12   3.5      -  42.0       -     -      -     -  42.0   5.0
Long-term Senior CLSContab           Staffmonth      -    12      -      -     -      -    12   3.5      -  42.0      -      -   _        -  42.0   5.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                   - 160.5  18.0      -      -     - 178.5
C. Training
Training of the Trainers               Amount                                                          1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3        -   6.5   5.0
Management Training                    Amount                                                          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0        -   5.0   5.0
Trainers of Government Accounting   Amount                                                                -  70.0  50.0  50.0  50.0       - 220.0   5.0
Seminars Development                   Amount                                                            -  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0        -  48.0   5.0
Study Tours                            Amount                                                            -   8.0   7.0       -      -     -  15.0   0.0 Ln
Subtotal Training                                                                                          2.3  92.3  71.3  64.3  64.3       - 294.5         en
Total                                                                                                          10.3 540.8 225.3  64.3  64.3        - 905.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:00 1994
6-1 Government Accounting and Treasury



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 120. Government Accounting and Treasury
Detailed Costs
meters (in
*)
Gross
For.   Tax                   Summary Divisions
Exch. Rate         Component            Expenditure Account
X Invest_nnt Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Accounting CISContab    100.0   0.0       GOVT ACCTG COMP       LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Accounting CISContab    100.0   0.0       GOVT ACCTG COMP       LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Accounting CISContab    100.0   0.0       GOVT_ACCTG_COMP       LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal International Consultants
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior CLJContab            0.0   7.0     GOVT ACCTG COMP        LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJContab            0.0   7.0     GOVT_ACCTG_COMP        LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior CLJContab            0.0   7.0     GOVT ACCTG COMP        LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Short-term Senior CLSContab           0.0   7.0     GOVT ACCTG COMP         ST LOCAL CONSULTANTS
Long-term Senior CLSContab           0.0   7.0      GOVT ACCTG COMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior CLSContab           0.0   7.0      GOVT ACCTG COMP        LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSContab           0.0   7.0      GOVT_ACCTG_COMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Training
Training of the Trainers             0.0   0.0      GOVT ACCTG COMP            TRG TRGNRS_EA
Management Training                  0.0   0.0      GOVT_ACCTG_COMP             OTHER TRG EA
Trainers of Government Accounting   0.0   0.0       GOVT ACCTG COMP            TRG TRGNRS_EA
Seminars Development                10.0   0.0      GOVT ACCTG COMP          DESGN_TRG PROGS EA
Study Tours                        100.0   0.0      GOVT ACCTG COMP           EXTERNAL TRGEA Gn
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                                      (O
Total
6-2 Government Accounting and Treasury



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 130. Audit of Public Resources
Detailed Costs
Parameters
Unit                                                        %)
Cost                                                 Phy.
Quantities                    (USS             Base Cost (USS '000)                Cont. For.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch.
I. Inveat ent Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Audit CISControl    Staffmonth          6    12      8     -      -      -    26      8  48.0  96.0  64.0        -     -      - 208.0   5.0 100.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Local Consultant    Staffmonth          6    12      8     -      -      -    26      3  18.0  36.0  24.0        -     -      -  78.0   5.0   0.0
C. 3quip nt
Notebook Computers                Computer       40    40      -     -      -      -    80   2.5 100.0 100.0        -      -     -      - 200.0   0.0  80.0
Equipment for CGE
Institutional Strengthening   Amount                                                             25.0 100.0  50.0       -      -      - 175.0   5.0  80.0
Subtotal Zquipment                                                                                    125.0 200.0  50.0       -      -     - 375.0
D. Training
Training of the Trainers           Amount                                                            1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3        -   6.5   5.0   0.0
Management Training                Amount                                                            1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8        -   9.0   5.0   0.0
Trainers of Audit/Control          Amount                                                            1.8   9.6   9.6   7.0   7.0        -  35.0   5.0   0.0
Subtotal Training                                                                                       4.9  12.7  12.7  10.1  10.1        -  50.5
Total                                                                                                      195.9 344.7 150.7  10.1  10.1         - 711.5
Thu Nov 10 17:54:05 1994
U7
-J
7-1 Audit of Public Resources



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 130. Audit of Public Resources
Detailed Costx
(in
Gross
Tax                  Summary Divisions
Rate         Component            Expenditure Account
I. InvesaOnt Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Audit CISControl       0.0  AUDIT_PUBL_RES_CCHP    LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
S. Local Consultants
Long-term Local Consultant       7.0  AUDIT_PUBL_RES_CCMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
C. zquipmnt
Notebook Computers              10.0  AUDIT_PUBL_RES_COMP          OTHER_COMPUTERS
Equipment for CGE
Institutional Strengthening  10.0  AUDIT_PUBL_RES_CCMP           OTHER_COMPUTERS
Subtotal Squipmnt
D. Tr-aning
Training of the Trainers         0.0   AUDIT_PUBL RES COMP          TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training              0.0   AUDIT PUBL_RES COMP           OTHER_TRG_EA
Trainers of Audit/Control        0.0  AUDIT_PUBL_RES_COMP           TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Subtotal Training
Total
7-2 Audit of Public Resources



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 140. Public Contracting
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (US$             Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-Term International Cosultant /a Staffmonth          -      3      -     -      -     -      3    10      -  30.0       -     -      -     -  30.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)          Staffmonth      6      -     -      -      _     _      6      4  24.0      -      -     -      -     -  24.0
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)          Staffmonth      6      -     -      _      _     _      6      4  24.0      -      -     -      -     -  24.0
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)          Staffmonth      6      -     -      _      _     _      6      4  24.0      -      -     -      -     -  24.0
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)          Staffmonth      6      -     -      -      -     -      6      4  24.0      -      -     -      -     -  24.0
Long-term Junior Legal (CLLegal)          Staffmonth      6      -     -      -      _     -      6   1.5   9.0       -      -     -      -     -   9.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                     105.0     -      -      -     -      -105.0
C. Kquipment
Notebook Computers                         Computer       1      -      -     -      -     -      1   2.5   2.5       -      -     -      -      -   2.5
Desktop Computer                           Computer       1      -     -      -      -     -      1   3.5   3.5       -      -     -      -     -   3.5
Fax machine                                  Fax          1      -     -      -      -     -      1   0.6   0.6       -     -      -      -     -   0.6
Copier                                      Copier        1      -     -      -      -     -      1      1   1.0      -      -     -      -      -   1.0
Subtotal lquipment                                                                                               7.6     -      -      -     -      -   7.6
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local              Amount                                                           1.3   1.3   1.3       -      -      -   3.9
Management Training                         Amount                                                           1.8   1.8   1.8       -      -      -   5.4
Trainers of Public Contracting              Amount                                                           3.7   4.2   3.3   0.9        -      -  12.1
Subtotal Training                                                                                                6.8   7.3   6.4   0.9       -      -  21.4
Total                                                                                                               119.4  37.3   6.4   0.9        -      - 164.0
Un
kD
\a 40 Days of Honorarios and Per Diem, and 3 trips.
Thu Nov 10 17:54:10 1994
8-1 Public Contracting



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 140. Public Contracting
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                  Summary Divisions
Rate  Exch. Rate         Component           Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-Term International Cosultant /a   5.0 100.0   0.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP    ST_FOREIGN_CONSULTANTS
D. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)           5.0   0.0   7.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP    LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)           5.0   0.0   7.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP    LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)           5.0   0.0   7.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP    LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior Legal (CLLegal)           5.0   0.0   7.0    PUBLCTRCTG_COMP    LT LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior Legal (CLLegal)           5.0   0.0   7.0    PUBL_CTRCTG_COMP    LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants
C. Zquipment
Notebook Computers                         0.0  80.0  10.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP          OTHER_COMPUTERS
Desktop Computer                           0.0  80.0  10.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP          OTHER COMPUTERS
Fax machine                                0.0  80.0  10.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP    OTHER MINOR_EQUIPMENT
Copier                                     0.0  80.0  10.0    PUBL_CTRCTG_COMP    OTHER_MINOR_EQUIPMENT
Subtotal Equipment
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local             5.0   0.0   0.0    PUBL CTRCTG COMP           TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training                        5.0   0.0   0.0    PUBL_CTRCTG_COMP            OTHER_TRG_EA
Trainers of Public Contracting             5.0   0.0   0.0    PUBL_CTRCTG_COMP           TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Subtotal Training
Total
8-2 Public Contracting



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 150. Payroll and Personnel System
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (USS             Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
X. Investment Costs
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior Admin. CLJAdmtvo            Staffmonth       -    12      -      -     -      -    12   1.5       -  18.0      -      -     -      -  18.0
Long-term  Admin. CLSAdmtvo                  Staffmonth       -    12      3      -     -      -    15   2.5       -  30.0   7.5       -     -      -  37.5
Long-term Local CLSPxx                       Staffmonth       -    12      3      -     -      -    15   2.5       -  30.0   7.5       -     -      -  37.5
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                            -  78.0  15.0       -      -     -  93.0
B. Training
Training of the Trainers                       Amount                                                              -   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6        -  10.4
Management Training                            Amount                                                              -   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9        -   3.6
Trainers of the Payroll/Personnel System   Amount                                                                  -   3.2      -      -      -     -   3.2
Total                                                                                                                       -  84.7  18.5   3.5   3.5        - 110.2
Thu Nov 10 17:54:15 1994
0%
9-1 Payroll and Personnel System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 150. Payroll and Personnel System
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in I)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                  Sumary Divisions
Rate  Exch. Rate         Component          Expenditure Account
I. Investmet Costs
A. Loeal Consultants
Long-term Junior Admin. CLJAdmtvo            5.0   0.0   1.0   PAYR PERS SYS CCMP   LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term  Admin. CLSAdmtvo                  5.0   0.0   7.0   PAYR_PERS SYS CCMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local CLSPxx                       5.0   0.0   7.0   PAYR_PERS_SYS_COMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISoRS_CONS
Subtotal Lacal Consultants
S. Training
Training of the Trainers                     5.0   0.0   0.0   PAYR_PERS_SYS_CCMP          TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training                          5.0   0.0   0.0   PAYR_PERS_SYS_CCMP           OTHER_TRG_EA
Trainers of the Payroll/Personnel System   5.0   0.0   0.0   PAYR_PERS_SYS_COMP            TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Total
9-2 Payroll and Personnel System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 160. SIGEF - Integrated Financial Management System
D.taLled Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (US$                     Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000)  1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
1. InvestAent Coats
A. International Consultanta
Short-term Systems CISInfol          Staffmonth       5     -      -      -     -      -      5     8    40.0         -        -        -       -        -
Long-term Systems CISInfo2           Staffmonth       6    12      4      -     -      -    22    14    84.0   168.0    56.0            -       -        -
Subtotal International Consultants                                                                          124.0   168.0    56.0          -        -       -
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Systems CLSInfol           Staffmonth    12    12    12    12         3      -    51   3.5    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    10.5             -
Long-term Systems CLSInfo2           Staffmonth       7    12    12       7     -      -    38   2.5    17.5    30.0    30.0    17.5            -        -
Long-term Systems CLSInfo3           Staffmonth       7    12    12       7     -      -    38   2.5    17.5    30.0    30.0    17.5            -        -
Long-term Systems CLSInfo4           Staffmonth       7    12    12       7     -      -    38   2.5    17.5   '30.0    30.0    17.5            _        _
Long-term Systems CLSInfo5           Staffmonth       7     5      -      -     -      -    12   2.5    17.5    12.5           -        -       -        -
Long-term Systems CLSInfo6           Staffmonth       7     5      -      -     -      -    12   2.5    17.5    12.5           -        -       -        -
Long-term Systems ENDSist            Staffmonth       7     5      -      -     -      -    12  12.8    89.6    64.0           -        -       -        -
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                  219.1   221.0   132.0    94.5    10.5           -
C. Hardware                                Amount                                                                -   916.3   341.2   457.8 1,134.5           -
D. Software - Operating/Basic             Amount                                                                -   202.8    74.0   130.0   398.5           -
E. Software - Appliations                 Amount                                                                - 1,630.0         -        -        -       -
F. Communications                         Amount                                                                -        -   260.9    53.6   276.0          -
G. Installation and Security               Amount                                                                -   115.6    65.6    81.1   313.1           -
H. IFMS Training                          Amount                                                                 -     2.5   145.9   170.2    80.2          -
I. IF4MS Implementation                   Amount                                                                -        -   127.2    69.3   254.1          -
Total Invest int Costs                                                                                           343.1 3,256.1 1,202.9 1,056.5 2,466.9           -
IX. Rocurrnt Costs
A. IFMS Site Managment and Operation   Amount                                                                    -   120.8   225.2   320.9   582.3           -
B. Communication Lines O&M                Amount                                                                -        -    54.5   127.3   181.8          -
Total P-current Costs                                                                                                -   120.8   279.7   448.2   764.1           -
Total                                                                                                             343.1 3,376.9 1,482.6 1,504.6 3,231.0           -
Thu Nov 10 17:54:20 1994
10-1 SIGEF - Integrated Financial Management System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 160. SIGEF - Integrated Financial Management System
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                        Summary Divisions
Total  Rate  Exch. Rate              Component                 Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-term Systems CISInfol              40.0   5.0 100.0   0.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP           ST_FOREIGN CONSULTANTS
Long-term Systems CISInfo2             308.0   5.0 100.0   0.0           SIGEF_IFMS_COMP          LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal International Consultants         348.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Systems CLSInfol             178.5   5.0   0.0   7.0           SIGEF _IFMS COMP          LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Systems CLSInfo2               95.0   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEF_IFMS_COMP           LT LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Systems CLSInfo3               95.0   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEF_IFMS COMP           LT LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Systems CLSInfo4               95.0   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEF_IFMS COMP           LT LOCAL ADVrSORS CONS
Long-term Systems CLSInfo5               30.0   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP           LT LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Systems CLSInfo6               30.0   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP           LT LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Systems ENDSist               153.6   5.0   0.0   7.0          SIGEFIFMS_COMP            LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants                 677.1
C. Hardware                              2,849.8  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP                   HARDWARE
D. Software - Operating/Basic              805.3  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEFIFMS_COMP             SOFTWARE AND_ADAPTATION
E. Software - Appliations                1,630.0  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEF_IFMS_COMP            SOFTWARE_AND ADAPTATION
F. Communications                          590.5  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP                COMMUNICATIONS
G. Installation and Security               575.4  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEF IFMS_COMP           INSTALLATION_AND SECURITY
H. IFMS Training                           398.9  10.0  10.0   0.0          SIGEF IFMS COMP         IFM SYSTEM RELATED TRAINING
I. IFMS Implementation                     450.6  10.0  80.0  10.0          SIGEF_IFMS_COMP           INSTALLATION_AND_SECURITY                                ON
Total Investment Costs                       8,325.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. IFMS Site Managment and Operation 1,249.2  10.0   0.0  10.0              SIGEF IFMS_COMP           IFMS_SITE_OPERATING_COSTS
B. Communication Lines O&M                 363.6   0.0   0.0  10.0          SIGEF_IFMS_COMP              OPERATING_COSTS_EA
Total Recurrent Costs                        1,612.8
Total                                         9,938.3
10-2 SIGEF - Integrated Financial Management System



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 200. Strengthening of Planning Framework
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                     (USS              Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1991  1996  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
I. Investnt Costs
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior Plan CLSPlan                     Staffmonth       -    12    12    12        -      -    36   3.5        -  42.0  42.0  42.0
Long-term Local MIDEPLAN                          Staffmonth       -    12    12       -      -      -    24   3.5        -  42.0  42.0
Subtotal local Consultants                                                                                                   -  84.0  04.0  42.0        -      -
S. Service Contract /a
Technical Assistance Contract with MIDEPLAN   Amount                                                                      - 100.0      -      -      -      -
C. nupisnt
Desktop conputer                                   Computer        -    20       -     -      -      -    20   3.5        -  70.0      -      -
D. Trning
Training of the Trainers Local                      Almount                                                               -   2.6   2.6   1.3   1.3
Management Training                                 Amount                                                                -   5.4   5.4       -      -
Seminars Development                                Amount                                                                -  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0
Total                                                                                                                              - 274.0 104.0  55.3  13.3         -
\a Does not include Japanese Grant of $150m in 1995.
Thu Nov 10 17:54:25 1994
0n
11-1 Strengthening of Planning Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 200. Strengthening of Planning Framework
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                   Summary Divisions
Total Rate  Exch. Rate           Component           Expenditure Account
I. Investint Costs
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior Plan CLSPlan                  126.0   5.0   0.0   7.0 STRNGTH_PLAN_FRAME_COMP LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Local MIDEPLAN                        84.0   5.0   0.0   7.0 STRNGTH_PLAN_FRAME_COMP LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Local Consultants                        210.0
B. Service Contract /a
Technical Assistance Contract with MIDEPLAN 100.0   5.0 100.0   0.0 STRNGTH_PLAN_FRAME_COMP            SERV_CONTRCT_EA
C. lquipment
Desktop computer                                70.0   0.0  80.0  10.0 STRNGTH_PLAN_FRAME_COMP         OTHER_COMPUTERS
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                   7.8   5.0   0.0   0.0 STRNGTH PLAN FRAME_COMP          TRG TRGNRS EA
Management Training                             10.8   5.0   0.0   0.0 STRNGTH PLAN FRAME_COMP          OTHER TRG EA
Seminars Development                            48.0   5.0  10.0   0.0 STRNGTH_PLAN_FRAME_COMP   DESGN_TRG PROGSLEA
Total                                                   446.6
11-2 Strengthening of Planning Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 201. Decentralization Plan
Detailed Costs
Para
Unit
Cost                                                 Phy.
Quantities                    (US$             Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total  D000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term CISDesc                    Staffmonth       -    12    12       -      -     -    24       8     -  96.0  96.0       -      -     - 192.0   5.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior CLSecon             Staffmonth       -    12    12       -      -     -    24   2.5       -  30.0  30.0       -      -     -  60.0   5.0
Long-term Senior CLSecon             Staffmonth       -    12    12       -     -      -    24   2.5       -  30.0  30.0       -      -     -  60.0   5.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                     -  60.0  60.0      -      -      - 120.0
C. Training
Trainers of Decentralization Plan   Amount                                                              11.0  11.0   5.5   5.5        -     -  33.0   5.0
Total                                                                                                            11.0 167.0 161.5   5.5        -     - 345.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:31 1994
01
-J
12-1 Decentralization Plan



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 201. Decentralization Plan
Detailed Costs
meters (in
I) 
Gross
For.   Tax                   Sumnary Divisions
Exch. Rate         Component            Expenditure Account
1. Invast  nt Costs
A. InteznatIonal Consultants
Long-term CISDeac                  100.0   0.0      DECEN_PLAN_CCHP       LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
S. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior CLSecon             0.0   7.0      DECEN_PLAN_COMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior CLSecon             0.0   7.0      DECEN_PLAN_COMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
subtotal 1ocal Consltants
C. Tzaiang
Trainers of Decentralization Plan   0.0   0.0       DECEN_PLAN_NCCP            TRG_TRGNRS_E-A
Total
01
12-2 Decentralization Plan



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 212. Establishment of the Framework
Detailed Costs
Parameters
Unit                                                 _       )
Cost                                                 Phy.
Quantities                    (US$             Base Cost (USS '000)                Cont. For.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch.
I. Invwtent Costs
A. Local Consultants
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         4    12    12       -      -     -    28       3  12.0  36.0  36.0       -      -      -  84.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12    10       -      -     -    22   2.5       -  30.0  25.0       -      -      -  55.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12    10       -      -     -    22   2.5       -  30.0  25.0       -      -     -  55.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12      8      -      -     -    20   2.5       -  30.0  20.0       -      -      -  50.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12      8      -      -     -    20   2.5       -  30.0  20.0       -      -      -  50.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12      8      -      -     -    20   2.5       -  30.0  20.0       -      -      -  50.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo Staffmonth         -    12      8      -      -     -    20   2.5       -  30.0  20.0       -      -      -  50.0   5.0   0.0
Total                                                                                                    12.0 216.0 166.0       -      -      - 394.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:35 1994
3t
13-1 Establish_ nt of the Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 212. Establishment of the Framework
Detled Cos"
(in
GroJs
Tax                 Suxeary Divisions
Rate        Component          Expenditure Account
X. lmvintmt costs
A.  Xegal Oawltamts
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo   7.0    ESTAB_FRAH_ME COP    LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo   7.0    ESTAB_FRAmE_COmP    LS LOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLS&dmtvo   7.0    ESTAB FRAME COMP    LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Senior CLSad tvo   7.0    ESSABFRAME_CCHP    LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSadetvo   7.0    ESTAB FRAME CCMP    LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSaWdtvo   7.0    ESTAB_FRAME_CGoP    LTSLOCAL_ADWISORS CONS
Long-term Senior CLSadmtvo   7.0    ESTAB_FRAKE_COMP    LTSLOCAL_ADVISORS CONS
13t2 Establishment ofathelFramework
13-2 Establishment of the Framework



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 213. Planning of Reorganizations
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (USS                     Base Cost CUSS '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000)  1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
I. nvestment Costs
A. Small Entitles
Long-term Local Senior Consultants Staffmonth    15    22    30    33            4      -   104   3.2    48.0    70.4    96.0   105.6    12.8             -
D. Wedi= Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants Staffmonth          -    48    24    34    20        -   126   3.2         -   153.6    76.8   108.8    64.0           -
C. Larg Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants Staffmonth          -    13    31    25    19        -    88   3.2         -    41.6    99.2    80.0    60.8           -
Total                                                                                                               48.0   265.6   272.0   294.4   137.6           -
Thu Nov 10 17:54:39 1994
14-1 Planning of Reorganizations



ECUADOR
Hodernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 213. Planning of Reorganizations
Detaild Costs
Parameters (in I)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                  Summary Divisions
Total  Rate  Exch. Rate          Component          Expenditure Account
I. xuesmt Ce sts
Lonq-term Local Senior Consultants   332.8   5.0   0.0   7.0    PLAN_REORG_CC4P           LT LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
C. LIxI Detitles
Long-term Local Senior Consultants   40312   5.0   0.0   7.0    PLAN_REORG_COCP           LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
c.  xar    afutes
Long-tera Local Senior Consultants   281.6   5.0   0.0   7.0    PLAN REORG_CCMP           LT LOCAL ADVISORS CCNS
total                                         1.017.6
14-2 Planning of Reorganizations



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 214. Implementation of Restructuring
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                    (US$                     Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000)  1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
I. Investment Costs
A. Small Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants           Staffmonth    17    25    34    38         4      -   118   3.2    54.4    80.0   108.8   121.6    12.8
B. Mediulm  ntities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants           Staffmonth       -    55    27    39    22        -   143   3.2         -   176.0    86.4   124.8    70.4
C. Large Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants           Staffmonth       -     7    22    14       7      -    50   3.2         -    22.4    70.4    44.8    22.4
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                 Amount                                                              1.3      1.3      1.3        -       -
Management Training                            Amount                                                             -0.9      0.9      0.9        -       -
Trainers of Restructuring Implementation   Amount                                                                 29.5    50.0    29.5          -       -
Seminars Development                           Amount                                                             12.0        -        -        -       -
Study Tours                                    Amount                                                              2.5      2.5        -       -
Subtotal TrainLing                                                                                                   46.2    54.7    31.7          -        -
Total                                                                                                                     100.6   333.1   297.3   291.2   105.6
Thu Nov 10 17:54:43 1994
-J
15-1 Implementation of Restructuring



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 214. Implementation of Restructuring
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Cont. For.   Tax                  Summary Divisions
1999    Total  Rate  Exch. Rate          Component           Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. Small Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants                -   377.6   5.0   0.0   7.0   RESTRCT_IMPL_COMP    LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
B. Medium Entittes
Long-term Local Senior Consultants                -   457.6   5.0   0.0   7.0   RESTRCT_IMPL_COMP    LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
C. Large Entities
Long-term Local Senior Consultants                -   160.0   5.0   0.0   7.0   RESTRCT_IMPL_COMP    LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
D. Training
Training of the Trainers Local                    -      3.9   5.0   0.0   0.0   RESTRCT_IMPL_COMP           TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Management Training                               -      2.7   5.0   0.0   0.0   RESTRCT IMPL COMP            OTHER TRG_EA
Trainers of Restructuring Implementation          -   109.0   5.0   0.0   0.0   RESTRCT_IMPL_COMP            TRG_TRGNRS_EA
Seminars Development                              -    12.0   5.0  10.0   0.0   RESTRCT IMPL COMP          DESGN TRG PROGS _A
Study Tours                                       -      5.0   0.0 100.0   0.0   RESTRCT_IMPLCOMP           EXTERNAL_TRG_EA
Subtotal Tralining                                   -   132.6
Total                                                      - 1,127.8
-
15-2 Implementation of Restructuring



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 220. Coordination of Public Sector Training
Detailed Costs
Para
Unit
Cost                                                  Phy.
Quantities                     (US$              Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont.
Unit     1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate
I. Imestint Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Senior CIScop              Staffmonth       -    12    12    12         -     -    36       5      -  60.0  60.0  60.0        -      - 180.0   5.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12    12         -     -    36   1.5        -  18.0  18.0  18.0        -      -  54.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   1.5       -  18.0  18.0   9.0         -     -  45.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   1.5       -  18.0  18.0   9.0         -     -  45.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   1.5       -  18.0  18.0   9.0         -     -  45.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   0.8       -   9.6'  9.6   4.8         -     -  24.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   0.8       -   9.6   9.6   4.8         -     -  24.0   5.0
Long-term Junior CLJcop              Staffmonth       -    12    12        6      -      -    30   0.8       -   9.6   9.6   4.8         -     -  24.0   5.0
Subtotal Local Consultants                                                                                       - 100.8 100.8  59.4        -      - 261.0
C. Training
Training Coordination                  Amount                                                              6.0   2.0       -      -      -     -   8.0   5.0
D  Voucher System
Design of Training - Local             Amount                                                              1.6      -      -      -      -     -   1.6   5.0
Design of Training International   Amount                                                                  1.4   1.0       -      -     -      -   2.4   5.0
Subtotal Voucher System                                                                                        3.0   1.0      -      -      -      -   4.0
Total                                                                                                               9.0 163.8 160.8 119.4         -      - 453.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:48 1994
Ln
16-1 Coordination of Public Sector Training



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 220. Coordination of Public Sector Training
Detailed Costs
meters (in
Gross
For.   Tax                   Summary Divisions
Exch. Rate         Component            Expenditure Account
I. Invstment Costs
A. International Consultants
Long-term Senior CIScop           100.0   0.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP    LT_FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG COMP       LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRGCOMP        LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term Junior CLJcop             0.0   7.0   COORD_PUBL7TRG-COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal 1ocal Consultants
C. Training
Training Coordination               0.0   0.0   COORD_PUBL_TRG_COMP            OTHER_TRG_EA
D. Voucher Systin
Design of Training - Local         10.0   0.0   COORD PUBL TRG CCMP         DESGN TRG PROGS EA
Design of Training International 100.0   0.0   COORD_PUBLTRG_CCOP           DESGN_TRG_PROGS EA
Subtotal Voucher Syste                                                                                                                                 Co
Total
16-2 Coordination of Public Sector Training



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 300. Definition of the Role of the State
Detailed Costs
Parameters
Unit                                                          l)
Cost                                                  Phy.
Quantities                     (US$              Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont. For.
Unit     1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch.
I. Imrest.nt Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-term Intl Consultant Staffmonth           -     3      -      -      -      -      3      8     -  24.0       -      -      -      -  24.0   5.0 100.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLJMod        Staffmonth        -    12      -      -      -      -    12   1.5       -  18.0       -      -      -      -  18.0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Local CLSMod        Staffmonth        -    12      -      -      -      -    12   2.5       -  30.0       -      -      -      -  30.0   5.0   0.0
Total                                                                                                           -  72.0      -      -      -      -  72.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:53 1994
17-1 Definition of the Role of the State



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Asnistance Project
Table 300. Definition of the Role of the State
Detailed costs
(in
Gross
Tax                 Sumnary Divisions
Rate        Component           Expenditure Account
I. Invws   nt Costs
A. Xnternatlanal Consultants
Short-term Intl Consultant   0.0  DEF_ROLE_STATE_COMP   ST_FOREIGN_CONSULTANTS
S. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLJHod         7.0  DEF ROLE STATE COMP   LT LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local CLSMod         7.0  DEF_ROLE_STATE_COMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Total
17-2 Definition of the Role of the State



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 310. Decentralization Policy
Detailed Costs
Parameters
Unit                                                          t
Cost                                                  Phy.
Quantities                     (US$              Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont. For.
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch.
I. Inmestflt Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-term International  Staffmonth          -      1      -      -      -      -      1     8      -   8.0       -      -     -      -   8.0   5.0 100.0
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLJMod    Staffmonth          -    10       -      -      -      -    10   1 5       -  15.0       -      -     -      -  15 0   5.0   0.0
Long-term Local CLSMod    Staffmonth          -    10       -      -      -     -    10   2.5        -  25.0       -      -     -      -  25.0   5.0   0.0
Total                                                                                                         -  48.0       -      -      -     -  48.0
Thu Nov 10 17:54:58 1994
-D i
18-1 Decentralization Policy



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 310. Decentralization Policy
Detailed Costs
(in
Gross
Tax                 Summary Divisions
Rate         Component          Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. International Consultants
Short-term International    0.0        DECEN_POL_COMP       ST_FOREIGN_CONSULTANTS
B. Local Consultants
Long-term Local CLJMod        7.0      DECEN POL COMP       LT_LOCAL ADVISORS CONS
Long-term Local CLSMod        7.0      DECEN_POL COMP       LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Total
CO
18-2 Decentralization Policy



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 320. Dissemination
Detailed Costs
Unit                                                   Parameters (in %)
Cost                                                   Phy.         Gross
Quantities                     (USS              Base Cost (US$ '000)                Cont. For.   Tax
Unit     1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000) 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
Consultant Services Staffmonth          -    28      6      6      -      -    40   9.5       - 266.0  57.0  57.0         -      - 380.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total                                                                                               - 266.0  57.0  57.0        -      - 380.0
Thu Nov 10 17:55:01 1994
19-1 Dissemination



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 320. Dissemination
Detailed Costs
Summary Divisions
Component    _    Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
Consultant Services DISSEMINATION_COMP LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Total
00
N)
19-2 Dissemination



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Pro3ect
Table 330. Project Audit
Detailed Costs
Unit                                                 Parameters (in %)
Cost                                                 Phy.         Gross
Quantities           -o       (US$             Base Cost (US$ '000)                Coot. For.   Tax
-Unit  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Ttal  000) 199/4  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Auditing of Project Accounts Amount                                                              -  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  50.0 150.0   0.0   0.0   7.0
Total                                                                                                     -  25.0  25.0  2_5.0 2-5.0 50-. 0 1 50. 0
Thu Nov 10 17:55:04 1994
20-1 Project Audit



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 330. Project Audit
Detailed Costs
Summary Divisions
Component          Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. Auditing of Project Accounts   PROJECT_AUDIT_COMP   LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Total
OD
Jt."
20-2 Project Audit



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 340. Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinacion del Proyecto)
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantities                     (US$                      Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit     1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total '000)  1994            1995    1996    1997    1998
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Coordination and Management
PCU Coordinador Tecnico                        Staffmonth      12    12    12    12    12          -    60    12   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0
Long-term International Senior                 Staffmonth       -    12    12    12         -      -    36      6        -    72.0    72.0    72.0            -
Coordinators Local Senior                      Staffmonth      72    72    72    72    36          6   330   3.5   252.0   252.0   252.0   252.0   126.0
Consultores Locales                            Staffmonth      36    48    48    36    12          6   186   1.5    54.0    72.0    72.0    54.0    18.0
Subtotal Project Coordination and Hanagement                                                                             450.0   540.0   540.0   522.0   288.0
B. Incremental Yquipment Needs
Equipo de oficina                                Amount                                                               92.3    13.3    29.3    17.3          2.3
Computadores                                      Amount                                                               5.0         -    25.0         -        -
Training Equipment                                Amount                                                              48.0    70.0    20.0           -        -
Subtotal Incremental lquip ent Needs                                                                                     145.3    83.3    74.3    17.3         2.3
C. Training
International Consultants                      Staffmonth        -    12    12       -      -      -    24      8         -    96.0    96.0          -        -
Local Senior Consultants                       Staffmonth        -    12    12       -      -      -    24       3        -    36.0    36.0          -        -
Subtotal Training                                                                                                            -   132.0   132.0           -       -
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                       595.3   755.3   746.3   539.3   290.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff                                 Amount                                                               21.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0
B. Costos de Operacion                               Amount                                                              107.5    60.0    50.0       40.0    50.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                        128.5   102.0    92.0    82.0    92.0
Total                                                                                                                         723.8   857.3   838.3   621.3   382.3
Thu Nov 10 17:55:08 1994
2U
21-1 Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinacion del Proyecto)



ECUADOR
Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
Table 340. Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinacion del Proyecto)
Detailed Costs
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Corit. For.   Tax                     Summary Divisions
1999    Total  Rate  Exch. Rate              Component              Expenditure Account
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Coordination and Management
PCU Coordinador Tecnico                               -   720.0   0.0 100.0   0.0              PCU COMP            LT FOREIGN_ADVISORS_CONS
Long-term International Senior                         -   216.0   0.0 100.0   0.0              PCU COMP           LT FOREIGN ADVISORS CONS
Coordinators Local Senior                          21.0 1,155.0   0.0   0.0   7.0               PCU COMP            LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Consultores Locales                                 9.0   279.0   0.0   0.0   7.0               PCU_COMP            LT_LOCAL_ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Project Coordination and Management    30.0 2,370.0
B. Incremental Equipment Needs
Equipo de oficina                                      -   154.3  10.0  80.0  10.0              PCU COMP            OTHER MINOR EQUIPMENT
Computadores                                          -    30.0  10.0  80.0  10.0               PCU_COMP               OTHER COMPUTERS
Training Equipment                                     -   138.0   5.0  80.0  10.0              PCU_COMP            OTHER_MINOR EQUIPMENT
Subtotal Incremental Equipment Needs                      -   322.3
C. Training
International Consultants                             -   192.0   5.0 100.0   0.0              PCU COMP            LT FOREIGN ADVISORS CONS
Local Senior Consultants                              -    72.0   5.0   0.0   7.0              PCU_COMP             LT_LOCAL ADVISORS_CONS
Subtotal Training                                         -   264.0
Total Investment Costs                                     30.0 2,956.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff                                   21.0   210.0   0.0   0.0   7.0              PCU COMP               SEC ADMIN_SUPP_EA
B. Costos de Operacion                                    -   307.5   0.0   0.0  10.0              PCU_COMP              OPERATING_COSTS_EA
Total Recurrent Costs                                      21.0   517.5
Total                                                       51.0 3,473.8
02
21-2 Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinacion del Proyecto)



