Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3822 EC
                          Loan Agreement
     (Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 10, 1995
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3822 EC
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
   AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
   WHEREAS: (A) the National Congress of the Borrower passed a
law on public sector budgets (the Budget Law) published in the
Registro Oficial No. 76 on November 30, 1992 which, together
with the regulations published in Registro Oficial No. 136
(second supplement) on February 26, 1993, sets forth the
general rules for the programming, formulation, approval,
execution, control, evaluation and liquidation of the
Borrower's public sector  budgets;
   (B)   the National Congress of the Borrower passed a law on
the modernization of the state, privatization and provision of
public services by private enterprises (the Modernization of
the State Law) published in the Registro Oficial No. 349 on
December 31, 1993 which, together with the regulations
published in Registro Oficial No. 411 (supplement) on March 31,
1994, sets forth the general rules for: (1) rationalization and
administrative efficiency of the Borrower's public sector; (2)
decentralization, deconcentration and simplification of the
Borrower's public sector; (3) provision of public services by
private enterprises; and (4) divestment of the state's
participation in public enterprises;
Page  2
   (C)   Article 8 of the Modernization of the State Law created
CONAM (as hereinafter defined) as the public sector entity in
charge of managing, coordinating and supervising the
modernization process provided by such Law;
   (D)   Article 2 of the Modernization of the State Law
provides that such law will be applicable to all agencies of
the Borrower and to any Ecuadoran public sector entity;
   (E)   by agreement dated December 27, 1994 (the Japanese
Grant Agreement), the Government of Japan (Japan) has agreed to
make a grant (the Japanese Grant) to the Borrower in an
aggregate amount equivalent to 59,900,000 yen to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Japanese Grant Agreement;
   (F)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
   WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
   NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
   Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
   (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
   (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
              "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
         under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
         would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
         III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
   Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
   (a)   "Acquisitions Committee" means the committee referred
to in Section 3.05 (a) (iv) of this Agreement;
   (b)   "Administrative Coordination Group" means the group
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
   (c)   "Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred
to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement;
   (d)   "BCE" means Banco Central del Ecuador, the Borrower's
Central Bank;
   (e)   "CGE" means Contraloria General del Estado, the
Borrower's Controller General's Office;
   (f)   "CONADE" means Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo, the
Borrower's National Development Council;
   (g)   "CONAM" means Consejo Nacional de Modernizacion del
Estado, the Borrower's National Council of Modernization of the
Page  3
State;
   (h)   "Core Executing Agencies" means the following Executing
Agencies (as hereinafter defined): BCE, CGE, CONAM, SENDA (as
hereinafter defined) and SGP (as hereinafter defined);
   (i)   "EMETEL" means Empresa Ecuatoriana de
Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's Telecommunications Company;
   (j)   "EMETEL Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.02 (d);
   (k)   "Executing Agency" means any Public Sector Entity (as
hereinafter defined) that has entered into a Participation
Arrangement (as hereinafter defined) or a Restructuring
Agreement (as hereinafter defined), as the case may be;
   (l)   "Implementation Program" means the program set forth in
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 1);
   (m)   "Informatics Commission" means the commission referred
to in Section 3.05 (a) (iii) of this Agreement;
   (n)   "MFCP" means Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico,
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
   (o)   "Operating Manual" means the Borrower's manual for the
operation of the Project, dated December 2, 1994;
   (p)   "Participation Arrangement" means any of the
arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 (b);
   (q)   "Project Coordinator" means any of the coordinators
referred to in Section 3.05 (e) (i) (A) of this Agreement;
   (r)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter from the Bank dated March 5, 1993,
countersigned by the Borrower on March 11, 1993, as amended;
   (s)   "Project Unit" means the group referred to in Section
3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
   (t)   "Public Sector Entity" means any agency of the Borrower
or any Ecuadoran public sector entity referred to in Article
128 of the Borrower's Constitution;
   (u)   "Restructuring Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.02 (c);
   (v)   "SENDA" means Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo
Administrativo, the Borrower's National Secretariat of
Administrative Development;
   (w)   "SGP" means Secretaria General de Planificacion, the
Borrower's General Secretariat of Planning;
   (x)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
   (y)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
   (z)   "Training Program" means the program set forth in the
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 2); and
   (aa)  "Twinning Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.02 (e).
                            ARTICLE II
Page  4
                             The Loan
   Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty million Dollars
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
   Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
   (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account either: (i)
in BCE, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; or
(ii) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
   (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
   Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
   Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
   Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
   (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
   (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
              on the date immediately preceding each date
              specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
              beginning with the Interest Period in which this
              Agreement is signed.
        (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
              cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
              and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
              the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
Page  5
              drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
              such borrowings or portions thereof as the
              Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
              investments; and (B) loans which may be
              made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
              interest rates determined otherwise than as
              provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
      (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
              the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
              "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
         principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
         from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
         the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
         of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
         (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
         2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
         accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
         preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
         applicable during such Interest Period."
              "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
         Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
         of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
         Quarter."
              "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
         commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
         in a calendar year."
   Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
   Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
   Section 2.08. The Executive Director of CONAM or any person
designated by him or her in writing is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
   Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and managerial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
   (b)   The Borrower shall:
         (i)  take or cause to be taken all action, including
              the provision of funds, facilities, services and
              other resources, necessary or appropriate to
              enable the Executing Agencies to participate in
              the carrying out of the Project; and
        (ii)  not take or permit to be taken any action
              which would prevent or interfere with the partici-
              pation of the Executing Agencies in the
Page  6
              carrying out of the Project.
   (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Annual Operating Plans, the
Implementation Program and the Operating Manual.
   (d)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall allocate in each of
its annual budgets, and make available promptly as needed, the
counter- part funds required for Project implementation as
provided in the Annual Operating Plan for the respective year.
   (e)   By no later than thirty (30) days after the Effective
Date, the Borrower shall:
         (i)  open and thereafter maintain, until completion of
              the Project, a deposit account in a bank, under
              terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
              for purposes of managing the counterpart funds
              referred to in subparagraph (d) above;
         (ii) make and initial deposit in the account referred
              to in subparagraph (i) above for an amount
              equivalent to $250,000.
   Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement
with CONAM, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including the following terms and conditions:
         (i)  the transfer to CONAM of part of the proceeds of
              the Loan allocated from time to time to the
              Categories set forth in the table in Paragraph 1
              of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the
              counterpart funds required for the implementation
              of the Project;
         (ii) CONAM's overall coordination of the execution of
              the Project; and
       (iii)  CONAM's obligation to take all actions
              necessary or appropriate to enable the
              Borrower to comply with its obligations
              under this Agreement.
   (b)   The Borrower, through MFCP, shall enter into
arrangements providing for the participation of any interested
Public Sector Entity in the execution of Part A of the Project,
such arrangements to contain provisions satisfactory to the
Bank, including, inter alia:
         (i)  appropriate provisions for the operation,
              maintenance and repairs of the informatic
              equipment financed out of the proceeds of the
              Loan and the training of the respective Entity's
              personnel; and
         (ii) provisions whereby MFCP shall avail of the powers
              conferred by the Budget Law to reject the budget
              proposal of the respective Entity in any event of
              non-compliance by such Entity under the
              corresponding arrangements.
   (c)   The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM enters into
agreements with other interested Public Sector Entities,
providing for the restructuring of such Entities under Part B.2
(c) of the Project and containing terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including provisions whereby such
Entity shall prepare and, upon CONAM's approval, carry out a
financing plan to cover employees' departure costs (including
severance payments) and remuneration enhancements of the
Page  7
remaining personnel.
   (d)   The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM enters into an
agreement with EMETEL, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, for the purposes of the operation, maintenance and
repairs, in accordance with appropriate technical standards, of
the communications infrastructure required for the functioning
of the information systems financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
   (e)   The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with the Ministry of
Planning of the Republic of Chile, for the purposes of
strengthening SGP's strategic planning activities.
   (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement, the EMETEL Agreement and the Twinning
Agreement, and shall enforce the provisions of the
Participation Arrangements, in such a manner as to:
         (i)  protect the interests of the Borrower and the
              Bank;
         (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
              and
       (iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
   (g)   The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM exercises its
rights and comply with its obligations under the Restructuring
Agreements, in such a manner as to:
         (i)  protect the interests of the Borrower and the
              Bank;
         (ii) comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary
              Agreement; and
       (iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
   Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
   Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
   (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
   (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
   (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
   Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that CONAM will maintain, until
completion of the Project:
         (i)  a Project unit, responsible for overseeing the
              implementation of the Project by the Executing
              Agencies and making policy recommendations to
              CONAM;
         (ii) an administrative coordination group, respon-
Page  8
              sible for the coordination of procurement and
              disbursements to be carried out under the Project
              and the administration of related records,
              accounts and audits, pursuant to Section 4.01 of
              this Agreement;
       (iii)  an informatics commission, responsible for
              the development and implementation of the
              Borrower's informatics plan; and
         (iv) an acquisitions committee, responsible for
              approving bidding documents and contracts for
              goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
              Loan, as provided in paragraph 2 of Section IV of
              Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
   (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Unit, the
Administrative Coordination Group, the Informatics Commission
and the Acquisitions Committee are, at all times until
completion of the Project, staffed by professionals, with
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified personnel in
adequate numbers.
   (c)   The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM retains, within
its administrative unit, until completion of the Project, a
procurement advisor, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, such coordinator:
         (i)  to assist the Administrative Coordination Group
              in the coordination of the procurement to be
              carried out under the Project; and
         (ii) to train such Unit's staff on procurement matters
              relevant for the Project.
   (d)   The Borrower shall ensure that CONAM provides, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the discharge of the functions of the Project
Unit, the Administrative Coordination Group, the Informatics
Commission and the Acquisitions Committee.
   (e)   The Borrower shall cause each Executing Agency:
         (i)  to appoint and retain, until completion of the
              Project:
              (A)   Project coordinators with qualifications,
                    experience, functions and responsibilities
                    satisfactory to the Bank; and
              (B)   qualified staff in adequate numbers, as
                    counterparts of the consultants employed
                    under the Project; and
         (ii) to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
              facilities, services and other resources required
              for the discharge of the functions of the Project
              coordinators.
   Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that all the
Executing Agencies, other than CONAM, shall, in accordance with
the Annual Operating Plan:
         (i)  prepare and furnish to the Project Unit the
              information required for the reports referred to
              in Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and
         (ii) coordinate with the Administrative Coordination
              Group the procurement of goods and the selection
              of consultants to be financed out of the proceeds
              of the Loan, under their corresponding
Page  9
              Participation Arrangements or Restructuring
              Agreements.
   Section 3.07. With regard to the services of the consultants
to be hired under the Project in accordance with the respective
Annual Operating Plan, the Borrower shall and shall ensure that
the Core Executing Agencies:
   (a)   promptly after the completion of each service, furnish
to the Bank copy of the consultants' findings and
recommendations;
   (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings and recommendations; and
   (c)   review and implement, as the case may be, the
recommendations of such consultants, taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
   Section 3.08. With regard to the training programs to be
carried out under the Project in accordance with the respective
Annual Operating Plan, the Borrower shall, and shall ensure
that the Core Executing Agencies:
   (a)   furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the contents,
schedule and selection criteria of the respective programs;
   (b)   carry out such training programs in accordance with the
contents, schedule and selection criteria approved by the Bank;
and
   (c)   furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of
each such training program and the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
   Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, by no
later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31, of
each year, during the execution of the Project, starting on
April 30, 1995, the Borrower shall ensure that CONAM, through
the Project Unit, shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, a report on the progress achieved in the execution of
the Project, with regard to the quarters ending December 31,
March 31, June 30 and September 30, respectively, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
   (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the progress reports,
referred to in paragraph (a) above and to be furnished by no
later than October 31 of each year of Project execution, will
also include an annual operating plan for the implementation of
the Project by the Core Executing Agencies during the upcoming
calendar year, such plan to comprise:
         (i)  the main activities to be carried out under the
              Project during the respective year;
         (ii) the objectives, expected results or outputs of
              such activities;
       (iii)  the corresponding cost estimates and
              budgets, including counterpart funds;
         (iv) the respective evaluation criteria and
              performance indicators;
         (v)  the relevant institutional arrangements and
              responsibilities; and
         (vi) the timetables for implementation,
   all in accordance with the Implementation Program and the
Page  10
Operating Manual.
   (c)   Upon the Bank's approval, the Borrower shall, and shall
ensure that the Core Executing Agencies, carry out such Annual
Operating Plan in accordance with its terms.
   Section 3.10. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower and CONAM, through the Project Unit, shall, by no
later than November 30, 1996, review in conjunction with the
Bank the overall progress achieved in the implementation of the
Project, such review:
         (i)  to be based on the progress reports referred to
              in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the
              Implementation Program and the Operating Manual;
              and
         (ii) to include an assessment of:
              (A)   the compliance of the Borrower's
                    obligations set forth or referred to in
                    this Agreement; and
              (B)   the available findings and recommendations
                    of the consultants hired under the Project.
   (b)   If, as a result of the above review, the Bank
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or
in the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the
Borrower shall, and shall ensure that the Executing Agencies,
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project
or the general achievement of its objectives.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
   Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
   (b)   The Borrower shall:
         (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
              paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
              the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
              in accordance with appropriate auditing
              principles consistently applied, by independent
              private auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
              any case not later than four months after the end
              of each such year, the report of such audit by
              said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
              as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
              concerning said records and accounts and
              the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
              time to time reasonably request.
   (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
              separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  11
         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
              has received the audit report for the fiscal year
              in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
              Account or payment out of the Special Account was
              made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
              such expenditures;
       (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
              examine such records; and
         (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
              included in the annual audit referred to in
              paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
              of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
              auditors as to whether the statements of
              expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
              together with the procedures and internal
              controls involved in their preparation, can be
              relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
   Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
   (a)   the Modernization of the State Law or the Budget Law or
their corresponding regulations or any provision thereof, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower or any of the Executing
Agencies to perform any of their respective obligations or
undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the
Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation Arrangements, the
Restructuring Agreements, the EMETEL Agreement or the Twinning
Agreement, as the case may be;
   (b)   the Borrower or any of the Executing Agencies shall
have failed to perform any of their respective obligations or
undertakings under the Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation
Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements, the EMETEL
Agreement or the Twinning Agreement, as the case may be;
   (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower of any
of the Executing Agencies will be able to perform their
respective obligations or undertakings under the Subsidiary
Agreement, the Participation Arrangements, the Restructuring
Agreements, the EMETEL Agreement or the Twinning Agreement, as
the case may be;
   (d)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BCE, CONAM or
EMETEL or for the suspension of its operations so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely, the
ability of the Borrower, BCE, CONAM or EMETEL to perform any of
their respective obligations or undertakings under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Participation
Arrangements, the Restructuring Agreements or the Agreement, as
the case may be;
   (e)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
              the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
              proceeds of the Japanese Grant shall have been
              suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
              part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
Page  12
         (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
              apply if the Borrower establishes to the
              satisfaction of the Bank that:
              (A)   such suspension, cancellation or
                    termination is not caused by the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such Agreement; and
              (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions consistent
                    with the obligations of the Borrower under
                    this Agreement.
   Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
   (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
   (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
   Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
   (a)   that BCE, CGE, CONAM, SENDA and SGP shall have entered
into their respective Participation Arrangements; and
   (b)   that the Borrower, through MFCP, shall have entered
into the Subsidiary Agreement.
   Section 6.02. The date May 11, 1995 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
   Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
   Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
   For the Borrower:
         Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
         Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
         Quito, Ecuador
         Cable address:                   Telex:
              MINFINANZAS                   22358 MINFIN-ED
              Quito, Ecuador
   For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  13
         United States of America
         Cable address:                   Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
              Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                    By /s/ Edgar Teran Teran
                                          Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                    Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.       The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated               % of
                                (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'                   9,200,000          100%
     services
(2)  Goods                          5,900,000          90% of foreign
                                                       expenditures and
                                                       60% of local
                                                       expenditures
(3) Training                          700,000          60% of foreign
                                                       expenditures and
                                                       60% of local
                                                       expenditures
(4) Incremental                       700,000          60%, until with-
    Operating                                          drawals under
    Costs                                              this Category
                                                       have reached an
                                                       aggregate amount
                                                       equivalent to
                                                       $500,000; and 30%,
                                                       thereafter
Page  14
(5) Refunding of                    1,500,000          Amounts due
    Project                                            pursuant to
    Preparation                                        Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                            of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                     2,000,000
        TOTAL                      20,000,000
2.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
   (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
   (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
   (c)   the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of the
Acquisitions Committee, the Administrative Coordination Group,
the Informatics Commission and the Project Unit, including: (i)
office supplies; (ii) services rendered by public utilities;
(iii) operation and maintenance of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (iv) domestic and international
travels and per diems of their personnel, required for the
execution of the Project; and
   (d)   the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of
trainers; (ii) domestic and international travel and per diems
of trainers and trainees; and (iii) training materials.
3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
   (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (4) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1 on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after July 1, 1994;
   (b)   payments made with respect to the implementation of
Part A of the Project by an Executing Agency (other than those
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement), unless the
Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Participation Arrangement with the respective Executing Agency
(other than those referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement) has been entered into;
   (c)   payments made with respect to the implementation of
Part B.2 (c) of the Project by an Executing Agency, unless the
Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Restructuring Agreement with the respective Executing Agency
has been entered into; and
   (d)   payments made with respect to the implementation of
Part B.1 of the Project, unless the Bank has received evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Twinning Agreement has been
executed by the parties thereto.
4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures:
   (a)   for goods under contracts not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000;
   (b)   for the services of consulting firms under contracts
Page  15
not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000; and
   (c)        for the services of individual consultants under
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $30,000;
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
   The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the frame-
work, procedures and systems for the Borrower's public sector
financial management and control; (b) lay the strategic
foundations and provide initial support for the restructuring
of the Borrower's public sector, creating the basis for greater
administrative efficiency and operational effectiveness; and
(c) provide efficiency, sustainability and transparency to the
Borrower's public sector reforms efforts.
   The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Public Financial Management and Control
1. Budget and Treasury System
   Establishment of the Borrower's new budget system, aimed at
achieving better macroeconomic, operational and financial
management, through development and installation of:
   (a)   a medium-term budget system, enabling the projection of
medium-term income and expenditures and the linking of the
budget process with medium-term investments in the context of
a multi-year budget;
   (b)   an integrated budget structure for Public Sector
Entities, featuring quantified program objectives, financial
projections of revenues and expenditures in a cash budget, and
limited used of earmarked funds;
   (c)   a system to manage and supervise budget execution, for
the support of program management and accountability, including
the corresponding normative manuals and accounting procedures
that allow payments to be made through the banking system;
   (d)   a budget control and evaluation system, covering all
financial transactions and investments of selected Public
Sector Entities; and
   (e)   a system to manage and supervise modernization funds to
support investments in social development.
2. Public Credit System
   Modernization of the Borrower's public debt management,
through introduction of appropriate systems.
3. Accounting and Treasury
   Development and implementation of an accounting system as
the basis for effective control of the Borrower's financial
resources and timely auditing of related transactions,
including:
   (a)   installation of a budgetary accounting and reporting
subsystem, with decentralized operations;
   (b)   delimitation of functions and authority on accounting
operations; and
Page  16
   (c)   functional reorganization and professional
strengthening of the units responsible for accounting.
4. Audit of Public Resources
   Improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of audits,
as a service to the management of Public Sector Entities.
5. Public Contracting
   Preparation of a new Public Contracting Law and the
corresponding rules and procedures.
6. Payroll and Personnel Systems
   Modernization of the Borrower's personnel management and
salary payment functions, through:
   (a)   introduction of efficient processes for personnel
management;
   (b)   creation of technical procedures for the revision of
salaries;
   (c)   standardization of administrative functions;
   (d)   strengthening of administrative efficiency; and
   (e)   integration of payroll and personnel systems in the
system financed under Part A.7 (a) of the Project.
7. Integration of Information Systems
   (a)   Development and implementation of a modern informatics
plan for the Borrower's integrated system of financial
management, including the integration of the systems financed
under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and A.6 of the Project.
   (b)   Installation of bridge systems for budget, treasury,
accounting, audits and payroll and personnel management
functions.
Part B:  Public Sector Modernization
1. Strengthening of the Planning Framework
   Development of the Borrower's medium-term planning system
for a market economy with reduced state intervention, that
provides the basis for strategic management of the Borrower's
developmental efforts, such system to include:
   (a)   an effective linkage between the budget process and
macroeconomic policy-making;
   (b)   a strengthened decentralized planning network; and
   (c)   an effective subsystem for investment projects'
programming and monitoring.
2. Restructuring and Management Strengthening
   (a)   Decentralization of the Borrower's public sector
management, based upon economic and administrative efficiency
criteria, through:
         (i)  development of a deconcentration strategy for
              centrally managed activities;
              (ii)  development of a regionalization strategy,
                    for the devolution or assignment of
                    functional responsibility and authority to
                    sectional levels of the Borrower's
Page  17
                    administration;
             (iii)  development of a participation strategy, for
                    the strengthening of democratic processes
                    through broader citizen participation; and
              (iv)  preparation of the Borrower's national
                    decentralization plan.
   (b)   Carrying out and dissemination of a census of the
Borrower's public employees.
   (c)   Restructuring of selected Public Sector Entities, aimed
at achieving increased efficiency in the provision of public
services.
   (d)   Evaluation of the progress and impact of the
restructuring process financed under Part B.2 (c) of the
Project, through a computerized system.
3. Public Sector Training
   (a)   Establishment of procedures to streamline and support
the coordination of training offered by Public Sector Entities.
   (b)   Design and implementation of specific training programs
required for the implementation of other Parts of the Project.
Part C:  Coordination of the Reform Program
1. Definition of the Role of the State
   Development of a macroinstitutional policy reflecting a
broad consensus on the role of the state.
2. Decentralization Policy
   Development of a general decentralization policy that
provides guidance for the execution of Part B.2 (a) of the
Project.
3. Dissemination
   Carrying out of dissemination programs on the progress and
benefits of Project implementation.
4. Project Accounts and Audits
   Establishment and operation of an accounting and auditing
plan.
5. Project Management
   Operation of the Project implementation bodies referred to
in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement.
                               * * *
   The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in Dollars)*
August 1, 2000                            385,000
February 1, 2001                          400,000
August 1, 2001                            410,000
Page  18
February 1, 2002                          425,000
August 1, 2002                            440,000
February 1, 2003                          455,000
August 1, 2003                            475,000
February 1, 2004                          490,000
August 1, 2004                            510,000
February 1, 2005                          525,000
August 1, 2005                            545,000
February 1, 2006                          565,000
August 1, 2006                            585,000
February 1, 2007                          605,000
August 1, 2007                            625,000
February 1, 2008                          650,000
August 1, 2008                            670,000
February 1, 2009                          695,000
August 1, 2009                            720,000
February 1, 2010                          745,000
August 1, 2010                            770,000
February 1, 2011                          800,000
August 1, 2011                            830,000
February 1, 2012                          855,000
August 1, 2012                            890,000
Feburary 1, 2013                          920,000
August 1, 2013                            950,000
Feburary 1, 2014                          985,000
August 1, 2014                           1,020,000
Feburary 1, 2015                         1,060,000
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
   determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
   General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
   Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
   Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                 The interest rate (expressed
                                 as a percentage per annum)
                                 applicable to the Loan
                                 on the day of prepayment
                                 multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
   before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
   not more than six years
   before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
   more than 16 years
   before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
   more than 18 years
   before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
   maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  19
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  Limited International Bidding
1. Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures, on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of qualified suppliers with established
servicing and maintenance capabilities in Ecuador eligible
under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
   (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
   (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2. Computer hardware and software (including installation,
commissioning and maintenance services) shall be procured under
bid packages awarded through a two-step procedure, satisfactory
to the Bank, in accordance with paragraph 2.7 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:  Other Procurement Procedures
   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
   (a)   With respect to each contract for goods under Part A
hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
Page  20
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
   (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
   (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2. The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1. In order to assist the Borrower or the Executing Agencies in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, such consultants shall be
employed under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost $75,000 equivalent or less each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent
or less each. However, this exception to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to more than
$75,000 equivalent; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to more than $30,000 equivalent.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A. In addition and without limitation or restriction to any
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines,
the following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods
referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:
1. Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name
of each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or
permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
2. Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local
representative for purposes of submitting bids.
Page  21
3. Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the
procuring party without recertification by any Ecuadoran bank
or other Ecuadoran person or entity.
4. Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the procuring party shall be admissible
without recertification or other participation by any Ecuadoran
bank or other Ecuadoran person or entity.
5. Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or
provider of services shall not be required to be counter-
guaranteed by such supplier or provider in whole or in part.
This shall not prevent the procuring party from obtaining other
performance warranties from such suppliers or providers.
B. In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants
Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this
Schedule:
1. Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection
process.
2. Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly
or indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any
consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except in
connection with a joint venture arrangement where:
         (i)  a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or
              individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
              consultant reasonable freedom of choice;
        (ii)  the contribution of either party to the
              joint venture arrangement will not be
              constrained by any prescribed manner or
              extent of participation; and
       (iii)  the foreign consultant is not required to
              associate itself with any specific named
              domestic firms or individual consultants.
3. Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a
condition to provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with
a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadoran
firms.
4. Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not
be required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants'
Association that are different from those required for
Ecuadoran consultants.
5. No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out
his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil
service office or any other position in an agency of the
Borrower or any Ecuadoran public sector entity, nor shall such
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or
position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV.  Internal Approvals
1. With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents
and contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be
given only by the Acquisitions Committee.
2. With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval
of contracts or of consultant selection processes required
under the laws of the Borrower, shall be given only by CONAM.
Page  22
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
   (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
   (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
   (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
   (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
   (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
              Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
              deposits into the Special Account at such
              intervals as the Bank shall specify.
        (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
              request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
              Bank the documents and other evidence
              required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
              Schedule for the payment or payments in
              respect of which replenishment is
              requested. On the basis of each such
              request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
              Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
              and deposit into the Special Account such
              amount as the Borrower shall have requested
              and as shall have been shown by said
              documents and other evidence to have been
              paid out of the Special Account for
              Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Page  23
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
   (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
   (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
   (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
   (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
   (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
   (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
   (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  24
