DEflet of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4476-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$90 MILLION
TO
LJrUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUBSTITUTION PROJECT
March 6, 1987
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dudes Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinztion-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din.)
Currency Unit 1I          Calendar Year 1985 2/      November 1986 2/
US$1                      Dinar 270.16             Dinar 431.83
Dinar 1                   US$0.004                  usS$o.002
Dinar 1,000,000           US$3,701.50               US$2,315.75
YUGOSIAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MTOE           = Million Tons of Oil Equivalent
TOE            = Tons of Oil Equivalent
TWH            = Terawatt hours (thousand gigawatt hours)
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL           =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
ERR            =  Economic Rate of Return
FRG            =  Federal Republic of Germany
FRR            =  Financial Rate of Return
ICB            =  International Competitive Bidding
JLF            =  Joint Liability Fund
LBL            =  Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana
LDR            =  Less Developed Regions
LTIPES         =  Long-Term Program for Economic Stabilization
MDR            =  More Developed Regions
RF             =  Reserve Fund
SDK            =  Social Accounting Service
SMA            =  Self Management Agreement
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1982. Its parity is reviewed frequently to easure maintenancd of
external competitiveness.
2/ Period average.



FOIR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUBSTITUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL)
Guarantor:         The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:     Small- and medium-sized industries, principally in the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia.
Amount:            us$90.0 million.
Terms:             Repayable on the basis of a composite amortization
schedule, except for the technical assistance component
which will be repayable in 15 years, including three years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Onlending Terms:   Proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to subborrowers
by LBL at a variable interest rate equal to the Bank's
variable rate plus a commission to cover LBL's costs and
expenses, including loss write-offs and contributions to
reserve funds. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the subborrowers. The interest rate to be charged on all
energy related subloans made from LBL's own resources would
be adjusted not less than once each calendar quarter,
beginning 1987, so as to ensure a minimum reduction in
negativity of 31 in real terms each year and will include
an onlending spread to cover LBL's costs and expenses,
including loss write-offs and contributions to reserve
funds. The maximum repayment period for: (a) energy
conservation and substitution subloans would be ten years,
including a grace period of two years; (b) energy audits
subloans would be three years, including one year of grace;
(c) energy equipment, materials and resource development
subloans would be 15 years, including three years of grace;
and (d) technical assistance for energy audits would be ten
years, including two years of grace.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The objectives of the project are to: (i) promote energy
efficiency in industry by reducing energy consumption
through conservation, and by reducing the cost of energy
consumed through the substitution of lower-cost energy _
sources, thereby improving industrial competitiveness and
reducing energy imports; (ii) support the development of
technical capabilities for energy audit work; and (iii)
strengthen the financial and institutional capability of the
| This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



-~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      ii   -  
Borrower.  The project would consist of a line of credit to
LBL to finance subprojects for (a) energy conservation and
substitution in industry; (b) energy audits; (c) the
domestic production of energy-saving material or equipment;
(d) the development or expansion of proven substitute local
energy resources.  Technical assistance would also be
provided to: (a) technical enterprises to promote the
domestic capability in energy auditing techniques and for
consultancy services for energy audits of more complex
subprojects; and (b) LBL to assist in upgrading its
capabilities, with emphasis on investment analyses,
management information systems and supervision.
Benefits
and Risks:         The proposed project would make a direct contribution
towards reducing energy imports in Yugoslavia, as well as
improving the competitiveness of the exporting beneficiary
enterprises, thereby alleviating to some extent the
country's current balance of payments difficulties. The
demonstration effect is also expected to be strong, as
Yugoslav firms endeavor to retain viability during a pe-riod
of adjustments in domestic energy prices and stiff
competition in world markets. The technical assistance
component will have the effect of transferring an important
new technique, energy auditing, benefitting Yugoslavia as a
whole, and of strengthening LBL's operations. The main
risks relate to: (i) LBL's financial management; (ii)
complementary local funds; and (iii) future international
energy prices. The first two, LBL-related risks, are
limited given LBL's plans to improve its operational and
financial performance and its liquidity in respect of
domestic funds. The downside risk for international energy
prices is small given their current low levels, and at
these levels the project continues to be viable.
Estimated Disbursements:
-(US$ Millions)
Bank Fiscal Years:            FY88     FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92    FY93
Annual                        22.5     26.1      20.7     12.6      6.3      1.8
Cumulative                    22.5     48.6     69.3      81.9     88.2    90.0
Staff Appraisal Report: Energy Conservation and Substitution Project,
Report No. 5955-YU, dated March 6, 1987.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO LJUBLJANSKA BANKA, LJUBLJANA (LBL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUBSTITUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL), with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$90.0 million, to
finance an energy conservation and substitution project. The loan would be
repayable on the basis of a composite amortization schedule, except for the
technical assistance component which will be repayable in 15 years, including
three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Proceeds of
the Bank loan would be onlent to subborrowers by LEL at a variable interest
rate equal to the Bank's variable rate plus a comission to cover LBL's
administrative costs, expenses and contributions to reserve funds. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the subborrowers. The maximum
repayment period for: (a) energy conservation and substitution subloans would
be ten years, including a grace period of two years; (b) energy audits
subloans would be three years, including one year of grace; (c) energy
equipment, materials and resource developmeut subloans would be 15 years,
including three years of grace; and (d) technical assistance for energy
audits would be ten years, including two years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Yugoslavia:  Adjustment Policies and Development
Perspectives" (No. 3954-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 2, 1982. Subsequent economic updates were provided through the
President's Reports on the Structural Adjustment Loan (June 2, 1983) and
project lending operations, the last being the Highway Sector Project (May 12,
1986). A report on the energy sector entitled "Yugoslavia: Constraints and
Prospects for Restructuring the Energy Sector" (No. 4797-YU) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 21, 1985. A recent draft economic report
has been sent to the Government. This report is expected to be discussed soon
and be distributed to the Executive Directors during the current fiscal year.
This section reflects its principal findings. Basic data on the economy are
given inl Annex I.
3.        The Yugoslav economy is divided into social and private sectors.
The social sector which includes public institutions and enterprises accounts
for approximately 852 of GSP.  The private sector consists predominately of
peasant farms and small enterprises. Industry account for about 40% of Gross
Social Product (GSP)Y- and 35% of the labor force. Decision making at all
levels is governed by the principle of workers' self-management, involving.a
unique set of institutions and instruments of economic policy. All economic
At Gross Social Product is the basic Yugoslav concept of national income
accounts. It is close to Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but excludes
certain service activities.



-2-
organizations are made up of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor which are the smallest units producing a marketable output.
In addition, a set of instruments, called Social Compacts and
Self-Management Agreements, enables the participation of economic agents in
the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining decentralized
responsibility for policy implementation. These instruments are used to
supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal measures, particularly in
the areas of interest rates, prices, income and employment.
The Need for Stabilization
4.        During the 1960s and 1970s Yugoslavia's economy grew rapidly,
averaging about 6% per year. This performance, however, was characterized by
large investments with little attention to quality or costs. Moreover, the
economy's ability to adjust to external shocks was reduced by an accomodating
credit policy and by rigidities and distortions including imsbility of
capital and labor, negative real interest rates, an increasingly overvalued
exchange rate and highly protected domestic industries. Yugoslavia initially
absorbed the second oil price shock through additional borrowing and managed
thereby to cushion its effects in the short run. This resulted in a rapidly
increasing foreign debt. External debt doubled between 1978-81, reaching
almost $20 billion. With the subsequent increases in world interest rates
and the recession in OECD countries, the servicing of the debt became a
substantially heavier burden. Events in Latin America and in Poland also
created a reluctance in international capital markets to provide additional
funds. A balance of payments crisis resulted in 1982.
5.        To deal with the crisis, Yugoslavia adopted a stabilization program
in the early 1980s. This program was supported by IMY standby agreements, by
a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan and by debt restructuring agreements with
Governments and commercial banks. Attempts at restrictive demand management
policies were made to bring the economy's external accounts into balance.
The real effective exchange rate was depreciated by 15% in 1982 and by 25% in
1983. Since then, the policy has been to keep the real effective exchange
rate approximately at the level of December 1983. These policies and a more
centralized foreign exchange allocation mechanism were successful in bringing
the current account of the balance of payments with convertible currency
areas from a deficit of $3.3 billion in 1979 to a surplus of $779 million in
1984.
6.        Concurrent with the adoption of the stabilization program, economic
growth decelerated sharply between 1980-85. GSP grew by less than 1% per
year between 1980 and 1985. Despite this slowdown, social sector employment
increased on average by 2.4% per year at the cost of declines in labor
productivity. Investment and imports were severely cut through credit
allocation and through the administrative allocation of foreign exchange.
Fixed investment dropped from 30% of GDP in 1980 to 20% in 1985. Imports of
goods in 1985 were about 30% below their 1980 level.
7.        Since 1984 inflationary pressures have accelerated.  The cost of
living index increased by 55% in 1984, 74% in 1985 and 89% in 1986. The
Government's 1986 targets for exports and current account surplus of the



-3-
balance of payments were not achieved. Commodity exports to the convertible
area grew by only 2.51 and the current account surplus fell to $226 million.
These developments were a reflection of the inability of the Government to
maintain a sufficiently restrictive monetary and incomes policy and to
adequately raise the productivity of labor and investment. Demand management
and incomes policies were particularly relaxed starting from the second half
of 1985. In the middle of 1986, nominal interest rates on deposits of three
months were reduced from 73% to 42X. Periodic upward revisions of the
monetary targets accommodated greater than expected increases in prices. In
the Period January-September 1986, real public sector consumption was 181
higher than in the corresponding period of 1985. Real personal incomes are
estimated to have increased by close to 9% in 1986.
Structural Adjustment
8.        The authorities recognized that while a program of stablization and
control of demand is necessary to overcome the external payment pressure a
broader-based long term policy package would also be required to move the
economy out of the crisis and into renewed growth. The framework for policy
was outlined in the Government's 1983 Long-Term Program of Economic
Stabilization (LTPES). The thrust of the LTPES is to reform the system of
economic incentives and to rely increasingly on market mechanisms as a means
to increase efficiency in resource allocation within the context of
Yugoslavia's system of self-management of enterprises by workers. In line
with the recommendations of the LTPES, attempts towards longer term reform of
economic incentives have been initiated in the last two years.
9.        Prices of goods and services were liberalized in early 1985 and
price collusion was proscribed. However, the option of direct price
intervention in exceptional circumstances was retained and largely used. In
response to the higher rate of inflation, price controls were strengthened in
mid-1986. Since then, the combined weight in the industrial producer price
index of commodities under price control is around 601. Prices of energy,
transport and postal and telecommunication services are now being adjusted
gradually to reflect opportunity costs. The Central Bank discount rate and
one year deposit rate are at 62% at the beginning of 1987.
10.       Changes in interest rates have been gradual and slow.  Average
lending rates remait negative in real terms.1'  Since January 1987, the
Government's policy is to achieve positive real interest rates by setting the
Central Bank discount rate and one-year deposit rate at 1 percentage point
above the annualized inflation of the previous six months, measured by the
producers price index.
11.       Legislation was passed restricting income payments by loss-making
enterprises, limiting their access to subsidies and requiring that such
enterprises either undertake rehabilitation programs or close down. To
complement this legislation, the Government's recent incomes policy links
increases in wages in part to increases in productivity and profits of
enterprises.
-i- Average lending rates were 601 in the first nine months of 1986.



-4-
12.       Other measures require investors and creditors to undertake
feasibility studies based on common financial and economic criteria before
funding new investment projects. A new planning law tries to improve
coordination of investments by requiring that nationwide sectoral investment
plans (joint development plans) be drawn up for power, railways and
telecommunications. Agreement on such plans has been difficult to achieve
and no program has yet been finalized.
13.       Recent reforms to the banking system increase minimum capital
requirements of commercial banks, define the limited liability of the
shareholder enterprises, require the build-up of reserves and encourage banks
to operate across Republic boundaries. Major tax reforms are also under
consideration that would rationalize the tax system and reduce the tax burden
on enterprises.
14.       A new foreign exchange allocation system, introduced in January
1986, eliminated the right of enterprises to retain foreign exchange and hold
foreign exchange accounts. All foreign exchange earnings are surrendered to
the banking system. In the context of an administrative allocation of
foreign exchange, debt service obligations and imported inputs for exporters
have first claim. The ultimate objective is the establishment of a free
foreign exchange market and a convertible Dinar. A new foreign exchange
credit law established strict conditions for Yugoslav enterprises to borrow
foreign exchange, including the requirement that all borrowers must
henceforth assume the full foreign exchange risk.
15.       Many of these measures are still in the early stages of
implementation. While a new foreign trade law calls for the progressive
liberalization of trade, the pertinent transitional measures subject most
import categories to a tight system of administrative allocations.
16.       Despite some progress, reforms adopted by the authorities have not
yet built a framework of incentives promoting the restructuring of the
economy according to its comparative advantage. Export trends have been
erratic. Although the higher nominal domestic interest rates, the passing of
the foreign exchange risk to borrowers, and the general shortage of local
resources have of late led to a more selective approach to investment, there
is no clear evidence that the structure of investment better reflects the
needs of the economy. Indeed the very high level of inventories points to a
large share of savings being tied to stock accumulation and raises questions
about the efficiency of overall resource use. Similarly although legislation
has been enacted to tighten financial discipline at the enterprise level, its
implementation has lagged. The resolution of these issues is critical to a
sustained recovery of Yugoslavia's economy.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       The 1986-90 Social Plan assumes that the reforms adopted since
1984, which cover the main areas of activity identified by the LTPES to
improve resource allocation, will be successfully implemented. The
macroeconomic framework of the 1986-90 plan is based on a 42 annual growth of



-5-
output, with the industrial and agricultural sectors growing by 4.6% and
5.4%, respectively. Exports would grow by 6X per annum while imports would
grow at 5X. The plan projections suggest these trends would allow a
cumulative current account surplus of $6 billion and a 2% annual growth in
social sector employment, mainly in labor intensive activities.
18.       The overall macroeconomic targets of the plan, particularly the
current account surpluses, are ambitious as the performance of the economy in
1986 illustrates. Vigorous stabilization efforts are required to bring down
inflation and reduce the pressure on the balance of payments. Stabilization
efforts are also required to permit a more efficient implementation of the
liberalization measures envisaged. A consistent program of stabilization,
reform of the system of incentives, continued access to international
financial markets, and stable international oil prices and interest rates in
real terms would allow the economy to grow at about 3% p.a. up to 1990, and
accumulate a current account surplus of $2.7-3.0 billion. Although the
growth rate of output would be somewhat lower than the Plan target, the
restructuring efforts would allow the economy to achieve a higher and
sustainable growth rate later on.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.       At the end of 1986, Yugoslavia's external debt was estimated to be
$20.9 billion, of which $19.5 billion was in convertible currencies. Of the
total convertible currency debt, medium- and long-term debt was about $18.0
billion while short-term debt amounted to about $1.4 billion. In 1986, the
debt service payments payable in convertible currencies were about 45% of
convertible currency export earnings. The convertible debt service burden
drops to 331 when the rescheduled maturities are excluded.
20.       Yugoslavia has negotiated debt restructuring packages with its
creditors since 1983. The debt relief exercises up to May 1986 were under
the umbrella of IMF standby programs. In December 1985, Yugoslavia and the
commercial banks reached an agreement for a multi-year rescheduling
arrangement to cover the original maturities of loans contracted before
January 1983 falling due between 1985 and 1988. The agreement with
commercial banks, which has to be reconfirmed for 1987-S8, is linked to
enhanced monitoring by the IMF. In April 1986, Government creditors agreed
to reschedule 85% of the original maturities of loans contracted prior to
December 1982 falling due between May 16, 1986 and May 15, 1987. They also
agreed to reschedule a smaller percentage of this debt (to be determined by
the Paris Club) up to the end of March 1988, and consider an additional
request for debt relief up to the end of 1988.
21.       Yugoslavia's liquidity situation is likely to remain difficult in
the near term. Limited access to international financial markets due to
perceived uncertainties regarding the economy's medium term prospects are
likely to create difficulties in the management of the capital account of the
balance of paymeats. However, the debt service ratio could decline to about
301 by the end of this decade provided the Government implements the reforms
that have been initiated. Progress in the implementation of a credible



package of policy reforms would also persuade the international financial
community to consider maintaining their exposure in Yugoslavia. Given the
relatively modest size of Yugoslavia's debt in relation to its GDP (about 44Z
in 1985), sound stabilization policies and the timely reduction of
distortions would enable the economy to overcome the debt overhang and
achieve sustainable growth. As a result, Yugoslavia is considered
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       The proposed loan would be the ninety-second loan made to
Yugoslavia by the Bank, bringing the total to about $4,312 million, net of
cancellations. Approximately 32% ($1,358.1 million) of the total has been
for 23 loans fEr the transport sector: 13 for highways, including the FY86
Highway Sector Project (the ninety-first Bank loan) which was approved by the
Board of Executive Directors in June 1986; 8 for railways, and 2 for ports.
Twenty-one loans totalling about $953.4 million (231 of the total) have been
made for the agriculture sector. Thirteen loans, totalling about $785.7
million (19%), were made for the energy sector, of which eight were for power
projects; three for the FY85 First Petroleum Sector Project; and one loan
each for a natural gas and an oil pipeline. Twenty-one loans, amounting to
about $531.8 million (13% of the total) have been made for industry,
including seven lines of credit.  Other loans made to Yugoslavia include six
for water supply and sewerage; two multipurpose loans; two for tourism and
one each for air pollution control, telecommunications, and structural
adjustment.
23.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) started its involvement
in Yugoslavia in 1970. Since then, it has made 20 investments in the country
and, as of September 30, 1986, its portfolio amounted to $596.5 million gross
and $349.8 million net of participation and repayments. The basic objectives
of IFC in Yugoslavia are to: (a) assist export-oriented industries; (b)
encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c) foster
technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources n
addition to IFC's own funds.
24.       Bank lending since 1983 has sought to support the Government's
structural adjustment program (LTPES) and its efforts to promote exports and
improve the efficiency of investment. The Bank has concentrated its lending
operations in areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is
expected to be greatest. Accordingly, a shift to more program and sector
operations, including the FY83 Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2326-YU), has
occurred to help consolidate and strengthen policy and institutional changes
critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural development. Sector operations
included the FY84 Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU), the FY85
Petroleum Sector Project (Loans 2595-YU to 2597-YU), and the FY86 Highway
Sector Project. Although SAL and multi-republic sector operations are
consistent with Yugoslavia's priorities, their implementation has faced
serious delays resulting from the need to ensure inter-regional consensus.
In addition, the complicated local procedures for loan approval and
registration, the shortage of local funds, issues relating to foreign



-7-
%change availability for loan repayment (for non-exporters) and the bearing
Oi foreign exchange risk have in recent years generally created problems in
the implementation of on-going projects and in the processing, signing and
effectiveness of new projects. Two loans approved by the Board in 1984 and
1985 could not be signed and were eventually withdrawn (the Fertilizer Sector
and Bosnia Forestry projects). An Operational Review was held in Belgrade in
December, 1986 to address these problems and to pave the way for an agreement
with the Government on a medium-term program of Bank assistance. The Review
led to a better mutual understanding of the situation, particularly in the
context of recent changes in laws and regulations, most of which impact on
Bank operations. Nevertheless, more determined internal coordination in
Yugoslavia and with the Bank is necessary to enable the processing and timely
implementation of a sizeable number of operations, including policy-based
loans
25.       Future Bank lending would continue to support Yugoslavia's pursuit
of economic growth through improvements in productivity and in export
performance. The timing of a possible second SAL operation is uncertain
owing to difficulties in reaching agreement with the Yugoslav authorities on
a medium-term adjustment program. Bank support envisaged for industry would
focus on export promotion, industrial restructuring in selected sub-sectors,
energy conservation, and technology development. In energy, Bank lending
strategy would focus on the development of indigenous resources, promotion of
least-cost joint development programs among the republics and provinces,
economic pricing, and increasing the efficiency of energy use and supply.
Lending for transport, mainly roads and railways, would be geared to promote
better resource allocation through improved investment planning and pricing
policy. In agriculture, lending prospects are still under review.
26.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum. The Bank is likely to
remain one of the principal sources of long-term external capital. It will
endeavor to attract capital from other sources through co-financing
operations which would help Yugoslavia to regain access to international
financial markets.
27.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1986 amounted to about 12.7% of
its medium and long term debt outstanding. In light of the planned reduction
in Yugoslavia's total debt outstanding and the limited access to
international capital markets that Yugoslavia is expected to have during the
1980s, the share of debt owed to the Bank will likely peak to around 181 by
1990. The extent of the increase will depend on the speed with which
Yugoslavia is able to implement reforms and regain normal access to the
international capital markets. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service (including interest payments on short-term debt) was 5.9S
in 1986 and is projected to rise gradually by the end of the decade to about
12.71.
PART III - ENERGY AND TEE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Energy and Industry in the Economy
28.       Energy Resources and Consumption.  Yugoslavia's indigenous energy
resources include lignite, oil and gas, coal and hydropower. Shale oil



deposits, while extensive, are not economically exploitable with current
technology. Lignite reserves are estimated at about 2,600 million tons of
oil equivalent (mtoe); low quality confines development to open pit mining
operations in conjunction with nearby consuming units. Proven economically
recoverable oil reserves are estimated at about 70 million tons; gas reserves
are estimated at 70 million mtoe. Proven economically recoverable reserves
of hard coal are about 40 mtoe, although only 601 is exploitable; for brown
coal proven reserves are about 437 mtoe, of which 100% is exploitable and 30%
is suitable for open pit mining. Economically viable hydropower potential is
estimated at about 55 Terawatt hours (TWh), of which 27 TWh has already been
developed, with another 3.4 TWh to be developed by 1990.  In 1984 total
consumption of energy in the economy was just over 45 mtoe or 1.38 toe per
capita. This is over 1-1/2 times the average for upper middle-income
countries (e.g. Brazil and Greece), but only 60% of the average for
neighboring Western European market economies. This relatively high level
among upper middle-income countries is explained by: (i) the high share of
low grade coals and lignites, which have low end-use efficiencies; (ii) the
large share of heavy industry in the economy; (iii) the relatively cold
winters, which require large expenditures for heating; and (iv) substantial
scope for energy conservation. Industrial energy consumption presently
accounts for 38% of total energy consumption, the transport sector about 201,
chemical feedstocks about 15%, and the household and other sectors about 14%
each.
29.       Energy, Trade and Payments. Energy imports grew in value from 81
in 1973 to 29% of the value of all commodity imports in 1985. In 1984 energy
imports accounted for 38% of total energy consumption, while exports were
negligible. Two thirds of these imports are oil; the remainder are
principally coking coal and gas. Although down from a peak of $3.7 billion
in 1981, energy imports still represent about 30% of all commodity
expenditures and 181 of current account expenditures. As such, they are the
single largest import commodity group, followed by fabricated metal products,
a far less homogeneous grouping. The growth in the volume of oil imports was
1.41 annually between 1973 and 1984, but in value terms, 23.41 annually. In
198& the value of energy imports was about twice the trade account deficit
($1.17 billion).
30.       Energy Balance.  Yugoslavia's dependence on imported energy is
projected to remain at about the 1984 level of 37Z-381 in 1990, through
increased energy production, substitution and conservation, reforms in energy
pricing, and other demand management policies, initiated under the Program of
Long-Term Measures for the Rationalization, Substitution and Conservation of
Energy. However, success in meeting this goal is dependent upon the timely
completion of well chosen projects and maintaining the momentum for
increasing energy prices to reach their economic values. By 1990, production
of brown coal and lignite are projected to be 371, natural gas 561, and hydro
and nuclear electricity 78% above their respective 1984 levels. Final
consumption of energy is projected to increase at an average rate of 3.4%
p.a. during the period 1984-90 but the gross supply of energy will need to
increase slightly faster at 4.7% p.a to sustain this increase. This is due
partly to the lower efficiency in end-use of lignite and brown coal, compared



-9-
to petroleum, and partly to the increasing use of electricity, which is
projected to increase from 201 of final energy consumption to about 301 in
1990.
31.       Energy Prices.  Energy price reforms were initiated in 1983.  The
purpose of the reform was to adjust these prices to economic levels. In
spite of the fall in international oil prices, the price adjustment continued
in Yugoslavia through 1986 in order to limit further consumption. As a
result, petroleum prices as well as the prics of natural gas are now well
above economic levels. Electricity prices are now, on the average, about 801
of economic costs and coal prices are about 80-831 of economic costs. The
adjustment of energy prices to economic levels will act as a major incentive
for investments in conservation by energy users.  In line with the Long-Term
Program for Economic Stabilization (LTPES) and agreements under SAL I, the
prices of domestic gas, coal and electricity are expected to reach parity
with economic costs between 1987 and 1988. The upward price movements since
1983 have already created significant demand for conservation, while the
relative costs of the various energy sources greatly encourage substitution
of domestic solid fuels for imported liquid fuels.
32.       Industry, Trade and Energy Consumption. The industrial sector is
the leading sector of the economy. In 1984, it accounted for 421 of the
Social Product (GDP), 391 of employment, 55% of fixed assets in the Social
Sector, and 941 of export earnings. Industry is also a major consumer of
imports, accounting for about 941 of total imports in 1984. Average annual
growth rates during the 1972-84 period for the industrial social product and
exports were 61 and 5.61, respectively, compared to 3.4% and minus 4.91,
respectively, fir agriculture. Manufacturing industry accounts for almost
all industrial exports and 701 of industrial imports.
Potential for Energr Conservation and Substitution
33.       There are substantial opportunities for energy conservation and
substitution. Based on an analysis of energy-audited subprojects, savings of
182-201 of present energy use in industry appear feasible as a result of
prudent conservation measures and process changes. In 1982, industry in
Yugoslavia used 7.9 million toe; a 201 reduction would give a savings of
about 1.6 million toe per year. Potential savings in foreign exchange would
amount to $256 million annually; these savings amount to 151 of the 1984
trade deficit. A comparison of energy consumption, expressed as toe per unit
of gross output in both Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG),
was made, based on eight manufacturing industry subsectors, accounting for
96% of the industrial energy use in Yugoslavia. Potential energy savings
were about 23%.
Bank Involvement and Strategy in the Industrial Sector
34.     . Bank lending to industry comprises 21 loans, including seven
industrial credit lines. Project completion reports (PCRs) and Audit Reports
were prepared for the first credic line (Loans 1012-YU and 1013-YU) and
indicated satisfactory use of Bank funds, improvement in the quality of
appraisal work, and substantial progress with respect to developing exterDnl
auditing capabilities.  Institutional development of the financial



-10-
intermediaries, however, was slower and more modest than expected. The
Project Completion Report on the second, third and fourth industrial credit
lines (Loans 1277 and 1611-1614 YU - not audited by OED) shows continued
satisfactory achievement of financing objectives; but, institutional progress
was varied and generally unsatisfactory. Subproject appraisal and
supervision remain inadequate in scope and depth. Auditing arrangements did
improve; despite this, the financial position of the borrowers remain unclear
and appears weak. Data availability and management information systems
continue to remain unsatisfactory. Commitments under the fifth credit line
(Loans 1909-YU to 1912-YU) are complete and disbursements are substantially
complete. Commitment and disbursements of the sixth (Loans 2132-YU and
2133-YB) and seventh (Loans 2339-YU and 2340-YU) credit lines, although
behind schedule, are underway. This project draws on past experiences and
addresses specific financial and -anagerial problems of the borrowing bank
(para. 44-45, 47-48, 51-52). In line with objectives of the Governm.ent's
Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES) and the Bank's future
lending strategy (para. 25), lending for industry would focus on specific
subsectors seen to have comparative advantage (e.g., textiles and
electromechanical industries) and towards specific industrial priorities
(e.g., export promotion, energy conservation, restructuring and employment),
which are expected to maximize benefits.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was identified by the Bank's appraisal mission
for the Sixth Industrial Credit Project (Loans 2132-YU and 2133-YU), during
the Fall of 1981. The project was appraised by the Bank in MaylJune 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington June 9 to 17, 1986 and issues which
remained unresolved at that time were agreed during subsequent negotiations
in the field and through exchanges up until February 1987. The Yugoslav
delegation was led by Mr. Stanislav Valant, Executive Vice President,
Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL), and included a representative from the
Federal Government. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5955-YU dated March 6,
1987) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the project are outlined-ain the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Obiectives and Description
36.       The objectives of the project are: (i) to promote energy efficiency
in Yugoslavia's industry by reducing the current volume of energy consump-
tion, through conservation, and by lowering the cost of energy consumed
through substitution of lower-cost energy sources, thereby improving
industrial competitiveness and reducing energy imports; (ii) to support the
development of technical capabilities for, energy audit work in Yugoslavia;
and (iii) to strengthen the financial and institutional aspects of LBL.  By
providing investment financing, as well as through the transfer of new
analytical techniques, the project would demonstrate energy-saving
possibilities in manufacturing industry in Yugoslavia. The project would
consist of: (a) a line of credit to Ljubljanska Banks Ljubljana (LBL) to



-11-
finance subprojects for: (i) energy conservation and substitution in
industry; (ii) energy auditing; (iii) domestic produc;:ion of energy saving
material or equipment; and (iv) development or expansion of proven substitute
local energy resources; and (b) technical assistance to: (i) technical
enterprises and institutes to promote domestic capability in energy auditing
techniques and for consultancy services for energy audits for more complex
subprojects; and (ii) LBL to assist in upgrading its capabilities, with
emphasis on investment analysis, management information systems and
supervision. This would be the first of a series of Bank loans expected to
be made to Yugoslavia for energy conservation and substitution. The proposed
loan would be made to LBL, whose clients are primarily, but not only, in
Slovenia, a highly industrialized Republic of Yugoslavia. The proposed loan
is expected to have demonstration effects throughout the country; $10 million
of the loan proceeds would be reserved for subprojects outside of Slovenia.
37.       Subprojects in energy conservation and substitution are expected to
form the majority of the investments. Conservation projects may generate
energy savings through process change, as well as through more obvious
improvements in metering, flow control, insulation, etc. Process changes can
provide benefits through quantitative or qualitative effects, or both. In
addition to energy conservation and substitution, quantitative effects can be
either: (i) increased output volume, with no increase in non-energy inputs
(raw materials); or (ii) no change in output volume, but a decrease in
non-energy inputs. Qualitative effects of process change will be reflected
through an increase in the product price as a result of improved quality.
Since the project is primarily for energy savings, energy related benefits
are expected to be at least 551 of the discounted value of the total benefit
stream of any energy conservation and substitution project. Energy audits
are a necessary part of the appraisal of subprojects in energy conservation
and substitution. They are primarily a means of identifying potential
investments and assessing needed investment, as well as the economic and
financial benefits. Most of the energy audits would be carried out by local
technical enterprises. Energy audits of the larger or technically complex
enterprises may require foreign consultancy services, which would be eligible
for financing under the proposed Bank loan. Subprojects for producing
energy-saving materials or equipment are expected to reduce imports of such
items and expand overall energy conservation and substitution efforts in
Yugoslavia. Typical investments would be in the production of insulation
materials, controls, and fuel-burning equipment, some of which are presently
manufactured in Yugoslavia; however, the need for improvement as well as
expansion is present. Given the high level of dependency on imported oil in
portions of Yugoslavia, there is a potential for subproiects for producing
substitute local energy. Availability of substitute fuel is low, but proven
lignite deposits are available and could be developed in conjunction with
substitution projects in nearby plants. Some geothermal energy sources are
also under review with a view to possible financing of such investments under
the project.
38.       Energy Audit Technical Assistance.  During project preparation,
foreign consultants were retained to execute energy audits related to
proposed subprojects; they worked with local technical euterprises,
progressively transferring the energy audit capability to the staff of these
enterprises. In Slovenia, this resulted in high-quality energy audits and in



-12-
a rapid initiation of the technical transfer process. Slovenia is now
capable of independently executing all but the most complex energy audits.
To consolidate these nevly-acquired capabilities and to provide training to
enhance them, financing would be provided under the loan for specialized
trmining, some equipment and access to foreign consultants for audits of
complex subprojects.
39.       Status of Sub-Project Preparation.  The confirmed pipeline for
investments in energy conservation consists of 40 subprojects (about $40
million in foreign exchange costs). Energy audits have also been completed
for three other potential subprojects. A further 40 enterprises located in
Slovenia have indicated their interest in energy audits. In the energy
saving materials and equipment area, two subprojects are currently under
preparation. Four subprojects for local energy resource development have
been identified: two each for open pit lignite mine investments and
geothermal energy. In the case of the latter, these would be small
investments for the direct utilization of geothermal heat. About 351 of the
subprojects currently under preparation are expected to be appraised and a
further 351 pre-identified by LBL by early-1987.
The Proposed Borrower
40.       Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL), the third largest bank in
Yugoslavia and principal associated bank in Slovenia, was incorporated in
1955 and comprises 22 basic banks, 14 within Slovenia and 8 outside the
Republic. LBL's highest decision-making body is the General Assembly, with
delegates from each of the member basic banks; it approves the bank's
five-year plans , annual plans and business policy and appoints several boards
from among its members. The Executive Board is responsible for supervising
the execution of the five-year plans of the bank and for implementing the
policies approved by the Assembly. The Credit and Control Board controls the
lending and borrowing operations. The Management Board, headed by the
president of LBL, consists of five of the bank's nine vice presidents and is
responsible for the day-to-day operations.
41.       The annual business policy is approved by the Assembly, based on
Slovenia's and the Federal Republic's five-year plans. Currently, the
highest lending priorities are for export-oriented industry, energy and
agriculture, which account for over 801 of the present and projected total
lending operations of LBL. Lending rates are revised frequently (3-6 months)
and currently range from 44X to 70X. LBL sets the spread for local currency
loans and dinar commissions on foreign currency loans in relation to its
projected administrative expenses and other needs (write-offs, financial
losses, and reserve requirements). In 1985, the average spread for local
currency loans was 62 p.a., while the average dinar commission on foreign
currency loans was also 62 p.a. Resource mobilization policy emphasizes
long-term foreign exchange deposits, particularly from emigrants.  Long-term
deposit rates have been increased significantly (15S to 602) to achieve the
resource mobilization goals.
42.       Operations. Long-term loan commitments are generally for medium-
and small-size loans ranging, in 1985, from about $70,000 to about $330,000;
only a few were more than $2.6 million. Basic banks process the smaller



-13-
loans while the larger loans, and all involving foreign exchange are
appraised by LBL's Investment Promotiou Sector (para. 48). The short-term
loans, mostly revolving credits for financing working capital needs of
enterprises, are normally granted for three months. New loans
are not granted prior to repayment of loans which are due.
43.       Guarantee transactions constitute an important component of LBL
operations. At the end of 1985, the outstanding guarantees were about $4.0
billion equivalent, or 40? of LBL's total lending operations. Guarantees are
for import, export and project-financing activities; about 352 are in foreign
exchange for import-export operations and the balance in local currency. In
1985, guarantee income accounted for about 3.61 of the total income (Din 8.7
billion); losses have been minimal, due to strong export performance of
subborrowers and strict enforcement procedures.
44.       Financial Position. Total assets increased from about Din. 476
billion in 1982 to Din. 1,915 billion in 1985 ($6.1 billion in 1985 terms).
The long-term loan portfolio increased by 33.3% p.a. in dinar terms to $1.6
billion over the sue period.  The long-term debt/reserves ratio increased
from 1.8 in 1982 to 3.9 in 1985. The share of reserves in total assets
declined from 3.91 to 3.31 during the same period. These changes are largely
due to the rapid devaluation of the dinar vis-a-vis foreign resources, which
account for a high proportion of LBL's financial structure, as well as to the
slow growth of reserves (para. 49). The overall current ratio has been in
the acceptable range of 0.9 to 1.1. LBL's foreign currency liquidity was
hard hit by closure in 1981 of the domestic foreign exchange market. LBL had
to reschedule foreign debt maturities totalling $432 million equivalent,
which fell due in 1983 and 1984. Additional rescheduling of $220 million
equivalent for 1985-1986 with international commercial banks has been
completed. With these reschedulings, LBL has been able to service all of its
domestic and foreign debt. LBL's net income after taxes increased from about
Din. 2.3 billion in 1982 to about Din. 42.4 billion in 1985, reflecting an
annual growth rate, in dinar terms, of about 1641.
45.       Arrears and Reserves Position.  At the end of 1985, the total
arrears on foreign exchange repayments, due to LBL from subborrowers who are
net importers, amounted to $431 million, of which $120 million were due from
infrastructure enterprises (railways, energy and roads). Starting in 1985,
LBL adopted a foreign exchange retention scheme to recover the deferred
foreign exchange losses then due from the net importers ($280 million).
However, continuance of this scheme on an annual basis was not feasible in
light of a new foreign exchange law, which became effective throughout
Yugoslavia in January 1986, and which requires that 1001 of all foreign
exchange be surrendered to the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). LBL now
intends to implement a program to match its foreign exchange assets with its
liabilities through the purchase of foreign exchange mainly from its
household deposit-holders over the three-year period 1986-88 and to write-off
the loss from annual earnings over a five-year period 1986-90. Other foreign
exchange losses occurring from post-1985 maturities would be written-off in
the year in which they arise. Achievement of these targets would be a major
step towards LBLts financial soundness by 1990.



-14-
46.       LBL's reserves are low.  The Credit and Banking Law of 1978
required that a bank must maintain the Joint Liability Fund (JLF) and the
Reserve Fund (RF) each at not less than 3X of its total investments at the
end of the previous year. At the end of 1985, like most Yugoslav banks,
LBL's JLF and RF were below the required level (801 and 53X of the required
level respectively). Under the 1986 Banking and Credit Law, the Yugoslav
banks are now required to periodically increase their contributions to the
JLF and the BF to achieve by 1990 a target level of 51 each. In order to
achieve this target, LBL's five-year plan, which was reviewed by the Bank and
found adequate, provides for an annual increase for each fund. LBL has also
agreed to submit to the Bank for its approval any substantial revisions in
the policies and measures for attaining the JLF/RF targets and for the
elimination of the foreign exchange losses, as set forth in the five-year
plan.
47.       Organization and Management. LBL, with a total staff of 1200, is
divided into nine sectors and five special units. The sectors are organized
along functional lines, each headed by a vice president; Planning, Resource
Management, Investment Promotion and Analysis, Personal Banking, Foreign
Transactions, Foreign Relations, Accounting, Personnel and Administration,
and Electronic Data Processing.  The special units, which report to the
Management Board, are task-oriented. Aside from some improvements which are
to be undertaken as a part of this project (para. 48), LBL's crganization is
satisfactory to carry out its operational needs. Over the years, LBL has
developed a capable and stable staff at the senior and middle management
level.
48.       Project appraisal capability, developed in LBI with the assistance
of IFC (para. 23), is satisfactory. The Investment Promotion Sector (IPS) is
responsible for the appraisal for all projects requiring borrowed
foreign-exchange funds or pooled resources of more than one basic bank.
Feasibility studies by external consultants are normally required for larger
applications. IPS currently has a staff of 24 professionals including 17
economists, six engineers and one lawyer. While the appraisal staff is
competent, their number is inadequate to handle the present workload,
particularly in the engineering field. To alleviate staffing constraints,
LBL has agreed to employ by December 31, 1987 an additional 2 economists and
8 engineers. Project supervision, the responsibility of the Resource
Management Sector (RNS), needs to be further improved. Also, coordination
between the basic banks and RMS is weak. Except for very large projects,
supervision is mostly on an ad-hoc basis, with inadequate reporting and
review procedures. LBL, with the Bank's assistance, has begun to develop a
supervision system. Implementation of the system began in July 1986 and is
expected to become fully operational by June 30, 1987. To implement the
system, LBL would establish by March 31, 1987 a separate supervision
department under RMS, and would recruit five engineers and five economists to
staff it by September 30, 1987.
49.       Internal auditing activity is being strengthened.  LBL has already
appointed four new auditors in this division and would recruit additional
auditors by June 30, 1987. The Planning and Analysis Sector (PAS) is
responsible for operational and financial planning and analysis for the
bank. The timeliness and coverage of its reports are inadequate. To



-15-
strengthen the planning process, LBL recently elevated the planning and
statistics activity to the sector level; appointed a new vice president in
charge of the sector; and would recruit additional personnel by June 30,
1987. In early 1984, LBL reviewed alternative means to improve its
menaRement information sst   (MIS) resulting in a two-phased improvement
program. The first phase addresses the information needs of the department
directors and their sectoral vice presidents. Most of these sectoral
subsystems are in operation, but rely on manual data-processing.  Priority is
to be given to mechanization of accounting, financial records, consumer
banking and to special applications such as plan4ning, appraisal and
supervision. The second phase (1986-87) would address the requirements of
the top management and across the sectors such as planning and supervision.
The proposed project would finance the first phase of the mechanization
program, which is to install 13 personal computers and software for
information processing and for special applications. The total cost of this
component is estimated to be $300,000. LBL has also initiated a training
program for equipment operators, which is satisfactory.
Features of the Proposed Loan
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $90 million would be made to LBL at the
Bank's standard variable rate. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent by
LBL to eligible subborrowers, in accordance with the terms and conditions
agreed upon during negotiations (paras. 54-55). The Bank loan would be
repaid on the basis of a composite amortization schedule, except for the
technical assistance component, which will be repayable in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. Proceeds of the Bank loan, onlent by LBL, would
be used to finance eligible fixed assets and any incremental permanent
working capital required under the subprojects (i.e., additional stocks of
raw materials, including energy inputs arising as a result of the subproject
investment). Foreign exchange expenditures by enterprises for energy audits
for preparation of investment subprojects will also be eligible for Bank
financing. A portion of the Bank loan, amounting to $0.6 million, allocated
for the technical assistance program for the technical enterprises and for
LBL, would cover the foreign exchange costs of consultancy services,
equipment and training abroad for technical and financial personnel. The
proposed Bank loan is estimated to comprise on a commitment basis about 10l
of LBL's long-term industrial lending program and 401 of LBL's foreign
currency requirements for the industrial lending program covering a two-year
period (mid-1987 to mid-1989). LBL would undertake to provide adequate local
funds for project implementation, including the technical assistance
program. To ensure the availability of the Bank loan proceeds to finance
suitable investments elsewhere in Yugoslavia, $10 million of the Bank loan
would be reserved for up to 18 months following loan effectiveness for
financing subprojects outside Slovenia. The final date for submission of
subprojects to the Bank for financing under the loan is December 31, 1989;
the closing date for the Bank loan is December 31, 1992.               -
51.       Subloan Size and Free Limit. The aggregate of the subloans, per
subproject and per enterprise, would not exceed $6 million. To ensure the
availability of Bank funds for the wide range of subprojects already
identified and to ensure that smaller subprojects can be accommodated, at
least 501 of the total number of subloans would be for amounts not to exceed
$3.0 million. For individual subloans for energy conservation and



-16-
substitution and for energy-saving equipment and materials subprojects, the
free limit under the proposed Bank loan would be set at $2.0 million.
Notwithstanding the free limit, LBL would submit to the Bank for its approval
the first five subprojects each for energy conservation and substitution and
for energy audits, the first two energy-saving equipment and materials
subprojects, and the first two reduction in unit energy consumption
subprojects, prior to committing proceeds of the Bank loan. The Bank would
review all local energy-resource development subprojects. It is expected
that about 25Z of the subprojects financed under the loan will be over the
free limit and reviewed by the Bank.
52.       Subproiect Appraisal Criteria. All energy conservation and
substitution projects will be required to have a professional energy audit
acceptable to the Bank as the basis for appraisal. All appraisals of local
energy resource development subprojects would demonstrate: (a) the need for
such an investment, on the basis of the current Republican energy balance;
and (b) that such an investment provides the least-cost alternative for
substitution in comparison with other available energy sources, domestic or
imported. Subproject appraisal reports would be prepared in accordance with
the criteria agreed upon with LBL; for subloans of less than $500,000 the
reports would contain: (a) technical, economic and financial evaluations,
including ERR and FRR; (b) financial statements for the past three years and
analyses of past performance trends in production, sales, financial
efficiency and profitability; (c) a review of the annual energy intensity of
the subborrower for the most recent three-year period as well as projections
covering a five-year period; and (d) a financing plan, its payback period
and, based on this, a subloan amortization schedule. For subprojects with
Bank financed subloans of $500,000 or more, the appraisal reports would also
include five-year projections of the investing enterprise's financial
statements together with an analysis of the economic and financial rates of
return of these.
53.       Economic and Financial Evaluation.  LBL will prepare a satisfactory
economic and financial evaluation of the subprojects. The minimum acceptable
ERR will be 121. The minimum acceptable FRR, in current terms, will be the
Bank's variable lending rate at the time of subloan approval plus the
borrower's onlending commission, both to be deflated by the Bank's current
Manufacturing Unit Value Index of international inflation.
Onlending Terms
54.       Interest Rates.  The foreign exchange and interest rate risk on all
subloans financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be borne by the
subborrowers. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent by LBL at a variable
interest rate equal to the Bank's variable rate plus the onlending dinar
comission at a level sufficient to cover LBL's costs and expenses, including
loss write-offs and contributions to reserves (paras. 45-46). Interest
charged on local currency loans made from LBL's own resources for energy
related investments would be adjusted not less thnn once each calendar
quarter, beginning in 1987, to ensure a minimum reduction in negativity each
year of 3Z in real terms from the 1986 level of minus 18% and will include an
onlending spread at a level sufficient to cover LBL's costs and expenses,
including loss-write offs and contributions to reserves. The adjustments



-17-
will be made until a positive real rate is achieved. Thereafter adjustments
will be made to maintain a positive rate. LBL has also agreed to furnish by
September 30, in draft and by December 31 of each year in final, a plan
satisfactory to the Bank for the level of the spread or comission to be
charged during the following year on all its variable interest rate loans and
new loans, in order to meet this objective.
55.       Subloan Repaymets.  For subprojects for energy conservation and
substitution, for energy equipment and materials, and for energy resource
development, the actual subloan repayment periods for individual subprojects
would be set by JABL on the basis of projected cash-flow data and the
estimated payback period for the subproject. For energy conservation and
substitution subprojects, the maximum subloan repayment period will be ten
years, including a maximu grace period of two years. The maximum subloan
repayment period for energy equipment and materials and for energy resources
subprojects will be 15 years, including a maximum of three years of grace.
Energy audit subloans are expected to be small (not exceeding $10,000). The
maximum repayment period will be three years, including a maximum grace
period of one year. Subloans to the local technical enterprises and
institutes for technical assistance in energy audits will have a maximum
repayment period of ten years, including two years of grace. The foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance to LBL will be repayable to the
Bank over a period of 15 years, including three years of grace.
Procurement and Dishursements
56.       International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures will normally be
required for all contracts estimated to exceed $2 million equivalent. Prior
Bank review would be required for ICB bid documents for contracts for which
the estimated value is in excess of $3 million, as well as for contracts
regardless of the estimated value, for which there are exceptions to, or
modifications of, ICB procedures. For contracts awarded through ICB to
domestic suppliers, the ex-factory cost of the goods will be eligible for
financing under the Bank loan. It is estimated that about 15% of the number
and about 201 of the value of the Bank loan would be procured under ICB.
Procurement for contracts for goods financed from the Bank loan estimated to
cost less than $2 million may be carried out through limited international
tendering in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Items estimated to cost less than $750,000 may be purchased on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three comnercially
independent sources. The personal computers and software to be financed
under the technical assistance component would be procured through
international and local shopping, taking account of local servicing and
training facilities.
57.       Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period
of six years (calendar years 1987 to 1992) in accordance with the
disbursement profile for development finance projects in Yugoslavia.
Disbursements would cover 100Z of the foreign exchange expenditures for
consultancy services and training, and 100l of foreign and local (ex-factory)
expenditures for materials and equipment. With the exception of contracts



-18-
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent, all applications for withdrawal will
be fully documented. For contracts valued at less than $50,000,
disbursements from the Bank loan would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures, which will be audited annually and made available to the Bank.
To expedite disbursement of the Bank loan, LBL would establish a Special
Account, into which the Bank vould deposit $7 million (representing about
four months' expenditures) to be used by LBL to finance the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures. Retroactive financing of goods and services for
subprojects up to a total of $3 million, and of equipment and services up to
$200,000 for the technical assistance component of the project incurred after
November 15, 1985, will be eligible for financing under the loan.
Environment
58.       In general, the project can be expected to improve the environment
through the provision of more efficient energy transformation and utilization
equipment. In the case of energy substitution projects, where coal and
lignite are substituting for other energy sources, LBL will obtain an
undertaking from the investors that appropriate anti-pollution equipment
would be installed in accordance with Yugoslav and Slovene environmental laws
and regulations and in keeping with Bank Environmental Guidelines.
Compliance with these undertakings will be mounitored by the Bank and LBL
staff.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       In the context of the current economic and balance of payments
difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, the proposed project would make a direct
contribution towards reducing energy imports, particularly in Slovenia, as
well as improving the competitiveness of exporting beneficiary enterprises.
Indirectly, the demonstration effect is expected to be strong, as Yugoslav
firms endeavor to retain viability during a period of rapidly increasing
domestic energy prices and sluggish domestic markets. The proposed project
represents a pilot effort, which would be watched closely by the other
republics and provinces. Successful implementation of this project is
expected to generate demand for similar projects throughout Yugoslavia. The
technical assistance component will have the effect of transferring an
important new technique, energy auditing, to Yugoslav engineering
enterprises. It is expected that these engineering firms will act as
information and promotion conduits for further subproject identification.
Technical assistance to LBL will strengthen its operations capability through
improvements in its appraisal and supervision systems.
60.       There are risks that the project could be adversely affected by the
financial condition of LBL, a lack of availability of local funds and changes
in intercational energy prices.  LBL's agreement with its founders on the
financial and institutional development programs, as embodied in its recently
approved 1986-90 plan, makes these risks acceptable. The risk that financial
strengthening will not be achieved is limited given LBL Management's
determination to improve its operational and financial performance and given
the measures which have been included in the project. Sensitivity analysis



-19-
shows that the vast majority (801) of the subprojects appraised by LBL remain
viable at oil price levels of $10 per barrel. At this level, the further
downside risk for oil prices is lw. Close monitoring by the Bank will be an
integral part of project implementation.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply-with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and reconmend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 6, 1987



- 20 -
ARM I
vap 1 of 3
1 Nl - EaZlNK Mm
Ptpeladac 23.1 illim hidi& 5)
COW Per Capita: w20ox (1985)
A tul Quoh 4at  W
(ili. Mt at                                       (at nt-n pce.) at
Indicator               currot _ich                               kANt  --o-ectsl
(1965)         IiS     196    1        195    19816 W  19B    is    tIs         .  Swi0
Ifrnerclae aqart.            10,622          -9.4     2.5   1L.4      4.8      1.7     2.2     3.8    5.0        5.5
Primryc/                    1,722          -2.3    11.3   11.6    -7A        1.5     2.0     83    6.0         3.0
wau    iictwn d/            H 9w           -9.8     0.2   113        7.5      LB      3.1     2.9    4.8       6.3
t      irdmia Tauxt          12.223         -14.0   -4.7   -1.6       0.6      6.5     3.0     4.1    24        4.0
Fraw                         4g3          -14.9   -7.1  -25.7       1.3      LA       1.2     5.3    14       11.1
Facism 4t                   3.323           03      5.8    7.5    .4.9       2.2      8S      5.5   -0.3       4.1
Mahinery  d eqdipm          3.171         -19.2   -7a.0  -11.7      2.7      9.8      2.3     3.3    4.2       3.5
OCer                        5,236         -18.6     Z.4  -0.1       03       74      0.0      3.6    3.4       3.3
FPRCES (1985 * WU0)
E t jrice  ad                  10           109     107    101       10      100
Xap-t price-  ;d               tO            93      95     9B      IlD       92
Tes of tride lIa               iOU.U        117.2   112.6  103.    100.0    109.0
Ocinition of I     dise Trde (2)                              AverW AgenulI,ncrewe (2)
(at  _mwom O~cea)                              (at cautat prics)
1960     1910    1975      1980    1985      1990             1960-70  1970-75  197540 198-05  1905-90
100.0     0O      00      100.0 10    0.0    13.0               8.1      5.7      2.9      2.2     3.7
Primary c                          49.6    29.4    19.5       21.5     10A      1b.0                -      -1.3      4.2     0.9     4.8
ma/factureedi                      50A      70.6    80.5      7a5      83.6    84.0                 -       B.1      2.3     2.3     3.7
Xqmonat11I.0    100.0    CO.0   lsu.0    100.0   1CO.                                              9.0       7.4     460    -6.8      3.8
Foo                                 9.1      7.2      5.5      7.0      4.0      6.1                -       5.0      8.7  -13.3      4.7
Prties et                           5.4      4.8     12.3     23.6    27.2      24.7                -       8.2      Li    -1.1      4.2
Ihchimry ad qmA imt                36.8    33.2    33.9       281      25.9     27.5               -        9.4      LS   -16.6    4.2
odre                               48.7    54.8    48.3       41.3    42.8      41.7                -       6.0      2.6   -5.0      3.2
Stare of Mlade with           Sare of Trde with        Sare of nude wih Capital         Smar Of kade with
Inshtrial Conries CC)             1       &tr    )        Sir>ku Oil ti    s ere (2)    Gtrtly Ptmsed   umies (2)
1965   1970    1980    1985    1965   1970   19BD  1985   1965   1970   l900  1985    1965   1970   190    V985
DnECnN; OF 7RAM
Fapoas             42.7   5b.1    37.1    35.0    14.3  [u.b   13.8   12.    0.4    0.7    2.8    1.6    42.6   32.6   46.3   51.3
Primy            65.0   74.5    52.0    53.7      5.0    3.9   10.8    9.2   0.2    0.2    1.7    0.8    29.9   21.5   35.5   36.3
ihuactuzw        fLl.t   43.7    31.7    30.1    21.5   15.2   14.9   12.9   0.6    1.0    3.2    1.8    52.3   40.1   50.3   55.2
3spar              55.3   bb.1    52.8    46.4    1.O   12.7    6.9    5.    0.1    0.1   10.2   15.5   28.6   21.1   30.1   32.3
at Projeted years at costa 1984 prices; for eah of the historical years hare yer prics ar due of dw precaaig yeer.
b/ Prelimitay; daa tn nrcouwertible currury areas is eatimted.
Zf sl= 0-4 awa 9
'd/ SIX 5-8
at rnIC 3; irnles hbricairs, ecal n el4ecriciky.
1660                                                                                                                   Sl IB
Febray 27, 1987



- 21 -
ANS I
Pap 2 of 3
nMAA - EC  CtS
Poplatiuxu 23.1 snillicn Gmid-1985)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,07M (1985]
mokt                                           Amusl Growth Rates (Z)
(million Wt at                                    (at castant price)
iicator                acwrent prima)       1tusl                                            Projected
1985           1992    1983    19       1985    1986 bI 1987     1988    1999    1990
a As
Gr-m  douetic product at     47,613          0.5   -1.0       2.0     0.5     3.6     2.9     2.9     3.4      3.5
Agriclture                  7,332          7.4    -1.0      2.2    -6.6     7.0     2.3      1.5     1.4     1.3
Industry                   24,045         -1.1    -1.9     4.1      2.0     4.0     3.5     3.5     4.1     4.7
Services                   16.Zl6          0.7   -0.3    -0.9       IA      1.9     2.b     2.6     3.4      2.7
CGxupticn                    28.297          0.5    -A.4    -0.6     0.3      3.8     1.5     2.0     2.4     3.0
Gross iwestumt               18,470         -1.3   -5.9   -4.5    -1.3        3.5     4.0     5.0     4.7     4.4
E1xPrts of CN5               14.2t0        -11.5   -0.7   1W.l    8.2         0.3     3.5     3.2     4.2     4.9
Impnrts of CNS               13.357        -15.3   -5.6    -0.4      5.0      7.3     4.0     3.2     3.0     4.5
Grt   natiaul svinBp         19.3U3         -0.6   -1.8       6.5   -0.7    -0.1      4.0     3.6     4.2      3.3
Prism
IF detlator (1985 -10)          IOD.0       25.6    35.5    54.5   10.0   195.0
Excha    rate                  270.2        50.3    92.8   152.8   270.2   377.0
eam  of OP at Market Prics (2)                             hserage Assil  ncrease CZ)
(at current pries)                                      (at cascat prices)
19fi    1970     1975    1980     1985     1990            1960-70  1970-75  1975-E0  198D-5  198540
Gross lnestic Prtux    c   lDl 100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0           5.9      6.5      4.1       0.5      3.2
Agriculture               22.5    16.1     13.8    10.9      13.9     11.2               3.3      2.9      2.0      1.3      2.3
Tcslatny                  42.2    37.4    44.3    40.2    40.7       35.1                6.3      8.3      7.5      0.8      3.9
Services                  29.0    3l    33.1    40.4       36.9     34.6                6.9      4.7      4.9      0.1      2.8
Ceuupticw                   67.2    72.8    74.3    64.4    59.4       67.5                6.5      6.9      6.3    -0.3       2.2
Cros   inesoat              36.5    32.3    33.5    39.9    38.8       30.9               4.7       5.5      5.4    -3.9       4.4
Eas aGS                     13.9    18.5    20.2    18.7    29.8       23.7               10.2     6.7       5.2      0.3      3.4
-upurts GCMS                17.5    23.5     28.0    22.9     28.1     22.1               9.8      6.7       5.0    -5.5       3.8
Gross naional savirms      32.6    29.6    25.6    36.7    40.5       31.5               5.3      6.2       3.2      1.5      3.5
As ? of CP
1960    1970     1975    1980     1985
PmIBM   FaNCE
Total revenues              27.9    33.1     36.8    32.6     27.1
Tal ewenditures             24.1    33.2    37.2    33.2      26.8
Surplus (W) or deficit (-3    +3.8   -0.1    -0.4    -0.6     +0.3
1960-70 1970-75  1975-80 198D85  198590
aUim  IWICA
GW gath rate Cl)             6.1     6.7      6.0     0.3      3.1
QW per capita gowth rate     5.0     5.8      5.1   -0.5       2.3
lIR                          5.4     4.6      5.6    37.3      7.8
lort elasticity              1.7     1.0      1.2  -10.8       1.2
a  At cket prices. Thin fige  is not ceupertle drih the GW per capita presfmted tou. bich us  bal e the wrid Bzak Atlas uedudoly.
8/Preliminary.                                                              oa 
c  At sdet rices; canhts are exprsse at factor cost axd will not add P to tl due to artlusko of nt indirect ta.
16rFuzy 27, 1987



-22 -                                                   AnIwi I
PAEp 3 of 3
1WMAVIA - CPAM  E PAnS, WOUL CAPYTAND DMe
(tl  millions)
Paplution: 23.1 taillin (id-1985)
0G  Per Caita: UL2.070 (1955)
Indicator                                                         Actual                                  p _     .tee
1982     1983    198.    1985  _1986 J/ 1987    1988    199          1990
WBA      l (F PAM
lcpit. of goods ax  services                       15,244  14,715  15,301  15,851   16,827   18,127  19,323  21,421   23,664
of biic: Mechidise f.o.b.                         9,92M    9,693   10,136  10,622   11,250  12,050  14,655  16,462   18,631
Yoprts of swo  wd  srvice.                         15,8S1   14,504   14,84   15,021   16,101   17,627  18,723  20,821   23,064
of vhich: l4ediadise c.i.f.                      12,810   11,825  *1,9U2  12,223   13,051   14,210  15,458   15,827   16,458
Curruit accomxt balace                               -Z24     211      477      833     726      SW       (D      bUw      cm
Nlec                       Z                          357     569    -281    -181  -1,178    -250    -400    -400    -100
Other Capital b/                                     -745  -1.135      338    -443    1,518        U        0       0        0
auF  in reser                                       1,012      53    -534    -209    -386    -250    -200    -200    -200
Intenstionsl resawes e/                             1,677    1,622    2,U56   2,365    2,751    3,001   3,201   3,401    3,60l
Of11 &ftE   Gold (offi.ii valuation                  78      78       78       78       78      78       78      78       78
kesves as acthn imports                                 1.3     1.3      1.8      1.9     2.0      2.0      2.1     2.0      1.9
9    L  CamALRV  flr
-r s didawsamients, M.?                             2,314   3,710   2,9b7   3,236   2,878
officia credits                                    471      493      429      775   1,822
multilaterl                                     3414    292      406      295     471,
IIMD                                         330     292      406      295     184
Dilatersl                                       128     20        24     480   1,38 di
Private cteditors and ort-guaranteed              1,8S3    3,217   2,518   2,461    1.05b
Ecteai debt
Dch ontstaidingai
dtatieir/ aJ                                   20,01b  20,516  20.232  20,695  20,961 f
Debt seraim I/
Tal service pawonte                               4,006   4,529   5,065   5,251    5,"
Intret                                          2,049   1,688    1,837    1,834    1,590
lm,rtizaticon                                   1,957   2,814l   3,228   3,417   4,056al
Pay..r    as X ecports                              26.3    30.8    33.3    33.1    33.6
Avaxe irest rate on rw Ioar () W   /                   14.0    10.6      9.5      9.5     8.1
Average aetty of ne loans (years)                      9.4    10.5       6.3     8.5      9.5
di prelimirUy estimte.
i  Inrludes ei e  rate variation effects and errors aid azisions.
I       clud  gmss fotein assets of cmerial barks.
Imluding ref ied micities
l Includeg *ot-temn debts.
*U/  ~  i,C?ese i  MD in 195 reflects  uCiaXk a curries a              s        .
1  Debt service ealudele  ausrtizatim  in interest on   ortern det. ir      e etie.
al Pblic and pPlcly  sranted debts only.
February 27, 1987
.,   .    \   .



-23-
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of September 30, 1986
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 11
US$ Million
Amount (Less
Loan   Fiscal                                                  Cancellations
No.    Year      Borrower(s)              Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
Sixty-two loans fully disbursed               2,694.5       -
1561    1978  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Hydropower                73.0       2.1
1561-1  1984  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Mostar Suppl. Loan        61.0      25.0
1756    1980  Zagrebacka Banka       Croatia Sava Drainage    51.0        3.5
1801    1980  Vojvodjanska Ranka     Agric. Credit III         78.8       4.4
1909    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Industrial Credit V      50.0        2.4
1911    1981  Ivesticiona Banka
Titograd             Industrial Credit V       20.0       0.4
1951.   1981  Investbanka            AgrlAgroindustries        54.6       5.5
1977    1981  Pristina Railway Org.  Railways                  31.1       7.3
1993    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Agric/Agroindustries      70.0      35.4
2039    1982  Stopanska Ranka Skopje Agriculture .             55.0      22.9
2055.   1982  Radna Org. Vodovod     Kosovo Water Supply       23.0       0.3
2132    1982 Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Industrial Credit VI     33.0        1.9
-* . ; 2133    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit VI       33.0       8.4
2136    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Agriculture Dev.          22.2       4.4
2161    1982  Privredna Banka        Drainage                  19.0       3.6
.:'j ,Sarajevo
*-v. -  ,2230.6  1983  Reg. Work Org. KOMPRED Tuzla Water Supply       5.7       0.6
-2306 ;1983  Kosovw-ka Banka
Pristina             Kosovo Regional Devt.    79.0       65.8
-   2307    1983  Udruzena Beogradska
Banka                Serbia Regional De-t.    94.0       46.3
2336    1984  Four Railway Org.      Railways VI              110.0      49.6
2338    1984  Eight Power Org.       Power Transmission III  115.0      111.9
i1 The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate-
report on all Baik/IDA financed projects in execution, which is ujdated twice
-    Nyearly and,t rculated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
4   ~       ~~~ 1
,'a . ;      



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
USS Million
Amount (Less
Loan     Fiscal                                                Cancellations)
No.     Year     Borrowr(s)              Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
2339     1984 Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Ildustrial Credit VII    45.0      37.9
2340     1984 Investiciona Iauka
Titograd             Industrial Credit VII    25.0        9.9
2467     1985 Investiciona ftmka     Montenegro Reg'l Devt.   40.0       40.0
2527     1985 Elek. Bonne I
Hercegovine          Visegrad Hydropower     125.0       93.3
2595     1985 IN-NAFTAPLIN           Firt Petroleum Sector   55.0        55.0
2596     1985 NAFTAGAS               First Petroleum Sector   35.0       35.0
2597     1985 Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             First Petroleum Sector    2.5        2.5
1715 ,1  1986 Four Road Org.         Bighway Sector I         121.5     121.5
Total (le8s cancellations)                   4,221.9
Of which:  Repaid                          1,232.2
Total Outstandin                             2,989.7
Amount Sold & Repaid                                        9.2
Total now held by the Bak                    2,980.5
Total undisbursed                                        816.7
/1 Not yet signed.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                   Type of           Amount ia US$ million
Year              Obligor               Business          Loan      Equity    Total
1970    international lnvestment        Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia      Corporation    -           2.0        2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat       Automotive
1980      S.p.A.                           Industry        12.4       0.6      13.0
1971/   Tovarna Automobilov in          Automotive
1980/87   Motoriev Maribor (TAM)           Industry
Klockner-Eumboldt                                34.2      0.9       35.1
Deutz A.G. (KID)
1972/   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler      Automotive
1980      Benz A.G.                        Industry        16.3       0.8      17.1
1972/78 Sava Semperit                   Tires              12.5       2.5      15.0
/80
1986    Unia/Tovarna Glinice in         Non-Ferrous        34.3       -        34.3
Aluminija                       Metal
1973    Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper    70.9         -        70.9
1974    Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO        Special Steel      10.0       -        10.0
1974    Salonit Anhovo                  Cement Plant       10.0       -        10.0
1975    RMK Zenica                      Steel              50.0       -        50.0
1977    Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute  Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                  Processing        4.0      2.4        6.4
1977    Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp and Paper
Cazin                           Products         15.6      2.6       18.2
1978    Soko-Mostar                     Hermetic
Compressors      7.0       -         7.0
1980    Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Jdruzena Banka                Tourism            21.0      -         21.0
1980    Radoje Dakic                    Machinery          18.7       -        18.7
1980    Eight RepublicanfProvincial    Sall-Scale
Banks                           Enterprises      30.2      -         30.2
1982    Igalo                           Physical
Medicine
Center          14.8       -        14.8
1982    Industrija za automobilski      Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto   Accessories       10.6      -         10.6
1983    LBZB                            Development
Finance         31.4       -        31.4
1985    INA-Naftaplin                   Chemicals &
Petrochem.      37.8       -        37.8
1985    Sour Energoinvest               Power Trans.
Line            14.8       -        14.8
1985    Iskra                           Teleconmun.        24.1      -         24.1
1986    Ljubljanska Banka (LB)          Export Oriented
Projects        69.3       -        69.3
1986    Jugobanka                       Ben. Manufac.      35.5                35.5
Total Gross Comuitments                           584.7    11.8       596.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                       241.5     5.2       246.7
Total commitments held by IFC                     343.2     6.6       349.8
Total undisbursed held by IFC                      75.4     0.8        76.2
including participants portion



-26-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUBSTITUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section r - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by agencies to prepare    About 7 months
the project.                         -(November 1984 to Kay 1985)
(b) Agencies which prepared the            Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana
project:                              (LBL), with the assistance of
technical enterprises.
(c)  Date of Borrower's request for        May 16, 1984
Bank financing for the project:
(d)  Date of Appraisal mission             May 1985
departure:
(e)  Date of Negotiations completed:       February 1987
(f)  Date of Loan Effectiveness Planned:  July 1987
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Retroactive financing of goods and services for subprojects up to a
total of $3 million and of equipment and services up to $200,000 for technical
assistance from November 15, 1985 (para. 57).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) LBL would not change without the Bank's agreement the provisions
of its medium-term plan pursuant to which LBL would: Ci) eliminate
the existing imbalance between its foreign exchange assets and
liabilities over the 1986-88 period; and (ii) write-off the foreign
exchange losses from annual earnings over the 1986-90 period. In
future years foreign exchange imbalances would be converted into
dinars and losses written off in the year in which they arise (para.
45 & 46).
(b) IBL to increase its Joint Liability Fund to 5Z and the Reserve
Fund to 5% by 1990. In order to achieve these targets, LBL to
increase between 1986 and 1990 its spread and comuissious as needed
to meet the targeted levels (para. 46).



-27-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Bank funds onlent to subborrovers would be at the prevailing Bank
variable rate plus a coumission to cover LBL's costs, and expenses,
including loss write-offs and contributions to reserve funds.
Domestic funds onlent from LBL's own resources for energy related
loans vill be at a rate to be adjusted not less than once each
calendar quarter, beginning in 1987, to ensure a minimum reduction in
negativity each year of 31 in real terms from the 1986 level of 181,
including an onlending spread at a level sufficient to cover LBL's
costs and expenses, including loss write-offs and contributions to
reserve funds. LBL will furnish by September 30, in draft and by
December 31 of each year in final, a satisfactory plan to the Bank
for the level of spread or cosmission to be charged during the
following year on all its variable interest rate loans and new loans
(para. 54).



4



