Report No. 1729b-ZA                                                           E      L 
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
Zambia
April 17, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =      Kwacha (K)
US$1.00                   =      K 0.8
K 1.00                    =      US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       -      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )              0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =      2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA        -  Canadian International Development Agency
MLGH        - Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MPW         - Ministry of Public Works
MSB         - Mechanical Services Branch
MTPC        - Ministry of Transport, Power, and Communications
NCDP        -  National Commission for Development Planning
NTC         -  National Transport Corporation
PRE         -  Provincial Road Engineer
RC          -  Rural Council
RD          - Roads Department
RTC         -  Road Traffic Commissioner
SNDP        -  Second National Development Plan
TAZARA      -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TNDP        -  Third National Development Plan
vpd         -  vehicles per day
ZR          -  Zambia Railways
ZTRS        -  Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



OR OFflCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .          ........................ .i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION .................................. *    ..........    I
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . .......................  .  . ...........    I
A.   Economic Setting ..............1....................... 
B.   The Transport System .................................    2
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination ..........    4
D.   Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector .            5
3.   HIGHWAYS ..........                  .......... . ..........    6
A.   The Network .....................................                 6
B.   Traffic Growth and Characteristics ..................        .    7
C.   Administration  ...................................    8
D.   Training .......*.............................  ...    10
E.   Expenditure and Financing ............. ................   11
F.   Planning ..**.................... 12
G.   Engineering and Construction ........................    13
H.   Maintenance ..................................... ..*.   13
4. THE PROJECT                           .14
A. Objectives .14
B.   Description ............                         ..  ... 14
C.   Cost Estimates ....................          ....... .   17
D.   Financing .....................                                  19
E. Execution and Procurement ..20
F.   Disbursements  .......                          .      ..        20
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..........                   .      .21
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS           .     .    .23
This report was prepared by S. Kathuria (Engineer), M. Mason (Economist),
J. Damron (Project Assistant) and P. Brereton (Editor).
This document has a rtrkiced distifbutin   smay be usd by rcipients only in the performance
Of their oMCial dutbs. Its contents nmy not otherwie be discsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Zambia's Imports and Exports by Routes (1970-76)
2.   Road Network Maintained by Roads Department
3.   New Registration of Motor Vehicles (1970-75)
4.   Roads Department Training School Courses
5.   Roads Department Highway Expenditures
6.   Capital and Recurrent Expenditures
7.   Roads Included in the Project for Periodic Maintenance
8.   Road Maintenance Equipment Needs of Roads Department
9.   Road Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
10.   Road Maintenance Equipment to be Rehabilitated
11.   Workshop Equipment and Tools to be Purchased
12.   Training Aids to be Purchased
13.   Technical Assistance to be Provided
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
I    Terms of Reference for a Study of MSB Reorganization
II.   Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
III.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
IV.   Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
I.   Organization of the Roads Department (World Bank 17992)
II.   Organization of the Rural Councils (World Bank 17993)
III.   Organization of the Mechanical Services Branch (World Bank 17994)
IV.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Republic of Zambia - Third Highway Project - Highway Network
(IBRD 12934)



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Zambia has requested Bank Group assistance
in financing a project to improve maintenance of the country's rapidly de-
teriorating road network in order to safeguard the high level of investment
already made in roads. The network is essential not only to facilitate
internal and external trade, but also to provide the widely scattered rural
population with access to markets and to health and education facilities.
ii.       The project consists of:  (i) a maintenance program for the primary
and secondary road network; (ii) procurement of road maintenance and workshop
equipment, spare parts, tools and training aids; (iii) rehabilitation of
existing equipment; (iv) a pilot rural road maintenance program; (v) a feasi-
bility study, and if justified, detailed engineering of a road or roads; and
(vi) technical assistance needed for project implementation.
iii.      The proposed investment is economically sound, yielding a rate of
return of 44% for the whole project. Both the routine maintenance and periodic
maintenance programs also have rates of return of 44% each.
iv.       The total project cost is estimated at US$26.7 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$22.5 million. No taxes and duties are involved.
The project will be financed by an IDA credit and a Bank loan totalling US$22.5
million (US$11.25 million each) which will cover about 84% of total project
costs and 100% of foreign costs. The Government will contribute US$4.2 mil-
lion which will cover the project's remaining costs.
v.         Responsibility for implementing the project will be divided among
the Roads Department under the Ministry of Public Works, the Mechanical Ser-
vices Branch under the Defense Division of the President's Office, and the
Ministry of Local Government and Housing, assisted by technical experts to be
provided. Project implementation is expected to begin in mid-1978 and end
in mid-1982.
vi.       Procurement will be as follows:  new road maintenance and workshop
equipment, including spare parts, estimated to cost about US$11.6 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies, will be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; training aids
and spare parts for existing equipment, estimated to cost about US$1.5 mil-
lion equivalent, excluding contingencies, will be procured in accordance with
Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory. Similarly equip-
ment, materials and other items required for the pilot rural road maintenance
program will also be procured according to normal Government procedures.
Consultants will be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group (i) to reorganize MSB; (ii) to assist with preparation of bidding



documents for road maintenance and workshop equipment, tender procedures
and evaluation of bids; and (iii) to undertake feasibility and detailed
engineering studies.
vii.      With the agreements and under the conditions indicated in paras.
6.01 - 6.03, the project is suitable for an IDA credit and a Bank loan
totalling US$22.5 million (US$11.25 million each). The IDA credit would
be on standard terms and the Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, in-
cluding 5 years of grace.



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Zambia and the Bank Group have discussed a possible
road project since the early 1970's but were unable to agree on the project's
content. This was primarily because the Government favored a construction
program while the Bank saw the need to improve road maintenance, particularly
since road maintenance was steadily deteriorating during the 1970's. More
recently, however, Government has realized the importance of road maintenance
as a means of reducing transport costs, preserving external trade routes, and
ensuring integrated development for the country by improving transportation
infrastructure. Subsequently, during a preappraisal mission in 1976, an
agreement was reached on the urgent need to improve maintenance planning and
operations. The Government of Zambia has consequently requested Bank Group
assistance in financing a project to improve the maintenance of its rapidly
deteriorating road network by strengthening the existing institutions for
maintenance through the provision of equipment and technical assistance. The
Project was prepared by the Roads Department (RD) and the Mechanical Services
Branch (MSB), with the assistance of Bank Group staff.
1.02      The project includes components to (i) strengthen RD's capacity to
plan and execute road maintenance; (ii) reorganize and assist MSB in improving
equipment availability; (iii) improve the capacity of Rural Councils (RCs) to
plan and carry out road maintenance on rural roads; and (iv) finance a feasi-
bility study and, if justified, detailed engineering for the upgrading to
bituminous standards of the Mansa-Nchelenge road (240 km) or such other road
or roads as may be agreed between Government and the Bank Group.
1.03      This report is based on findings of two appraisal missions which
included Satdev Kathuria (Engineer), Melody Mason (Economist) and Janet
Damron (Project Assistant). The report was edited by Patricia Brereton.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Zambia, a landlocked country in the southern half of Africa, shares
common borders with Angola, Zaire, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia,
Botswana and Namibia. Covering an area of about 750,000 km , the country is
predominantly a plateau, with swamps and valleys along the Zambezi River
which forms the country's southern border. Although about the size of France,
Zambia has a small population of approfimately 5 million, with an av~rage
population density of 6 persons per km overall, but only 3.6 per km in



- 2 -
rural areas. The urban population comprises about 35% of the total popula-
tion. Urbanization has been rapidly increasing; although overall population
growth is estimated at 3% p.a., population in urban areas increased by
almost 7% p.a. from 1969-74, as compared to a 1% growth in rural areas during
the same period.
2.02      GNP per capita is about US$440 (1976 estimate); between 1965 and
1976 real GDP grew at a rate of only 2.8% p.a., approximately equal to the
rate of population growth. Copper mining continues to dominate the economy,
accounting for more than 90% of exports and about 21% of GDP in 1976. Aggre-
gate growth has been slow due to near stagnation in mining and a low growth
rate in agriculture. Economic activity is concentrated along the "line-of-
rail"  a narrow north-south strip, running along the railway through central
Zambia.
2.03      Since imports and exports account for about half the value of
Zambia's GDP, the country is particularly dependent on its transport network
and its access to ports through neighboring countries. To maintain economic
activity at current levels, about 2.5 million tons of cargo (including oil)
mus;I move in and out of the country each year. This has led to an emphasis
on external trade routes in transport investment, as well as internal trans-
port development within the line-of-rail corridor. Recently, however, the
Government has been focusing increased attention on agriculture and rural
development and has consequently begun to extend its transport policies to
developing the transport system in the rest of the country.
B. The Transport System
2.04      The transport system comprises approximately 35,000 km of roads,
2,000 km of railways, 150 airports and a 1,700 km oil pipeline from Dar
es Salaam to Ndola in the copper producing area. To overcome its landlocked
situation, priority in transport development has been given to outlets to the
sea. Traditionally, railways carried the bulk of Zambia's external trade,
but because of recent political developments resulting in the loss of external
railway connections in Rhodesia and Angola, a large proportion of trade has
been carried by road transport through Tanzania, Malawi and, more recently,
Mozambique. The internal transport system has mainly developed along the
line-of-rail, since this area contains most of the important mining and
industrial concerns in the country, and nearly all of the urbanized popula-
tion. In recent years, however, greater emphasis has been given to provinces
away from the line-of-rail, and in particular to providing paved road access
to provincial centers. Chapter 3 gives more details of the road subsector.
Railways
2.05      Zambia has two railways operated by different entities.  Zambia
Railways (ZR) extends from Victoria Falls Bridge on the Rhodesian border to
the Copperbelt area in the north where it links up, via Zaire, with the
Benguela railway to the Angolan port of Lobito. The Tanzania-Zambia Railway
(TAZARA) links up with ZR at Kapiri Mposhi and extends to the port of
Dar es Salaam in Tanzania. A feasibility study is presently underway for
another railway linking Zambia with the Malawi Railway.
.A



-3-
Zambia Railway
2.06      ZR is an independent railway, with a main line of 827 km and sub-
sidiary lines of 250 km, principally serving mines, refineries and other
industries in the Copperbelt area. The railway suffered fr-om serious opera-
tional and administrative problems when it separated from Rhodesia Rail-
ways in 1967, but its performance improved considerably under the management
of Canadian National Railways (1970-75). Government subsidies for the railway
from 1972 to 1975 amounted to K 14.0 million, but after a tariff structure
reform in 1975, ZR broke even in 1976. Also, more recently, it has been
attempting to correct one of its major problems, a shortage of rolling stock,
by seeking funds from external sources. Freight and passenger traffic have
decreased since 1972. ZR's international freight traffic in 1975 (90 million
ton-kilometers) showed a decline of more than 75% from 1972 due to closure of
the border with Rhodesia in 1973 and the suspension of services on the Benguela
Railway in Angola in 1975. A significant proportion of the external trade
lost by ZR has been transported by road.  ZR's domestic freight also decreased
by about 40% from 1972 to 1975, when it totalled about 920 million ton-kilo-
meters; domestic passenger traffic, amounting to some one million passengers
in 1975, dropped by 25% from 1972. Poor internal services have caused some
commodities, like coal, to be transported over comparatively long distances
by road, at higher cost than by rail.
Tanzania-Zambia Railway
2.07      TAZARA is jointly owned by the governments of Zambia and Tanzania.
Its construction, financed by a Chinese loan of about K 200 million, started
in 1970 and services began in October of 1975. The railway's route kilometer-
age totals some 1,850 km, of which 880 km are inside Zambia. The Chinese
assist in managing the railway and are expected to remain in that capacity
until at least 1980. Freight capacity, which is now 2 million tons p.a.,
can eventually be increased to 5 million tons. However, only about 1,240
million ton-kilometers (675,000 tons) of freight were transported by TAZARA in
1976 due to certain technical problems, which have since been resolved, and more
seriously, a much longer than estimated turnaround time caused by long delays
in ZR's loading operations. Consequently, over 800,000 tons of external trade
was still being moved by road in 1976.
Air Transport
2.08      There are 150 airports in Zambia, 52 of which are Government owned.
Lusaka International Airport handles all international traffic. The national
air transport company, Zambia Airways Corporation, established in 1967, has
received assistance from Alitalia, and more recently, Aer Lingus, under man-
agement contracts. Operating with three Boeing 707s, one Boeing 737, and four
Hawker Siddley 748s, the airline's estimated international passenger traffic
in 1976 was 77,000, domestic passenger traffic some 167,000, and about
21,000 tons in international air freight traffic. After several years of
operational losses, ranging from K 1.0 to 3.0 million p.a., Zambia Airways
incurred only a small loss in 1976 and expects to break even in 1977.



-4-
Pipeline
2.09       A 1,700 km pipeline, completed in 1968 and jointly owned and oper-
ated by the Tanzanian and Zambian Governments, carried practically all of
Zambia's crude oil imports, amounting to 850,000 tons in 1976, and a further
50,000 destined for Zaire.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.10       Before Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965,
practically all of Zambia's external trade passed through Rhodesia and the
Mozambique port of Beira. After the border closure with Rhodesia in 1973,
a Contingency Planning Office was set up under the President's Office in
order to ensure efficient routing of trade. Until 1975, about 50% of external
trade was rerouted through Angola via the Benguela Railway, about 35-40% went
by road to the port of Dar es Salaam, and the rest was routed through various
other ports and by air (Table 1). In 1975, when events in Angola severely
restricted and eventually halted the operations of the Benguela Railway,
Zambian goods were diverted to TAZARA, while the remaining traffic continued
to go by road to Dar es Salaam and other ports. It has been estimated that,
after the border closure in 1973, the average cost per ton of inland transport
between Zambia and coastal ports rose 55% above the average cost in 1972,
mainly because long-distance road transport is more costly than rail service.
2.11       Government seeks to maintain control of external trade through the
two national railways and through the two companies primarily responsible for
international road haulage, the parastatal National Transport Corporation
(NTC), and the Zambia-Tanzania Road Services (ZTRS), an associate company of
NTC. ZTRS operates on the Dar es Salaam route, and Contract Haulage, a sub-
sidiary company of NTC, mainly operates on the Beira (Mozambique) route, via
Malawi.
2.12       Internal road haulage is usually undertaken by private operators
(para. 3.05). Road haulage rates vary for different routes and commodities,
but the overall level is generally set by the parastatal transport companies.
Government has controlled tariff increases by refusing to grant parastatal
companies permission to raise tariffs. However, although NTC is running at
a loss, tariffs still seem to be profitable for private operators.
Planning
2.13       The Ministry of Transport, Power and Communications (MTPC) is
responsible for transport planning, but has little real planning capacity;
recent attempts to set up a Transport Planning Unit within the Ministry have
not been successful. The actual process of planning is carried out by the
government agencies concerned, and highway planning is undertaken by RD under
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). An integrated long-term sectoral plan,



-5-
which will be part of the Third National Development Plan (TNDP), is presently
being drawn up for 1978-82 by a Transport Coordinating Committee, formed by
the National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP). The Corimsittee
consists of representatives of the Contingency Planning Office, NCDP, MTPC,
the national transport companies and other ministries. The final sector plan
will take account of the subsectoral plans recommended by contributing subcom-
mittees, including one for roads. The TNDP was meant to have taken effect
from the beginning of 1978, but has now been indefinitely postponed by the
Government because of Zambia's uncertain economic: situation.
2.14      The Second National Development Plan (SNDP) (1972-76, later ex-
tended to 1977), allocated K 311 million to the transport sector, 28% of
total public investment. Funds allocated to the transport sector were used
for: constructioni of TAZARA (40%); ZR, the oil pipeline, and air and water
transport (33%); and road construction (27% or K 83.0 million). The latter
appears to have been reasonable given the already extensive length of Zambia's
road network (para. 3.01). The railway and pipeline projects have been
completed, but several road projects are unfinished (para. 3.21).
2.15      It is important that investment plans for external transport take
into account the many transport alternatives which will arise in the future.
The reopening of the Benguela Railway and/or the border with Rhodesia will
bring about surplus transport capacity since, once in full operation, TAZARA
alone can carry all of Zambia's imports and exports:. However, when risk
considerations are taken into account, it is unlikely that Zambia will depend
on any one external route, particularly in view of events that have recently
disrupted transportation in neighboring countries. Also, an additional factor
affecting external transport will be the availability and capacity of seaports
in those countries.
D.  Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
2.16      The Bank Group has financed two road projects in Zamrbia.  The first
loan (469-ZA) for US$17.5 million was approved in 1966 and financed.
(i) the engineering, reconstruction and bituminous paving of
sections of the Great East Road (251 miles) and Great
North Road (122 miles); and
(ii)  consultant services for detailed engineering and super-
vision of construction.
The project was satisfactorily completed on time in 1969 at a total cost of
US$23.4 million, lower than the estimated cost of US$29.0 million, The Project
Performance Audit Report 1/ (PPAR) did not recalculate the rate of return due
to lack of data on road user costs. However, since there were savings in
construction costs and increases in traffic volumes above appraisal estimates,
the actual economic return should have been higher than tne 11-14% originally
estimated.
1/   One PPAR (December 10, 1973) was done for both projects.



- 6 -
2.17      A second project, financed by Loan 563-ZA for US$10.7 million and
approved in 1968, provided for:
(i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous paved standard of
one section (235 miles) of the Great North Road;
(ii) three weighbridges on the Great North Road; and
(iii) consultant services for detailed engineering and
supervision of construction.
This project was also completed on time with a minor cost overrun of US$300,000
above appraisal estimates - US$17.8 million against US$17.5 million. A rate
of return was not calculated in the PPAR but since traffic levels were higher
than expected, the Report estimated that the 12-15% rate of return forecast
at appraisal was realized.
2.18      The PPAR indicates that both projects achieved their main objectives
of providing Zambia with improved alternative routes to the sea and that,
given the region's political uncertainties, the Bank had used good judgment
in not developing the internal highway network at that time. The Bank was,
however, unsuccessful in its efforts to gain Government compliance with a
loan covenant requiring proper maintenance of the road network, and consequently
the condition of the network has deteriorated, leading to the need for develop-
ing the present project. Enforcement of vehicle axle load regulations and
Zambianization of RD's managerial staff were also described as unsatisfactory
in the PPAR, and both issues are addressed in this project (paras. 3.08 and
4.14).
3. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      Zambia has about 35,000 km of designated roads.  RD maintains about
19,000 km of these roads (Table 2) which are designated as International Main
(T) and Main (M) roads, forming the primary system linking provincial capitals
with neighboring countries and with one another, as well as District (D) roads,
which form the secondary system linking the primary network with district
headquarters and other centers of economic activity. The road network
administered by RD comprises about 4,600 km (24%) of paved, about 7,600 km
(40%) of gravel all-weather, and about 6,800 km (36%) of earth roads; paved
roads increased from about 4,000 km to 4,600 km between 1972-75.
3.02      RCs administer about 16,000 km of Rural District roads which form
the tertiary system serving local population centers and agricultural areas.
These are generally low standard earth roads for which no reliable inventory
exists. The Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program in the proposed project
will institute a system for preparing road inventories in the area to be
selected for inclusion in the program (para. 4.09).



B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
3.03      In 1975, the vehicle fleet consisted of about 160,000 vehicles, of
which 59% were automobiles, 18% light commercial vehicles, 11% trucks, and
12% other types of vehicles. Overall, the fleet has been growing at 9% p.a.
since 1970 (Table 3), although annual registration of new vehicles has gene-
rally been decreasing, probably due to the declining economic situation and
the import license restrictions imposed during the late 1960s and 1970s.
Most vehicles are licenced in Lusaka, though no fleet statistics are avail-
able by area. Trucks with capacities of 30 tons and more, having axle loads
greater than the 10 ton limit, became common after 1973 when interruptions in
external rail connections caused an increase in goods transported by road
(para. 2.04).
3.04      The collection and compilation of traffic data is the responsi-
bility of RD's Statistics and Ordinance Unit which is presently staffed by
one senior engineer assistant and a clerk. Counts are taken at 58 traffic
points for 7 days and 2 nights in July of every year, at the peak of the
harvest. According to these counts, traffic on the primary and secondary
roads has been growing at about 7% p.a. since 1969. Fifty percent of inter-
national and main roads have over 400 vehicles per day (vpd), and another 25%
have between 200-400 vpd. Highest traffic volumes are found in the Copper-
belt area and along the line-of-rail to Lusaka. Heavy traffic (over 5 ton
trucks) amounts to 30% of total traffic, although in the Copperbelt it is
often as high as 40%. The traffic counting system is unsatisfactory, and
the reliability of existing traffic data is questionable, particularly on
district roads. Counts are taken by maintenance gangs who do not understand
the significance of the task and receive little instruction or supervision.
The project will address this problem (para. 4.11).
3.05      Out of the total number of vehicles engaged in road haulage
(approximately 2,500 - 3,000), about 40% are operated by NTC and ZTRS (para.
2.11) and the rest by small independent private operators owning an average
of 5-10 trucks each. Lower tonnage vehicles prevail within the private
sector, whereas heavy vehicles prevail within the parastatal organizations.
Private operators are primarily engaged in internal transportation although
NTC and ZTRS also subcontract private transporters on the international
routes at officially established tariffs.
3.06      The United Bus Company of Zambia, a subsidiary of NTC, accounts for
about half of total road passenger transport capacity, which includes about
75% of total bus and 27% of taxi service capacity. Private operators provide
the remaining passenger transport. Passenger transport is hampered by a
single countrywide tariff per km for all bus services which has led private
operators to avoid providing service on low standard roads since tariffs do
not reflect costs; there is, however, intense competition among private
operators on long distance routes.
3.07      All vehicles must be registered and licensed.  Public service
vehicles require a road service license which is issued by the Road Traffic
Commissioner (RTC) after he and a Road Transport Panel have considered the



- 8 -
application. The RTC decides the conditions of license "as he may think
fit" which often leads to arbitrary decisions. Licenses for road transport
of goods specify the route(s)/area on which the vehicles can operate, the
type of goods to be carried, and may establish the rates to be charged for
the service. The Government needs to review its licensing system since
present procedures do not allow for flexibility of operations. One of the
duties of the transport economist included in technical assistance under
the project (para. 4.11) will be to review the licensing system and sub-
mit recommendations for reform to the Government.
3.08      The Roads and Road Traffic Act, which governs vehicle weights
and dimensions and provides adequate legislation to protect the road network,
limits the maximum axle load to 10 tons, and the maximum permissible gross
weight of vehicles to 40 tons. Axle loads, 1'owever, are often grossly ex-
ceeded, and overweight vehicles are common on Zambia's roads. The situation
should be somewhat alleviated once the bulk of external trade is moved by
rail (para. 2.15) and once ZR obtains sufficient rolling stock so that more
bulk cargo can be transported by rail on internal routes (para. 2.06). How-
ever, although this will mean a reduction in the volume of heavy vehicles,
traffic legislation will still need to be enforced for the remaining heavy
traffic. Past efforts have been ineffectual because weighbridges are open
only during the day, and RD, which is responsible for operating the six
weighbridges (one of which is inoperative) has not been able to force drivers
to unload or shift cargo. Although persistent offenders receive warning
letters from RD, few are ever prosecuted. However, RD is already seeking
assistance from the RTC to improve enforcement. The Government agreed that it
will take all such actions as shall be necessary to ensure enforcement of the
legal dimensions, axle loads, and weight limits of vehicles.
C. Administration
Roads Department
3.09      RD, under MPW, is responsible for construction and maintenance of
the primary and secondary road network. It has central services in Lusaka
and nine provincial divisions, each headed by a Provincial Road Engineer
(PRE). The central services include divisions of Planning and Design, Works,
and Administration. PREs are responsible for road maintenance and minor
design and construction work in their respective regions. The organization
structure of RD is shown in Chart I.
3.10      One of the major constraints on RD's activities has been the short-
age of qualified staff, both at headquarters and in the provinces, because of
the departure of technical staff after Zambia's independence and the shortage
of qualified Zambian engineers. Only 17 of 29 established posts of Engineer,
and 11 of 17 posts of Road Inspector are presently filled. The position of
Chief Materials Officer is also vacant, as are a number of subordinate posts
(3 Materials Officers, 10 Engineering Assistants). Government is trying to
overcome the staff shortage by engaging qualified personnel either locally
or from overseas. Four key posts, three of Senior Executive Engineer and
one of Chief Materials Officer, are essential for RD to function adequately;



- 9 
agreement has been obtained from Government that these key posts will be
filled by September 30, 1978 by employing additional staff with appropriate
qualifications and experience.
3.11      Previous Bank Group projects stressed the importance of Zambian-
ization of RD staff, and this policy was adopted by Government but without
much success because of competition from the private sector and the limited
number of Zambian engineering graduates. The situation has, however, improved
in the last two years, and the post of Director of Roads as well as seven
other senior positions are filled by nationals. This effort should continue.
The Government agreed that it will prepare, by September 30, 1978, a program
satisfactory to the Bank Group for the career development of local staff
in RD, and carry out such program thereafter.
Rural Councils
3.12      RCs under MLGH are responsible for development and maintenance of
rural district roads serving the local population and agricultural areas;
34 RCs now exist, and the establishment of 11 more is being considered. Each
Council has a department for civil works including construction and mainte-
nance of rural roads. The organization of RCs and their Public Works
Departments is shown in Chart II.
3.13      Maintenance of rural roads is practically nonexistent because RCs
lack the required skills and resources. Because of the lack of skilled
manpower for road maintenance, available equipment and labor are mainly
used for other types of public works, and road maintenance is done only
sporadically. The Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program included in the
project will assist in determining how maintenance planning and operations
of RC roads can be improved (para. 4.09).
Mechanical Services Branch
3.14      MSB, previously under civilian administration in the former Ministry
of Power, Transport and Works (MPTW), was brought under military control
in 1974 under the Defense Division of the President's Office.  This did not,
however, change MSB's functions which were to procure, maintain and repair
only civilian government vehicles and plant.  Although management of MSB is
in the hands of the military, most of its staff is civilian.  Of the 24
senior-level management positions, 10 are held by army personnel, 6 by
civilians and the rest are vacant.  MSB has a central workshop in Lusaka and
9 provincial and 54 district workshops. (MSB's organization structure is
shown in Chart III). While the central and provincial workshops handle heavy
repairs for vehicles and plant, the district workshops take care of light
repairs and routine servicing. Major overhauls, however, are done only at
the central workshop. About 30% of the overall workload in MSB's workshops
relate to RD vehicles and plant.
3.15      In spite of the shift to the Defense Division, MSB has not been
functioning satisfactorily. MSB suffers from a lack of properly qualified
and experienced staff. A substantial number of posts in the lower grades



- 10 -
(mechanical superintendents, engineering assistants) are vacant, particularly
those of mechanics. Only 151 of the 191 established positions for mechanics
are presently filled, and the number of casual daily-employed mechanics is
also below the required level. The proposed project includes technical assis-
tance to help alleviate the staffing shortage and to train mechanics (para.
4.12). The equipment management, maintenance and repair systems employed in
MSB workshops are unsatisfactory; in addition, functional difficulties arise
because of MSB's position outside the normal civil service lines of communi-
cations. To help rectify this situation, the Government agreed that it will
reorganize MSB and employ consultants, to be financed under the project, to
draw up a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank Group, to improve its
efficiency. The plan will include specific recommendations for improving
organizational and operational procedures, and meeting staff requirements of
MSB. The employment of such consultants will be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness. An agreement with Government was reached that the said plan of
action will be prepared by December 31, 1978 and its implementation completed
within another nine months. Agreement was also reached with Government that
MSB will be maintained exclusively for services related to non-military vehi-
cles, equipment and plant.
D. Training
Roads Department
3.16      RD has a well-organized training school in Lusaka for lower-level
staff (plant operators, road gangers/foremen and road superintendents), with
good lodging and boarding arrangements for 48 students at a time, although
a larger number can be accommodated if necesssary. The school is well equipped
with modern plant, equipment and tools used for practical and classroom
instruction. At present, courses vary from driver education, plant and equip-
ment operation, and routine servicing to courses geared toward improving the
supervisory capabilities of road gangers/foremen and superintendents. Since
1971, approximately 1,200 employees have been trained-retrained (Table 4).
The school's output has been sufficient to cover the Department's demand for
this category of staff, and career progress for staff trained at the school
has been adequate. The school has three full-time instructors, but at present
RD is unable to assign more because of its staff shortages (para. 3.10). This
problem will be addressed by providing technical assistance under the project
(para. 4.11) to assist in improving present curricula and to teach all forms
of road maintenance including those operations which can be performed by labor-
intensive techniques. About 150 plant operators, 120 road gangers/foremen,
and 30 road superintendents will be trained under the project under programs
satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Rural Councils
3.17      NLGH operates a Training Institute in Chilimbama (20 km outside
of Lusaka) which has facilities for approximately 100 students. Most courses
are geared to secretarial and administrative personnel; there are also two
five-month courses per year for Public Works Officers.  Road foremen are
admitted to the courses, but since the curriculum mainly stresses other types



- 11 -
of civil works, the benefits for road foremen are limited. The Institute
also provides training for Plant Operators, but available training equipment
is mostly obsolete, and the results are not adequate. In order to improve
the quality of road maintenance staff in the Councils, Road Foremen and Plant
Operators should be sent for training to RD's training school. The Government
agreed that RC's road maintenance staff will be trained in the RD training
school.
Mechanical Services Branch
3.18      Although MSB currently has the necessary facilities, training equip-
ment (such as models, charts, etc), and lodging arrangements for trainees at
the Central Workshop in Lusaka, its lack of qualified instructors has pre-
vented any regularly organized training program for employees. In some
instances the suppliers of construction equipment have given classroom in-
struction and on-the-job training in the maintenance and repair of their
equipment, but this effort is insufficient. The two instructors to be
provided under the project (para. 4.12) will be responsible for organizing
a comprehensive training program, satisfactory to the Bank Group, covering
about 300 of MSB's mechanical staff.
E. Expenditure and Financing
3.19      Total expenditure on roads increased from K 9.78 million (US$12.22
million equivalent) in 1973 to K 24.13 million (US$30.16 million equivalent)
in 1976 (Table 5). The amount budgeted for 1977 is K 29.87 million (US$37.34
million equivalent). There has been a decline in real terms of the alloca-
tion of funds for road maintenance during 1970s, and present allocations are
far below requirements. The 1976 allocation was K 5.36 million although
K 13.75 million was requested by RD, and the amount allocated for 1977,
K 6.56 million, is similarly far short of the K 18 million requested. A
major portion of the amount allocated is spent on the wages of staff who are
not fully utilized for lack of plant and vehicles (para. 3.27). The funds
requested vis-a-vis those allocated during the period 1972-77 are shown
below:
K million
1972    1973    1974    1975   1976    1977
Funds requested             12.25   10.25   10.50   10.00  13.75   18.00
Funds allocated              5.38    5.45    5.75    6.29   5.36    6.56
The amounts requested by RD were based on estimates for routine and periodic
maintenance of the entire road network which would have required substantial
complementary investment in road maintenance equipment. Under the project
the estimated recurrent expenditure at current prices (Table 6) for routine
maintenance of the entire road network and periodic maintenance of selected
roads amounts to K 9.5 million (US$12.0 million equivalent) for 1979, K 15.7
million (US$19.5 million equivalent) for 1980, K 17 million (US$21.0 million



- 12 -
equivalent) for 1981 and K 14.7 million (US$18.5 million equivalent) for 1982.
Similarly, funds required for maintenance and repairs of equipment and MSB
workshops amount to K 1.4 million (US$1.7 million equivalent) for 1979, K 2.2
million (US$2.7 million equivalent) for 1980, K 3.0 million (US$3.8 million
equivalent) for 1981 and K 3.2 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) for 1982.
The Government agreed that such funds will be provided and that the Govern-
ment and the Bank will annually discuss the appropriateness of maintenance
funds allocated to RD and MSB.
3.20      Road users contribute to general Government revenues through taxes
and duties on vehicles, fuel, lubricants and spare parts, and through license
and registration fees. Total revenues collected from license fees and import
duties on vehicles are currently estimated to be about K 10 million annually.
In addition, in 1975 total tax revenue from the sale of gas was K 19.3 million
and diesel fuel K 7.3 million. Most of the taxes on gas and some tax revenues
from diesel fuel are collected from road users; it is apparent that these
revenues plus those from license fees and import duties, contributed by road
users, have covered road maintenance expenditures in the past and have
contributed to new road construction. Although road maintenance expenditures
will increase under the project (para. 3.19), revenues from road users will
still be sufficient to cover the increased costs.
F. Planning
3.21      Of the K 83.0 million allocated for roads in the SNDP, an estimated
K 80.0 million has been disbursed and a further K 15.0 million has been
allocated for ongoing projects, resulting in a K 12.0 million increase in the
road construction program. While a large part of the road construction plan
has been completed, one project, the Solwezi-Mwinilunga road is still ongoing;
another, the Samfya-Serenje road, is about to start; and a third, the Ndola-
Kitwe road, has not yet started. Also, two roads not included in the SNDP are
now under construction, the Katete-Mozambique border road and the Chipata-
Lundazi road. Most of the construction has been financed by local and Chinese
funds.  Many projects were selected in accordance with Government's policy of
connecting provincial capitals to the trunk network with paved roads. More
recently the policy has been expanded to connect provincial capitals with
one another, even though many of these roads do not appear economically
justified.
3.22      The TNDP is still being drafted, and the subcommittee for highway
and air transport planning has submitted its proposal to the Transport De-
velopment Committee. No economic studies have been undertaken for the
projects being considered for inclusion in the highway investment program,
and in the past, road construction projects have not been subject to detailed
economic evaluation. RD, however, is now anxious to improve its planning and
to expand the Planning Unit; the proposed project will assist by providing a
transport economist to develop economic criteria (para. 4.11) and by financing
a feasibility study for one of the roads proposed for inclusion in the TNDP
(para. 4.10).



- 13 -
G. Engineering and Construction
3.23      RD's Planning and Design Division carries out minor road and bridge
design using its own staff, while major design is done by foreign consultants.
Design standards, based mainly on American Association of State Highway
Officials (AASHO) standards and adapted to local conditions, are adequate.
3.24      Major construction works are put out to contract after competitive
bidding and are supervised by consultants. RD maintains a roster of contract-
ing firms, local and foreign, eligible to bid for works up to a particular
value depending upon capability and financial status. The construction
industry is dominated by local expatriates, and few Zambian contractors
are capable of undertaking large road works. Government is, however, anxious
to increase the capacity of the construction industry, and to this end has
requested Bank assistance to undertake a survey which would provide guidance
on how to promote a viable industry; a special study in this regard is inclu-
ded in the Fourth Education Project (Credit 1356-ZA). Meanwhile, RD has taken
steps to set up four force account units with construction equipment worth
about i 3 million supplied under a British grant. These units are initially
intended for the development of certain roads as part of a Provincial Feeder
Road Development Program.
H. Maintenance
3.25      RD's road maintenance organization is basically sound although
planning and coordination are virtually nonexistent. Routine maintenance
is carried out by zonal crews (122 zones in the whole network), each zone
having an average of 150 km of roads. Road camps located in each zone include
housing for the workers and their families, facilities for keeping equipment,
as well as small offices and stores for tools and essential materials. Each
zone is headed by a Road Ganger/Foreman, and four to five zones form a road
district (29 districts in all) supervised by a Road Superintendent. The Road
Superintendents (3 to 4 in a province) are responsible to a Road Inspector
stationed at provincial headquarters. Periodic maintenance such as regravel-
ling/ resealing and heavy maintenance work is carried out through special
crews (18 in all) under the Road Inspectors.
3.26      The quantity and quality of road maintenance is unsatisfactory and
has not kept pace with the expanding road network. There are no regular
programs for routine and periodic maintenance, and the road network has
consequently deteriorated. No proper records are maintained of mainte-
nance carried out, and data collected from PREs indicate that over 2,000 km
(44%) of bitumen-surfaced roads and 4,900 km (64%) of gravelled roads have
not been resealed/regravelled for some seven years or more. The more heavily
trafficked roads show pronounced deterioration; paved roads have developed
pot holes and surface cracks over long lengths while many gravel roads have
completely lost their gravel. Maintenance of earth roads has been grossly
neglected, rendering the drainage ineffective, making roads impassable
during rains.



- 14 -
3.27      RD's ability to maintain roads is primarily constrained by lack
of adequate equipment and an insufficient allocation of funds. Much of the
existing plant and vehicles are old and unserviceable; of 445 pieces of
plant, 239 (54%) are over 10 years old and beyond economic repair, and of 524
vehicles, 374 (71%) are over 7 years old and unserviceable. The situation
has been only partially alleviated by the provision of 121 graders for both
RD and the RCs from the Canadian Government. RD also lacks facilities for
servicing or day-to-day repairs of its equipment and relies entirely on MSB.
MSB's workshops suffer from lack of adequate equipment, tools and spare parts,
besides a shortage of properly qualified and experienced staff and trained
mechanics (para 3.15); as a result, RD's vehicles and plant wait for months
and, in some cases, years for repair. Consequently, equipment availability
for road maintenance is very low, around 25-30%.
3.28      The shortage of equipment coupled with the lack of adequate funds
(para. 3419) has resulted in a substantial backlog of road maintenance.
There is an urgent need for increased and improved maintenance operations,
and the proposed project is designed to aid in this task (paras. 4.04 - 4.06).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to improve the mainte-
nance of the rapidly deteriorating road network and plan for future extension
of the network.
B. Description
4.02      The project comprises:
(i)  a program to improve maintenance of the primary and
secondary road network;
(ii)  a pilot rural road maintenance program;
(iii) a feasibility study and, if justified, detailed engineer-
ing of the Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge road (240 km) or such
other road(s) as may be agreed between the Government and
the Bank Group; and
(iv) technical assistance to RD, MSB and MLGH for operations and
training.



- 15 -
(i) Highway Maintenance Program
4.03      The program, to be implemented over a 3-year period, will help
improve routine maintenance of the road network (19,000 km) administered by
RD as well as periodic maintenance of certain priority routes. It is not
possible to improve periodic maintenance simultaneously on all roads due to
the present large backlog of work and the limited availability of funds and
manpower. The project will cover the first phase of a periodic maintenance
program which will include 2,000 km of bitumen-surfaced roads and 750 km of
gravel roads that are in urgent need of resealing/regravelling; the roads
were identified by RD, with the assistance of Bank Group staff, as high
priority (Table 7). The Road Maintenance Engineers and the Transport Econo-
mist included in the technical assistance for RD (para. 4.11) will review the
selected routes and establish priorities. A second phase extending to the
rest of the network could follow in a future project. Routine maintenance of
roads will be carried out by the existing 122 zonal crews functioning under
29 road districts; heavy maintenance and resealing/regravelling will be done
by the existing 18 special crews.
4.04      To assist in carrying out the program, the project includes:
-    procurement of road maintenance equipment;
-    rehabilitation of existing equipment;
-    provision of spare parts for existing equipment;
-    procurement of workshop equipment and tools as well
as training aids;
-    assistance in reorganizing MSB; and
-    technical assistance (see paras. 4.11 - 4.12)
Equipment
4.05      Much of RD's existing road maintenance equipment is old and un-
serviceable (para. 3.27). To help correct this situation, the project
provides for the purchase of new equipment (Table 9) and the rehabilitation
of existing equipment, where economical (Table 10). The amount of equipment
to be purchased is based on the requirement of equipping present crews for
routine, heavy and periodic maintenance, determined by RD with the assist-
ance of Bank Group staff. Available equipment in serviceable condition and
that which is economically repairable have been taken into account in this
assessment (Table 8). The project also provides an initial stock of spare
parts for new equipment, spare parts for existing equipment, and a number
of mobile workshops, one for each province, for servicing and day-to-day
equipment repairs by RD.



- 16 -
Workshops
4.06      MSB's workshops have inadequate equipment and tools for servicing
and repair of vehicles and plant (para. 3.27). The project therefore provides
supplementary equipment and tools (Table 11). The project also includes some
training aids (Table 12) to assist with training of mechanics.
Consultant Services
4.07       Consultants will be engaged to assist Government in drawing up a
plan for the reorganization of MSB. Terms of reference were reviewed and
agreed with Government and are detailed in Annex I.
4.08       Consultants will be also engaged to prepare specifications and bid-
ding documents for road maintenance and workshop equipment and to assist in
bid evaluation. In order not to delay the project, assistance in reorganiz-
ing MSB and the preparation of bid documents will commence before loan/credit
effectiveness.
(ii)  Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program
4.09      RCs lack both the skills and resources to adequately develop and
maintain rural roads (para. 3.13); as a result the roads are in poor shape,
generally without proper formation or drainage, and receive little, if any,
maintenance.  Government therefore wishes to undertake a pilot program to
determine how maintenance planning and operations of RC roads can be improved.
The Rural Road Maintenance Engineer included in the technical assistance
(para. 4.13) will assist MLGH in selecting a suitable area, covering two RCs,
in which to implement the program. A notional provision has been made in the
project for setting up a few small workshops/offices, key staff housing, road
camps and basic equipment and tools. This pilot program will be prepared by
Government with Bank Group assistance and expenditure from the provision will
be on the basis of agreement on the program and its implementation.
(iii)  Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
4.10      Prorosals for the TNDP include upgrading to bituminous standard
the exiisting road between Mansa-Kawambwa and Nchelenge (240 km).  Thlis is
a poorly engineered gravel road, in places narrow and lacking adequate drain-
age. The horizontal and vertical profile of the road is generally unsatisfac-
tory. The road is important in connecting Mansa, the provincial capital, and
the rest of the country with rich fishing and agricultural areas in the north-
west of the province. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
will be financing a feeder road scheme to the north of Nchelenge in order to
facilitate the collection of fish in the area.   The project provides funding
for consultants to carry out a feasibility study and, if justified, detailed
engineering of the road. Terms of reference for the study are detailed in
Annex II. During negotiations, the Government indicated that there was a
possibility that certain other road or roads might be accorded higher priority
for development i-n the TNDP which had not yet been finalized. In such an
event, the proiect will finance studies of such other road(s) as may be agreed
between Government and the Bank Group.



- 17 -
(iv) Technical Assistance
4.11      Quantity and quality of road maintenance is unsatisfactory in the
absence of regular maintenance programs (para. 3.26). To help correct this
problem, the project will include three Road Maintenance Engineers to assist
in planning, coordinating and implementing a maintenance program, training of
counterparts, and improving the traffic count system. The project will also
provide one transport economist to assist with highway planning, project
evaluation, maintenance programming and reviewing the country's road haulage
licensing system (paras. 3.07, 3.22 and 4.03), and two training experts for
RD's training school who will help alleviate the shortage of instructors
(para. 3.16).
4.12      The project also includes technical assistance for MSB.  Based
on present needs, 22 positions have been identified for technical assistance
to help alleviate the staffing shortage in MSB's workshops; these include 20
mechanical superintendents and 2 training experts. Two of the experts will
assist at the headquarters workshop; each of the nine provincial workshops
will also be assisted by two experts, one of whom will assist in the opera-
tion of 5-6 district workshops supervised by each province. The two training
experts will develop specific courses of instruction, prepare curricula and
help impart on-the-job training and classroom instruction to mechanics.
4.13      The project will also provide one expert for MLGH to assist with
the preparation and implementation of the Pilot Road Maintenance Program
(para. 4.09).
4.14      Technical assistance to be provided in the project (Table 13) is
crucial to the project's progress and success.  Government agreed that it
will employ by September 30, 1978, suitably qualified experts, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group and in accordance with the
project time schedule. Terms of Reference for the experts are given in
Annex III. In view of the current housing shortage, Government undertook
to take all reasonable action required to make available adequate living
accommodations to experts financed under the proiect.  Finally, an agreement
with Government was reached that it will prepare by September 30, 1978 a
program satisfactory to the Bank Group for the career development of local
staff in RD, and carry out such program thereafter.
C. Cost Estimates
4.15      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$26.7 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$22.5
milllion or 84% of the total cost. No taxes and duties are involved in the
project. A breakdown of costs (in November 1977 prices) is shown below.



- 18 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
-----(K million)---    ---(US$ million)----            %
Item
a) Road Maintenance Equipment
i) Procurement of new equip-
ment including spare parts   0.61    7.71    8.32    0.76    9.64   10.40            93
ii) Rehabilitation of existing
existing equipment             0.12    0.37    0.49    0.15    0.46    0.61          75
iii) Spare parts for existing
equipment                      0.08    0.62    0.70    0.10    0.77    0.87          88
b) Workshop Equipment and
Tools, and Training Aids
i) Workshop equipment and
tools                          0.08    0.90    0.98    0.10    1.12    1.22          92
ii) Training aids                  0.01    0.06    0.07    0.01    0.08    0.09          89
c) Consultant Services
i) Assistance in reorganiz-
ing MSB                        0.03    0.11    0.14    0.04    0.14    0.18          80
ii) Preparation of bid documents
for road maintenance and
workshop equipment             0.01    0.03    0.04    0.01    0.04    0.05          80
iii) Feasibility study and,
if justified, detailed
engineering of road(s)         0.13    0.51    0.64    0.16    0.64    0.80          80
d) Pilot Rural Road Maintenance
Program                          0.40    0.40    0.80    0.50    0.50    1.00          50
e) Technical Assistance             0.83    3.33    4.16    1.04    4.16    5.20          80
Subtotal                     2.30   14.04   16.34    2.87   17.55   20.42         86
f) Contingencies /a
i) Physical 10%                   0.23    1.40    1.63    0.29    1.75    2.04
ii) Price: (17% foreign,
33% local)           0.83    2.56    3.39    1.04    3.20    4.24
Total Project Cost:          3.36   18.00   21.36    4.20   22.50   26.70         84
/a   Physical contingencies, to cover unforeseen quantity increases, are equivalent to 10%
of items a-e. Price contingencies to provide for anticipated cost increases over
the implementation period are equivalent to an overall 19% (17% foreign, 33% local) of
the cost of items a-e, including physical contingencies, and were derived as follows:
1977     1978       1979    1980      1981
Foreign Costs:
Items a-b             7.5%      7.5%      7.5%       -        -
Items c-e             8%        8%        8%         8%       8%
Local Costs:
Items a-e             15%       15%       15%        8%       8%



- 19 -
4.16      Project costs have been arrived at as follows:
(a)  Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment, Tools, Training Aids
and Spare Parts: based on MSB estimates and recent quota-
tionc by Zambian suppliers which reflect c.i.f. Lusaka prices
in November 1977, and have been found reasonable;
(b)  Consultant Services:  based on man-months required and on costs
of such services in Zambia and other similar countries, and are
found reasonable;
(i) Assistance in Reorganizing MSB: includes 20 man-months,
a net average of US$6,000 per man-month;
(ii)  Preparation of Bid Documents for Road Maintenance and
Workshop Equipment, Tender Procedures and Bid Evaluation:
includes 6 man-months, a net average of US$6,000
per man-month;
(iii)  Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering of Mansa-
Kawambwa-Nchelenge Road or the road(s) to be agreed
between Government and the Bank Group: includes 105
man-months over a 1-3/4 year period, a net average
of US$6,000 per man-month, plus needed vehicles and
equipment;
(c)  Technical Assistance:  based on costs of such services in Zambia
and other similar countries, and are found reasonable. Costs cover
1,032 man-months (Table 13) over a 3-year period, a net average of
US$5,000 per man-month; and
(d)  Rural Road Maintenance Program:  a notional amount has been in-
cluded for setting up a few small workshops/offices, key staff
housing, road camps, and basic equipment and tools to meet the
needs of two Rural Councils.
D. Financing
4.17      The total project cost is estimated at US$26.7 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$22.5 million. The project will be financed
by an IDA credit and a Bank loan totalling US$22.5 million (US$11.25 million
each) which will cover 100% of the foreign exchange component of the proj-
ect's cost. The Government will contribute US$4.2 million which will cover
the remaining costs of the project. The Government will also finance recur-
rent expenditures needed to carry out the project, estimated at about US$65
million equivalent over the project period (see Table 6, notes 5 and 6).



- 20 -
E. Execution and Procurement
4.18      RD under MPW, MSB under the Defense Division of the President's
office and MLGH, assisted by technical experts to be provided, will be res-
ponsible for project execution. The Government agreed that suitably quali-
fied consultants will be engaged on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group, to assist Government in reorganizing MSB, to prepare bid docu-
ments, tender procedures and bid evaluation for road maintenance and workshop
equipment, the feasibility study, and detailed engineering. Detailed engineer-
ing will be undertaken if the proposed road(s) included for study is considered
economically justified by both the Government and the Bank Group. The project
is scheduled to begin in mid-1978 and end in mid-1982. The project implemen-
tation schedule, the details of which were confirmed with Government, is shown
in Chart IV. Also agreed were arrangements for quarterly reporting on progress
of project implementation and the requirement of preparing an evaluation
report promptly after project completion.
4.19      The new road maintenance and workshop equipment, including a supply
of spare parts, estimated to cost about US$11.6 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies, will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines with separate contracts for
each type or group of similar types of equipment. The contracts will provide
for delivery of 75% of the equipment in 1979 and that remaining in 1980. Sup-
pliers of equipment not already represented in the country will be required
to provide training of mechanics and plant operators. The suppliers will also
be required to provide an adequate organization and maintain a reasonable
inventory of spare parts in Zambia. The spare parts required for rehabilita-
ting equipment and those required for keeping existing equipment in working
order, and training aids, estimated to cost about US$1.5 million equivalent,
excluding contingencies, would involve a wide range of items of various makes
and are unlikely to attract international competition. These will be procured,
after calling competitive quotations from established suppliers within the
country and abroad, in accordance with Government procurement procedures which
are satisfactory. Similarly, equipment, materials and other items required
for the pilot rural road maintenance program are unlikely to attract inter-
national competition and will be procured according to normal Government pro-
cedures. The Government agreed that orders for road maintenance and workshop
equipment, spare parts, tools and training aids will be placed only after
requisite technical experts for RD and MSB are employed.
F. Disbursements
4.20      Bank Group funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for road maintenance
and workshop equipment, tools, training aids and spare
parts imported directly from abroad;



- 21 -
(ii) 70% of expenditures on road maintenance and workshop
equipment, tools, training aids and spare parts imported
and procured locally;
(iii) 50% of expenditures for Pilot Rural Road Maintenance
Program;
(iv) 80% of expenditures for consultant services and tech-
nical assistance; and
(v) retroactive financing of US$180,000 will be required to
meet consultants' fees for assistance in reorganizing
MSB and preparing bidding documents and evaluating bids
(para. 4.08).
A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Table 14.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Introduction
5.01      The road network in Zambia is rapidly deteriorating because of
inadequate maintenance. This means that investment already made on the
roads is being lost, particularly on bitumen roads which, if not properly
maintained, will need costly remedial work in a few years. Many of the
bitumen roads serve important mining and industrial areas, and have traffic
levels in excess of 400 vpd. Traffic on these roads is projected to increase
at 7% p.a. during the next ten years. The international routes to the north
and east have played a particularly vital role since the closure of the
Rhodesian border in 1973, as substantial volumes of imports and exports have
had to be transported by road, resulting in higher traffic levels and a higher
percentage of heavy traffic. Many gravel roads are deteriorating into earth
roads because they are not being regravelled as required. This could even-
tually impede economic growth since about 65% of the population live in rural
areas and depend on such roads to market their produce, purchase agricultural
inputs, and reach health, education and other government facilities.
Selection of Roads for the Project
5.02      Owing to the limited availability of local funds for road mainte-
nance, it is not possible to improve maintenance simultaneously over the whole
road network. Therefore, RD and the Bank Group have tentatively identified
priority roads to receive maintenance under the project, which will form part
of Phase I of a maintenance program (para 4.03). Maintenance priorities have
been identified as (i) routine maintenance of the whole road network, (ii) re-
sealing of about 2,000 km of bitumen roads, and (iii) regravelling of 750 km
of heavily trafficked gravel roads (Table 7). The 2,000 km of bitumen roads



- 22 -
selected have not been resealed for some seven or more years, and if reseal-
ing does not take place shortly, many of the roads will need major restora-
tion, involving far greater costs than those incurred for regular routine and
periodic maintenance. These roads are some of the most heavily trafficked in
Zambia with an average level of 380 vpd, rising to as high as 3,260 vpd. The
750 km of gravel roads selected are in poor condition and are economically
important since they provide access to mining and agricultural areas; their
traffic levels, averaging 200 vpd to as high as 400 vpd on certain roads, are
some of the highest in the country for gravel roads. Many of the roads are
due for upgrading, but none of them appear to have been included in proposals
for the TNPD (para. 3.22) since Government is concentrating on its policy of
connecting provincial capitals with paved roads. Where RD was unable to
provide data, information on road conditions and traffic levels was obtained
from PREs, and substantiated whenever possible by Bank Group staff. Under
technical assistance included in the proposed project, one of the duties of
the transport economist and road maintenance engineers (para. 4.11) will be
to review the roads included in the project, to establish priorities for
execution, and to draw-up economic criteria for levels of both routine and
periodic maintenance.
Benefits
5.03      Benefits from routine and periodic maintenance of the 2,000 km of
bitumen roads, and 750 km of gravel roads have been calculated. These bene-
fits include cost savings arising from resealing the bitumen roads which,
if not resealed during the project period, will need costlier treatment, such
as bituminous overlays, much earlier than if resealing takes place. Benefits
have also been calculated for the remaining 2,890 km of bitumen roads, 6,530
km of gravel roads and 6,850 km of earth roads which will receive routine,
but not periodic, maintenance. The main benefits estimated will accrue to
(i) road users as savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from improved
routine and periodic maintenance, and (ii) Government in the form of cost
savings on bitumen roads.
5.04      No detailed study has been carried out in Zambia during the last few
years on vehicle operating costs for different surface types of road. The
Bank has therefore made estimates based on data collected from Zambia, and
comparable data from other countries. Unit user costs without the project,
increasing over time because of further deterioration of the selected roads,
were compared with unit user costs after improved maintenance, which should
remain at approximately the same level during the life of the project (Annex
IV), Thus unit benefits gradually increase over the life of the project,
Economic Rate of Return
5.05      After comparing project costs and benefits, net of taxes and
duties, with the continuation of presently inadequate maintenance efforts,
the rate of return on the entire project is 44%. The rate of return for both
the roads included in the periodic maintenance program and the remaining roads
which will receive only routine maintenance is also 44%. These estimates



- 23 -
are based on the shadow rate of exchange of K1.0 = US1.0. Using the current
rate of exchange, KO.80 = US$1.0 the rates of return are 41% for the periodic
maintenance program and 43% for the routine maintenance program. The dif-
ference of 25% between the actual and shadow exchange rate reflects the
influence of existing tariffs, quotas and export subsidies; however, the
difference has little effect on the project's rate of return as both costs
and benefits have similar foreign cost components. The first year benefit for
both the routine and periodic maintenance programs is 26%, discounted at a
rate of 12%.
5.06      The benefit cost ratio discounted at 12% for the entire project is
1.98:1; for the periodic maintenance program, it is 1.65:1 and for routine
maintenance 2.29:1.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.07      While the project as defined is economically sound, there are two
risks which could affect its progress. One possible risk is that there will
be a delay in filling essential posts in RD and MSB, which will mean a con-
sequant delay in ordering equipment and implementing the maintenance programs.
Nevertheless, by delaying implementation of road maintenance, the economy will
suffer because of further deterioration of the road network and consequent
increase in vehicle operating costs, earlier failure of bitumen roads involv-
ing costly remedial work, and more gravel roads reverting to earth road
status. Another risk is that, even if technical assistance is in place, MSB's
performance may improve more slowly than expected. This could mean delays in
repairing RD's vehicles and equipment, forcing curtailment of the routine and
periodic maintenance programs. However, the rate of return would still be 12%
for both programs even if only 45% of the periodic maintenance program and 40%
of the routine maintenance is carried out during the project period; however,
this is not regarded as likely. Therefore, the project is still economically
sound.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement with Government was reached that:
(i)  all such actions as shall be necessary will be taken to
ensure enforcement of the legal dimensions, axle loads
and weight limits of vehicles (para. 3.08);
(ii)  vacant posts of the three Senior Executive Engineers and
one Chief Materials Officer in RD will be filled by
September 30, 1978, by employing additional staff with
appropriate qualifications and experience (para. 3.10);
(iii)  to promote Zambianization a program, satisfactory to the
Bank Group, for the career development of local staff in
RD will be prepared by September 30, 1978, and such program
carried out thereafter (paras. 3.11 and 4.14);



- 24 -
(iv)  a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank Group, will be
drawn up by December 31, 1978 to reorganize MSB, such plan
to include specific recommendations for improving organiza-
tional and operational procedures and meeting staff require-
ments of MSB. Implementation of the plan will be completed
within another nine months. Further, MSB will be maintained
exclusively for services related to non-military vehicles,
equipment and plant (para. 3.15);
(v) training programs for RD and MSB will be satisfactory to
the Bank Group (paras. 3.16, 3.18);
(vi)  RC's road maintenance staff will be trained in the RD
training school (para. 3.17);
(vii) funds required for the maintenance of roads administered
by RD:, estimated at current prices to aggregate the equiva-
lent of US$71 million, and those for maintenance and re-
pairs of equipment and MSB workshops, estimated to aggre-
gate the equivalent of US$12.2 million for the years 1979
through 1982, will be provided by Government; in addition
the Government and the Bank Group will annually discuss the
appropriateness of maintenance funds allocated to RD and
MSB (para. 3.19);
(viii)  technical assistance for RD, MSB and MLGH will be employed
by September 30, 1978, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank Group (para. 4.14);
(ix)  all reasonable action required will be taken to make
available adequate living accomodations to experts
financed under the project (para. 4.14);
(x) the progress of project implementation will be re-
ported to the Bank Group on a quarterly basis and an
evaluation report will be prepared promptly after
project comppletion (para, 4.18);
(xi)  suitably qualified consultants for assistance in re-
organization MSB, preparing bid documents for road
maintenance and workshop equipment, the feasibility
study and detailed engineering will be engaged on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
Detailed engineering will be undertaken if the pro-
posed road(s) included for study is considered eco-
nomically justified by both the Government and the
Bank Group (para. 4.18); and
(xii)  orders for road maintenance and workshop equipment,
spare parts, tools and training aids will be placed
only after requisite technical experts for RD and MSB
are employed (para. 4.19)e



- 25 -
6.02      Also confirmed with Government was the project implementation
schedule shown in Chart IV (para. 4.18).
6.03      The employment of consultants for drawing up a plan of action to
improve the efficiency of MSB is a condition of loan/credit effect 9eness
(para. 3.15).
6.04      With the agreements and under the conditions indicated above, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit and a Bank loan totalling US$22.5 mil-
lion (US$11.25 million each) to the Government of Zambia. The IDA credit
would be on standard terms and the Bank loan would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
April 17, 1978






ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zambia's Imports and Exports by Routes (1970-76)
('000 tons)
Lobito     Dar es Salaam       Mombasa      Malawi  1   Mozambique  Rhodesia
(Rail)     Road    Rail          Road       Road/Rail   Road/Rail       Rail      Air  Other   Total
Imports       118       248                                 18                      1,293             4      1,681
1970
Export        187       253                                   6                        398            4        848
Imports       269       295                                 29                      1,048             7      1,648
1971
Exports       176       221                                   9                        390            2        798
Imports      144        202                                 39                         864            8      1,257
1972
Exports       170       210                                   7                        467                     854
Imports       418       200                   68           109                          35      25    4        859
1973
Export        389       284                   45            41                           5           49        813
Imports      438        271                   86           125                                  29   33        982
1974
Exports       509       319                   86            10                                                 924
Imports       257       311       69          22           129          30                      20   41        879
1975
Exports       309       349       46           2            66          10                                     782
Imports         4       248      326          22            71          58                       9   21        759
1976
Exports       131       323      349          12            48          35                                     898
1/ By road through Zambia to ahd from the Malawi and Mozambique railways.
Source:  MPTC and CPO, June 1977
April 1978



TABLE 2
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
'.oad Network Maintained by Roads Department
(Km)
A. By Administrative Classification
International    Main    District    Total
Main (T)          (M)       (D)
Class I Bitumen             2,677         1,384       500       4,561
Class II Gravel                88        1,760        925       2,773
Class III Gravel              127           447     4,263       4,837
TJnclassified Earth           175            18     6,655       6,848
Total   3,067         3,609    12,343      19,019
B. By Surface Type
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976
Class I Bitumen            3,976     4,099      4,456     4,561      4,561
Class II Gravel )
)        7,434     7,391      7,513     7,610      7,610
Class III Gravel )
Unclassified Earth         7,149     7,281      6,992     6,848      6,848
Total    18..559    18,771    18,961    19,019    19 019
Source: Roads Department, June 1977
April 1978



ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
New Registration of Motor Vehicles (1970-75)
Commercial Vehicles                                            Vehicles 1/
Passenger            Vans and              Construction   Motor Cycles/   Total new   Used
Year       Cars      Buses   Vanettes    Trucks   Vehicles           Scooters       Vehicles    Elsewhere    Total
1970       5,984       54       3,743      1,470         622           1,657          13,530       1,851       15,381
1971       6,165      152       5,042      2,349        854            1,618          16,180       1,389       17,569
1972       5,539      274       4,321      1,747        836            1,824          14,541         507       15,048
1973       5,221      304       3,505      1,654         707           1,313          12,704         653       13,357
1974       6,667      279       4,870      2,165      1,100            1,332          16,413         596       17,009
1975       5,577      331       3,786      1,175        669            1,192          12,730         435       13,165
1/ Re-registration of vehicles previously registered outside Zambia and brought into the country.
Vehicle Fleet
Passenger            Vans and              Construction                 Motor Cycles/
Year       Cars      Buses   Vanettes    Trucks       Vehicles       Tractors      Scooters        Total      Trailers
1970      63,317      668      17,589    11,626         645            4,053           6,835    104,734         4,807
1971      67,173      690      19,672    12,696         713            4,804           7,589    113,337         5,498
1972      78,852      769      22,402    13,850       1,019            5,381           8,889    131,16?         5,866
1973      85,315     780       25,214    14,511       1,129            5,986           9,114    142,049         6,075
1974      89,770     814       27,257    15,865       1,279            6,304           9,722    151,011         6,519
1975 1/   94,259     855       29,438    17,293       1,484            6,777          10,208    160,314         6,845
1/  Estimated
Source:  Central Statistical Office, June 1977
April 1978



TABLE 4
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Department Training School Courses
1971-1976
Staff Category/Course Title             Total Number of Students              Total
1971-1972   1973-1974   1975-1976
Drivers
Vehicle Driving                                  9           33           71          113
Plant Operators
Basic Course                                    44           11          43            98
Grader Operation                                18           43           33           94
Front-End Loader Operation                      20           13          29            62
Tractor Operation                               28          21           22            71
Plant Operator Refresher Course                 46           61           33          140
Maintenance of Plant and Vehicles                            19           37           56
Subtotal        156         168          197           521
Road Gangers/Foremen
Road Gangers Basic                              40          -            -             40
Road Gangers Part I                             16           32          23            71
Road Gangers Part II                            13           30          30            73
Road Gangers Advanced                            -           27          13            40
Work Supervision                                 7            9          48            64
Repair and Maintenance of Roads                  -           28          37            65
Road Administration                              -           -           48            48
Plant and Vehicle Maintenance                    -            8          37            45
Concreting                                       -           -           29            29
Simple Survey                                    -           -            8             8
Subtotal         76         134          273           483
Road Superintendents
Bailey Bridge Construction                       -          13           18            31
Supervisory Course                               7           9           16            32
Simple Road Construction                        -            -           10            10
Plant and Vehicle Inspection                    10           6            -            16
Subtotal        17           28           44            89
Total       258          363          585         1,206
Source: Roads Department Training School, June 1977
April 1978



TABLE 5
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Department Highway Expenditures
(K million)
Year                 New Construction    Road Maintenance        Total
1972                       12.33                5.38             17.71
1973                        4.33                5.45              9.78
1974                        5.22                5.75             10.97
1975                       14.67                6.29             20.96
1976                       18.77                5.36             24.13
1977 (Authorized)          23.31                6.56             29.87
Source: Roads Department, June 1977
April 1978






3>0/304 AAL  6
TH110IH I GT[WA 2/R022E2T
K '903
03/H  _____  1979                            09                                   '30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19,                              T.2 't at
'9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -R   -ii-1Z,i 'o 1                                                                 I                    .11          wy          Trr       T                 -"                                           F.-12    1112
P.,s                                                      6 1.2    3, 78,53      '4/1          /3 5'7   1928.3   2',02.2                                                                                       ]            .         8,329,9
erg 1.9 lipoelIt                          -1 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'73.-  3/1 3  39.7        31.,I9     32 3.        -                                                                         127.6       377.5         493.1
./u/p/t-t-er      -        -         -           1~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~ ~~0.3  ~  -.93,4  325.2  72,3  125.0  175.                  -           --                      --6.0                               121.0         712H.30
+/_le                            -         -                               .1          731,-           08. i     2252        2424.                                                          -           -             75.2       902.2        973.2
99/, '/93               ~~~~~~~~~29,'  I1"12.094.0        -                                                                                                                                      -             9. 99      llo.6        t49.l
q01ip9-5                        19.01    in5.9     40.0          --                                                                        ---                                                                        10.9        39.0          40.0
frusibllits 99/dy, -`060
justifIed,' detIld
0t/90-c- otla-naa-0
/ 261 I90)                       173.      66.7     84,0         72,7       263.3      5162.6          316. 0     134.0       194.9                                                                                   i217.0      510          640
9t.990-1  load'obt,dr
'99  90+                    ~    ~ ~      ~ ~       ~    ~~~~~~-  -  -  '09,  26m '0.            '02          9.         400.0        -                        --                                                08.0       409.0        890.9
ctt- hoD  oosisoaaco          -         -          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.9.    i1123.2.    /,?.2 /j,    12".      1,404.3        272.2   /901.,2        1,221.4                                            8  32.0    3,328.0     4,199.0
r9t9  a-~~~~ /197)       9.9~~i  / 0.9     261,        8'?  /       661 .2,/ 9                / .'       39H.         air3.        27.9       199.1         133,1                               -229.8    9,494.6                  1,634.4
Tra  -c   I/                      7.      140      7.           132.7      '22.03   1387,0            22~c 3       5 322      275.1          '6        39.           7a--                                            369.3    1,369.1       1,877.4
7_                  _ 1__       _2_6         3~                        _b.          __7__                                                                      - 13e 38  2  529,       978.H      1,309 7
j              ,S.  ~44.4        3i 3 0     i ___   iL__4__-                                     _b__                                                                      -                       ,.I,59.  2,i.  17.998.5   _21,365.2
r09. 362/9R2N 2290l1T21R1
1,ao   stf                                                   ,001.0         -       0,04,         0,395.9g        -        4,096.9    4t, .06.,9                 4,0446.9    3,221.9                2,721.6    11,576,7          -        15,376.7
90000, 0780-ets ast-/-                                                    11'66.7    2,172.2         / 112,5    3 4,2,0       ,2.          12.       3,492.0    6,269.3    - .346.7  2,902.9    3,/9              ' I 05,7. 2   11,168.3,   21,733.7
.,., a/i/-Ill)   193  -     -      -            310,'~~~~~~~~~~~~5I  6/    6,33.       /"I         343,2    1,036.6         721.4      3 .'         ,0.o         60L .2     a,,,9        99        2,360.2    1.1.          o,H.
.9  001   91,1  1'  -    --   .22' 6        /1,3   'A2LO~~~~~~~    2/222,2        911.3    4,000 9      )0j,209    1,a./1,/ 3~~~~4 _  3       33/9.    foOl.'   3,134.7 29-l5,1707 .3 _        ,71' 3 .2112 ,4400o
ry  prs89.                                                               20         0'            "6.0I        600.0   1,509.0          ac.      1,222.0      2,20020        036.    3,                                                   ,5 ) 9 //
9c                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,   .       9200.2      6.360,0~~~~~~~20
IIo  -        -o,l/I/0I3-                                     0,           a1 2,b                     9'.0       600        150. '        9.0        I '      1     0 a2        fi'2 2,    12n/      /10 2        33I,0       /2o ,'        6323
taot I                                                                    .' ,! )6                            LI7' LO   "   _IP) 1   1/3 20711,              aO2.0    6,'             -                                                 2.0.      "~~ 0 /6_.1)   a!I
a   a  T--7aFre    80/ , lao-1 12; 1980-02 '1                                                                  /',)It. /09   /ta.19t              i-    _      t--
90 1/It-,,             92.0-I15     190309L, lo -; 2.4- to  doa   aE'   9'    ,c                                                                                                      .9c     O    -.911 /'   /Oa/c69jcae
-9/i 197832






TABLE 7
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Included in the Project for Periodic Maintenance
The kilometerage indicated is a tentative estimate of the road lengths
that require resealing/regravelling during project implementation.
A.  Bitumen roads to be resealed
Route                                Length Included in the Pro2ject
(km)
Livingstone - Kafue - Kafue Dam                               230
Rhodesian border - Tunduma (Tanzanian border)                 575
Kapiri Mposhi - Zaire border                                  175
Lusaka - Mchinji                                              220
Chingola - Solwezi                                            90
Mbala - Mpulungu                                               40
Ndola - Mufulira - Kalu)ushi                                   60
Masaiti - Luanshya                                             20
Kitwe - Kalulushi                                              10
Lusaka - Mongu                                               250   1/
Livingstone - Sesheke                                          80   1/
Bitumen length of M 18, from Kalulushi                         20
Bitumen length of D55, from Chinsali                           15
Batoka - Mamba Mine                                            90
Miscellaenous short district roads                            125
Total                               2,000
1/ Constructed early 1970s, but some sections will need resealing during
implementation period of project.
B.  Gravel roads to be regravelled
Length Included in the Project
Route                                           (km)
Mutanda Turnoff - Kalengwa Mine Turnoff                       105
Choma - Namwala                                                95
Kalulushi - Mutanda Turnoff                                   145
Landless Corner - Mumbwa                                      110
Mansa - Samfya                                                 80
Malalika - Kabulonga                                           30
Choma - Musutu Mission                                         56
Monze - junction Choma - Namwala road                          74
Nampunde Mine - Blue Lagoon Ranch                              55
Total                                   750
Source: RD and mission estimates , June 1977
April 1978



ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment Needs of Roads Department
(Units)
Routine Maintenance Units   Heavy                                   Total      Available
Zone  District Province       Maintenance Regravelling Resealing Require-  in Working  Economically Balance
Type of Equipment                        x122    x29         x9         Unit x9       Unit x4      Unit x5   ment        Condition   Repairable   Required
Bitumen heater-sprayer (1000 gal)          -       -         -              -             -           1           5           -             -           5
Bitumen heater-sprayer (250 gal)           -       -         -              1             -           -           9           -             -           9
Bitumen preheater-storage (1500 gal)    -          -                        -             -           1           5           -             -           5
Bulldozer (D4)                             -       -         -              1             -           -           9           8             1           -
Bulldozer (D6/D7)                         -        -         -              -             1           -           4          11             -           -
Chip spreader, towed                       -       -         -              -             -           1           5           -             -           5
Concrete mixer                             -       1         -              -             -           -          29          33             -           -
Caravan trailer                            -       -         1              -             -           -           9           6             -           3
Front-end loader, wheeled (1.5 cyd)        -       1         -              1             1           1          47          17            14          16
Flat truck (7-9 ton)                       I       _         2              1             1           1         158          40            20          98
Fuel tanker (12-1500 gallon)               -       -         1              -             -           -           9           -             -           9
Low loader (30 ton)                        -       -         1              -             -           -           9           1             -           8
Motor grader (125 hp)                      1                1              2             3           -         161         180 1/          -           -
Mini batch heating and mixing
plant (5-7t/hr)                         -        -         -              -             -           1           5           -             -           5
Mobile workshop                            -       -         1              -             -           -           9           -             -           9
Pneumatic tired roller (8-10 ton)         -        I         -              1             1           1          47          15             4          28
Plate Compactor                           -        1         -              2             2           -          55          46             -           9
Pick-up truck/vannette                    -        1         2              1             1           1          65          54            20           -
Steel wheeled vibratory roller
(8-10 ton)                             -        -        -               I             -           -           9           5             -           4
Tractor (120 hp)                          -        -         -              2             1           1          27          46             -           -
Trailer (4 ton)                            -       -         -              2             1           1          27          16             -          11
Tipper truck (7-9 ton)                     -       2         2              5             7           2         159          46             -         113
Water tanker (12-1500 zallon)              -       1         1              2             2           -          64           8             2          54
Water pump                                 -       1         1              2             2           -          64          81             -           -
1/ Includes 87 new graders purchased from Canadian commodity credit.
Source: Roads Department, Mechanical Services Branch and mission estimates, June 1977.
April 1978



TABLE 9
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
Unit Cost             Total Cost
Type of Equipment             Units      Local    Foreign      Local    Foreign
-   ________----K  '000.---_________
Bitumen heater-sprayer           5         2.5        25.0       12.5       125.0
(1000 gallon )
Bitumen heater-sprayer           9         0.8         6.5        7.2        58.5
(250 gallon )
Bitumen preheater-storage
(1500 -allon )             5         0.8         6.2        4.0        31.0
Chip spreau&r, towed             5         0.4         4.2        2.0       21.0
Caravan trailer                  3         0.7         6.5        2.1       19.5
Front-end loader, wheeled
(1.5 cyd)                 16         5.1        40.7       81.6       651.2
Flat truck (7-9 ton) 2x2        76         0.9        16.1       68.4    1,223.6
Flat truck (7-9 ton) 2x4        22         0.9        18.5       19.8      407.0
Fuel tanker(12-1500 gallon )   9           0.9        16.5        8.1      148.5
Low loader (30 ton)              8         4.6        46.6       36.8      372.8
Mini batch heating and
mixing plant (5-7 ton/hour)  5           1.8        16.0        9.0       80.0
Mobile workshop                  9         4.0        40.0       36.0      360.0
Pneumatic tired roller
(8-10 ton)                28         2.6        27.3       72.8       764.4
Plate Compactor                  9         0.1         0.8        0.9        7.2
Steel wheeled vibratory
roller (8-10 ton)              4         3.4       35.2       13.6       140.8
Trailer (4 ton)                 11         2.6           -      28.6         -
Tipper truck (7-9 ton)         113         0.9        15.0     101.7    1,695.0
Water tanker (12-1500           54         1.0        16.8      54.0       907.2
gallon )
559.1    7,012.7
Spare parts (10%)       55.9       701.3
Total          615.0    7,714.0
Source: Mechanical Services Branch and mission estimates, June 1977.
April 1978



TABLE 10
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY 'PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment to be Rehabilitated
Unit Cost              Total Cost
Type of Equipment          Manufacturer        Units    Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign
___________---- K '000-----------
Bulldozer                  Caterpillar, D4        1        3.5     10.5         3.5       10.5
Front-end loader           Caterpillar           13        4.7     13.2        61.1      171.6
Volvo                  1       4.7      13.2         4.7      13.2
Flat truck                 Austin/Leyland        15        1.2      4.8        18.0       72.0
Flat truck                 Fuso                   5        1.5      5.6         7.5       28.0
Pneumatic tired roller    Aveling Barford         4        3.2       8.6       12.8       34.4
Pick-up truck              Landrover             10        0.7      1.8         7.0       18.0
Vannette                   Bedford                 7       0.5      1.3         3.5        9.1
Vannette                   Peugeot                3        0.5      1.5         1.5        4.5
Water tanker               Austin                 2        1.5       5.6        3.0       11.2
Total              122.6     372.5
Source: Mechanical Services Branch and Mission estimates, June 1977.
April 1978



TABLE 11
ZAMBIA                         Page 1 of 2
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Workshop Equipment and Tools to be Purchased
Total         Foreign
__----K  '000----
A. Servicing and Test Equipment                        280.8          260.4
20 Trailer mounted servicing units
20 high pressure cold water wash units
10 automatic air cooled two state compressors
20 automatic air cooled two state compressors,
trolley mounted
20 pneuflators(electric) portable tire
inflation units, trolley mounted
20 pneuflators, portable tire inflation units,
engine driven
20 tire inflators with built-in air reservoir
20 battery chargers and engine starters (elec.)
30 auto boost battery chargers (electric)
20 nozzle poptesters with adaptors
10 hand operated nozzle test masters
20 diesel pump attendant tool kits
20 compression testers, 700 psi
40 compression testers, 200 psi
10 vernier calipers
5 universal dial test indicators
10 cylinder gauges, up to 6-1/2"
5 crank shaft gauges, up to 20"
10 depth gauges
10 micrometers
20 vacuum gauges
10 power flash timing lights
10 pole shoe screw-drivers
10 dual scale voltmeters
10 ammeter dynamo testers
10 armature testing growlers
10 hydroload battery testers
B.  Machine shop Equipment                             502.5          461.3
30 pedestal grinders
30 bench grinders
20 valve refacers
10 cylinder block boring & polishing
machine, up to 6.6" bore
20 all purpose 4 speed hand drills
10 precision lathe machines, center height
230 mm, bed length 2000 mm
10 heavy duty precision lathe machines
with automatic lubrication arrangement
3 universal horizontal milling machines



TABLE 11
Machine Shop Equipment (cont'd)                                      Page 2 of 2
10 hydraulic presses, 50 ton capacity
10 radial drilling machines, medium
10 vertical drilling machines, medium
10 heavy duty precision shapers
10 high speed automatic cycle thread
cutting lathe
10 power hacksaw machines
10 pipe thread cutting machines
C.  Welding Equipment                                   49.1           45.8
10 arc welding machines, trolley mounted
Csingle phase)
10 arc welding machines, trolley mounted
(three phase)
10 arc welding machines portable, engine
driven, trolley mounted
D.  Tools                                              142.8          132.5
50 trolley jacks - long reach (5 ton)
20 trolley jacks - long reach (20 ton)
20 hydraulic hand jacks, bottle type
(50 ton capacity)
40 hydraulic hand jacks, bottle type
(20 ton capacity)
80 hydraoAic hand jacks, bottle type,
(10 ton capacity)
20 chain blocks (10 ton capacity)
10 chain blocks (20 ton capacity)
10 multi purpose gantry hoists (8 ton capacity)
10 multi purpose gantry hoists (3 ton capacity)
40 hydraulic sprockets & gear pullers 9 1/2"
20 hydraulic 3 arm gear pullers, 8 1/2" reach
10 hydraulic 3 arm gear pullers, 6" reach
10 gear puller combination sets
10 sprocket removers set up to 6"
10 wheel hub pullers
10 brake adjusting tool kits
100 mechanics' tool kits
25 electricians' tool kits
20 socket sets
20 plant mechanics' tool kits
20 panel beating auxiliary body sets
Total                    975.2          900.0
Source: Mechanical Services Branch and mission estimates, June 1977.
ADril 1978



TABLE 12
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Aids to be Purchased
Unit Cost              Total Cost
Type                 Units      Local   Foreign        Local    Foreign
K    000----------------
Audiovisual aids     10 sets    0.1        0.8          1.0        8.0
Film projector       10         0.4        4.0          4.0       40.0
Slide projector      10         0.1        0.3          1.0        3.0
Epidiascope           3         0.3        2.5          0.9        7.5
6.9       58.5
Source: Mechanical Services Branch and Mission estimates, June 1977
April 1978



TABLE 13
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to be Provided
A.  Roads Department                                  No.           Man-months
Road Maintenance Engineers                         3               108
Transport Economist                                1                36
Instructors                                        2                72
6              216
B.  Mechanical Services Branch
Chief Mechanical Superintendents                  10               360
Senior Mechanical Superintendents                 10               360
Instructors                                        2                72
22               792
C. Ministry of Local Government and Housing
Rural Road Maintenance Engineer                    1                24
1                24
Total       29             1,032
Source: Roads Department, Mechanical Services Branch and mission estimates, June 1977.
April 1978



TABLE 14
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursement
and End of Quarter                       at End of Quarter
(US$ VOOO)
1978/79
December 31, 1978                                100
March 31, 1979                                   200
June 30, 1979                                    400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                             1,000
December 31, 1979                              2,000
March 31, 1980                                 6,500
June 30, 1980                                 12,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                            14,500
December 31, 1980                            16,500
March 31, 1981                                18,000
June 30, 1981                                 19,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                           20,000
December 31, 1981                             21,000
March 31, 1982                                22,000
June 30, 1982                                 22,500
Source: Mission estimates
April 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of MSB Reorganization
I. INTRODUCTION
II. OBJECTIVES
III. SCOPE OF-CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
B. Review of Present Organization
C. Action Program
IV. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
A. Data
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff
V. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES AND REPORTS



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of MSB Reorganization
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Zambia's highway network comprises about 7,000 km of primary roads,
12,000 km of secondary roads and about 16,000 km of tertiary roads. While the
primary and secondary road network is administered by the Roads Department (RD)
under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), the remainder is the responsibility
of local Rural Councils. RD's ability to maintain roads is constrained by the
very low rate, around 25-30%, of equipment availability for road maintenance.
2.  -     For its equipment needs, RD relies entirely on the Mechanical
Services Branch (MSB) which is responsible for procurement, maintenance and
repairs of all civilian Government vehicles, equipment and plant. MSB, pre-
viously under civilian administration in the former Ministry of Power, Trans-
port and Works, was brought under military control in 1974 under the Defense
Division of the President's Office. It has a central workshop at Lusaka, 9
provincial workshops and 54 district workshops. While the central and provincial
workshops handle heavy repairs for vehicles and plant, the district workshops
take care of light repairs and routine servicing. Major overhauls, however, are
done only at the central workshop. About 30% of the overall workload in MSB's
workshops relate to RD's vehicles and plant.
3.        In spite of the shift to the Defense Division, MSB has not been func-
tioning satisfactorily. Its limited workshop capacity and lack of adequate
staff and training facilities have resulted in low equipment availability
for user departments. To help rectify this situation, the Government of Zambia
intends to employ consultants to review the present MSB organization and to
draw up a plan for its reorganization. The World Bank Group will participate in
financing these services.
II. OBJECTIVES
4.        The purpose of the study is to assist the Government in drawing up
a plan of action to improve the organizational and operational efficiency
of MSB.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
5.        The Consultants shall perform all services, field investigations
and organizational studies, reviews and related work, as required to attain
the objectives in Section II hereof. They shall cooperate fully with the
Government Ministries and departments involved; the Government will provide
them with the data, services and facilities outlined in Section IV hereof.
The Consultants shall be solely responsible for the interpretation of all data
and for the conclusions and recommendations presented in their reports.
B. Review of Present Organization
6.        To assist the Government in improving organization and operational
efficiency in MSB, the Consultants shall:
(i) review the existing organization; its line of authority;
personnel structure; employment policies and training programs.
This shall include a review of the general qualifications and
experience of the present managerial as well as technical staff;
(ii) review the planning, budgeting, accountancy and management
information systems employed;
(iii) examine the present system of equipment procurement, its
management and control;
(iv) examine equipment maintenance and repair system employed;
(v) review the functional relationship at different levels between MSB
and other departments involved;
(vi) inspect existing workshops, offices, stores and other related
facilities used for repairs and storage of equipment and spare
parts; and
(vii)  determine repair workload of equipment belonging to various departments
in each of the MSB workshops.
C. Action Program
7.        On the basis of the analysis of the above findings, the consultants
shall make recommendations on:



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
(i) the establishment of an appropriate organizational framework for
various headquarter, provincial and district workshops;
(ii)  the staffing required for the proposed organization, inc)-iding
job descriptions, qualifications and educational requirements,
salary grades etc., and possible sources for the recruitment of
required additional staff in various categories;
(iii)  the setting up of a practical system of cost accounting and
budgetary control;
(iv)  the establishment of an efficient system of equipment procurement,
management, and of stocking, distribution and control of spare
parts;
(v) the measures necessary to improve equipment maintenance and repair
operations in MSB workshops;
(vi)  the measures necessary to improve coordination between user
departments and various headquarter, provincial and district
workshops;
(vii)  the setting up of an equipment replacement program based on the
need for scrapping existing units that are beyond economic repairs;
(viii)  the overall training needs of the proposed organization and the
establishment of associated facilities, including design of incentives
which would induce staff to remain in service after completion of
training; and
(ix) the overall needs of workshop equipment, offices, stores and related
facilities.
These recommendations shall be accompanied by a detailed time schedule of
implementation, including specific targets for meeting staff requirements.
8.        The consultants shall also prepare estimates of capital and recurrent
costs, broken down into local and foreign components, involved in the proposed
reorganization over the implementation period.
IV. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT
A. Data
9.        The Government shall provide the Consultants with any available
information and studies required for the services. The Government will, in



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
particular, allow access to MSB workshops, offices, stores and other related
facilities used for repairs and storage of equipment and spare parts.
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies
10.       The Government shall provide for the cooperation of Government
Ministries, departments and other agencies as required for carrying out the
work, liaise as necessary for this purpose, and shall give the Consultants
full access to all information required for the completion of the study.
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff
11.       The Consultants will make their own arrangements for all necessary
office and living accommodation, local transportation, supplies etc. in con-
nection with the services to be provided.
V. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES AND REPORTS
12.       The study is expected to require 8 months; the consultants shall
commence work within 30 calendar days of the effective date of the contract
and shall prepare and submit the following reports (all in English) to the
Government:
(i) Progress Report (3 copies at bi-monthly intervals) summarizing
progress made during the reporting period and total progress since
the start of the work and tentatively summarizing the findings
and recommendations of the Consultants and identifying any major
delays or problems encountered in the work with recommendations
for corrective action;
(ii) Inception Report (5 copies within 1 month of starting date)
summarizing initial findings of the consultants and giving
proposals for the conduct of the study;
(iii) Draft Final Report (5 copies within 6 months of starting date of
the study) summarizing all work performed and the findings and
recommendations of the Consultants. This report shall include
all material to be presented in the Final Report for comment by
the Government and the Bank Group; and
(iv) Final Report (number of copies to be decided by Government, within
30 days of receipt of the Government's comments on the draft Final
Report) incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
13.       Finally, 3 copies of each of the reports listed in para. 12 shall be
submitted to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
April 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
ZANBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEASIBILITY STUDY AND DETAILED ENGINEERING
OF MANSA - KAWAMBWA - NCHELENGE ROAD
Terms of Reference
I.  OBJECTIVES
II.  SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A. Feasibility Study
B. Detailed Engineering
III.  DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
A. Data
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies and Counterparts
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff
IV. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES AND REPORTS



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The purpose of the studies is to determine the technical and eco-
nomic feasibility of upgrading the existing road between Mansa and Nchelenge
via Kawambwa (approximately 240 km), and to undertake detailed engineering
depending on the results of the feasibility study.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
2.        The consultants shall perform all engineering work, economic
studies, field investigations and related work, as required to attain the
objectives in Section I hereof.
3.        In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Government Ministries and Departments responsible for trans-
port and development planning; the Government will provide the consultants
with the data and services outlined in Section III hereof. The consultants
shall be solely responsible, however, for the analysis and interpretation
of all data received and for the conclusions and recommendations in their
reports.
A. Feasibility Study
Selection of Alignment and Design Standards
4.        The consultants shall consider alternative design standards and
alignments including, if desirable, relocation of sections of the routes, as
a basis for the economic evaluation described in para. 9. Studies of alter-
native alignments shall commence with an evaluation of the existing roads
linking the points mentioned above, and shall include the possibility of
upgrading the present road by relocating short sections and improving drain-
age, widths, curvature and grades. The consultants shall first review any
available investigations of possible alignments and designs for the road.
The consultants may recommend improvements to a specific standard over the
entire road length or improvements to different standards over different
sections of roads.
5.        The consultants shall prepare financial and economic cost estimates
for the alternative alignments and geometric and pavement design standards
considered appropriate to the traffic forecasts. In selecting route and
standards, the consultants may base their cost estimates for road sections
on typical construction costs per km.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
6.        In considering standards of construction, the consultants shall
take into account the possibilities for staged construction of various sec-
tions suggested by the traffic forecasts.
7.        The cost estimates shall be broken down into foreign and local cost
components and all taxes and duties shall be identified separately. The
foreign cost component shall include such items as depreciation of imported
plant and equipment, imported materials and supplies, the foreign component
of wages and overheads, profits of foreign firms, locally procured goods of
foreign manufccture, and the principal foreign cost elements of locally
produced goods and materials incorporated in the works.
8.        The consultants' Feasibility Report on Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge
Road shall include plans, typical cross-sections, and preliminary engineering
designs for the proposed construction, at appropriate scales.
Economic Analyses
9.        The economic analyses of alternative alignments and design standards
for the road shall include estimates of:
(i) the types and volumes of forecast traffic for each of the
alternatives under paras. 4 and 5. These forecasts shall
form the basis for the selection of appropriate design
standards and the estimation of potential savings in
vehicle operating costs. The consultants shall analyze
all existing statistical data on traffic relevant to the
proposed alignments. If the consultants find that addi-
tional traffic counts or origin and destination data are
required for their study, they shall undertake the neces-
sary field studies with the assistance of the Government.
The forecasts shall take into account the effects of
existing and potential traffic-generating activity and
the possibilities of traffic diversion to and from compet-
ing modes;
(ii) vehicle operating costs for the types and sizes of ve-
hicles forecast under (i) above for both the existing
and proposed alignments and standards. Savings through
increased speeds shall be quantified when relevant. These
estimates, in conjunction with the forecasts of traffic
with and without the proposed construction, shall form the
basis for estimating potential vehicle operating costs and
time savings;
(iii)  road maintenance costs for both existing and proposed
alternatives, having regard to the respective traffic
forecasts under (i) above. The estimates shall be used to
assess the net savings or increases in total maintenance
costs likely to result from the proposed improvements; and



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
(iv) the net benefits of the proposed improvements assessed
under (1) to (iii) above. These shall be compared with
the costs determined by the methods described in para. 5,
taking account of opportunities for staged construction.
For each alternative, the net present value, discounted
at 12%, the internal rate of return, and the first year
benefit shall be calculated. On the basis of these
calculations, the optimum alignment, design standards,
starting date and staging schedule shall be determined.
B. Detailed Engineering
10.       Depending on the results of the feasibility study, the consultants
shall undertake detailed engineering of the road, as outlined below, subject
to prior approval of the Government.
11.       The consultant services in this regard shall include, but not be
limited to:
(i) detailed engineering design, preparation of estimate
of quantities, plans, drawings and bidding documents
for the project suitable for international competitive
bidding;
(ii) preparation of cost estimates of the proposed work with
a break-down into foreign and local currency costs; and
(iii) assistance in the prequalification of contracting firms
and in the analysis and evaluation of bids, if requested
by Government.
12.       The scope of the engineering investigations, design and related work
shall include:
(a) Detailed Engineering
Engineering work will be carried out as necessary to
complete the detailed engineering and preparation of
bidding documents and will include necessary topographic
surveys; location and adequate marking of center line,
levelling of profile and cross sections; soils and mate-
rials survey including identification and testing of soil
type, rock, etc., for estimating the types of excavation
and foundations; selection of soils for borrow; the design
of sub-base, base and wearing course thicknesses and the
location and testing of sources of gravel and rock required
for construction. The work will also include the location



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
and design of drainage and other structures including the
calculation of waterways, site and foundation investiga-
tions and structural design. Bidding Documents suitable
for international competitive bidding will be prepared,
including corditions of contract, specifications, drawings
(to an appropriate scale), bills of quantities and forms
for bid and performance bonds/bank guarantee. The design
standards u 11 be in accordance with the recommendations
contained in the feasibility report on the road as may be
amended.
(b)  Cost Estimates
Estimates for the cost of construction will be prepared
based on reliable and full engineering information and
detailed bills of quantities. The foreign exchange and
local currency costs will be computed in detail for each
item in the Bill of Quantities. The foreign exchange
compo,nent of cost shall include such items as depreciation
of imported plant and equipment, imported materials and
suppl:ies, locally procured goods of foreign manufacture,
wages of foreign personnel, foreign component of wages
and overheads, profits of foreign firms, and also the
principa" foreign cost elements of locally produced goods
and materiais icorporated in the works. The local cost
component shall identify all local costs; tax and duty
elements shall be identified separately.
(c) Prequal&ification. of Bidders
The consultants shall:
(i)  prepare all necessary documents for the prequal-
:Lflcation of contractors, including abbreviated
specifications of the work to be performed,
forms, invitaticns t.o prequalify, draft adver-
tiseementsc etc.;
(ii)  review and evaluate proposals for prequalifi-
cations and prepare a list of qualified firms
h.ich should be permitted to bid.
LII. i   A ,,L__OCA L SERIVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE
PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
A. Data
13.       The Government shall provide the consultants with:
(i)  reports of previous studies on routes to link the towns
mentioned above;



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
(ii) the Third National Development Plan;
(iii) appropriate highway traffic counts and origin and des-
tination surveys;
(iv) assistance in undertaking additional highway traffic
counts and origin and destination surveys;
(v) available cost information for all modes of transports;
(vi) cost of recent road construction and maintenance for
various types of roads;
(vii) topographical, meteorological and geological maps of
area, as available; and
(viii)  any available aerial photography.
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies and Counterparts
14.       The Government will provide for the cooperation of Government
Ministries, departments and other agencies as required for carrying out the
work, liaison as necessary for this purpose, and will give the Consultants
full access to all information required for the completion of the studies.
15.       The Government will assign suitable counterparts to work with
the key personnel of the consultants.
C. Facilities and Supporting Staff
16.       The consultants will make their own arrangements for all necessary
office and living accommodation, local transportation, supplies, etc., in
connection with the services to be provided.
IV. TIME SCHEDULE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES AND REPORTS
17.       The feasibility study is expected to require 9 months; the detailed
engineering, 12 months. The consultants shall prepare and submit the follow-
ing reports (all in English) to the Government:
(a) Progress Reports (3 copies at bi-monthly intervals)
summarizing progress made during the reporting period
and total progress since the start of the work and ten-
tatively summarizing the findings and recommendations



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of the consultants and identifying any major delays or
problems encountered in the work with recommendations
for corrective action;
(b) Feasibility Study
(i) Draft Final Report (5 copies within 7 months
of Starting Date of the Study) summarizing all
work performed and the findings and recommenda-
tions of the consultants. This report will be
presented including maps, plans and diagrams
to be included in the Final Report.
(ii) Final Report (number of copies to be decided by
the Government, within 60 days of receipt of the
Government's comments on the Draft Final Report)
incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate
by the consultants after receipt of comments on
the Draft Final Report of the study from the
Government. Such comments will be made by the
Government within two months of receipt of the
Draft Final Report.
(c) Detailed Engineering
(i) Draft Final Report (5 copies within 10 months
of Starting Date of the work) consisting of
roadway plan and profile drawings, drawings of
typical roadway sections, drainage plans,
design of drainage and other structures, spe-
cifications, bills of quantities, bidding
documents and estimates of construction costs
with an appropriate breakdown into foreign and
local costs. The report shall be accompanied
by complete pavement design calculations and
supporting material and an outline of procedures
used and calculations made for drainage and
structural design.
(ii) Final Report (number of copies to be decided by
the Government, within 60 days of receipt of the
Government's comments on the Draft Final Report)
complete with plans and documents incorporating
all revisions considered appropriate by the con-
sultants after receipt of comments from the Gov-
ernment on the Draft Final Report. Such comments
will be made by the Government within two months
of receipt of the Draft Final Report.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
18.       Finally, 3 copies of the reports listed in para. 17 (a) and 5
copies of each of the reports outlined in para. 17 (b) and (c) shall be
submitted to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
19.       The originals of all design, quantity, and other calculations
would be bound and suitably indexed and submitted to the Roads Department
of the Ministry of Public Works as parts of the Final Reports.
April 1978



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 7
ZANBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
I. OBJECTIVE
The purpose of the technical assistance is to assist with improving
road maintenance planning and operations, including equipment management and
control and highway planning, improve local skills in these fields, and assist
with project implementation.
II. SCOPE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The project will provide a technical assistance team consisting of 3
Road Maintenance Engineers, 2 Instructors and an Economist for the RD for a
period of 3 years each, a team consisting of 10 Chief Mechanical Superinten-
dents, 10 Senior Mechanical Superintendents and 2 Instructors for the MSB for
a period of 3 years each and one Rural Road Maintenance Engineer for MLGH for
a period of 2 years. The individuals will assist and advise the RD, the MSB
and the MLGH in their respective fields, in addition to carrying out counter-
part training of Zambian staff. The required qualifications and job descrip-
tions of the individuals are described below:
INDIVIDUAL JOB DESCRIPTION
A. Road Maintenance Engineers (3)
Qualifications:
The Road Maintenance Engineers should be qualified professional
civil engineers with 10-15 years of experience in highway planning, design,
construction and maintenance of bituminous-surfaced, gravel and earth roads,
including the design and use of bituminous mixes and the testing of soils and
materials; should have experience in operational and administrative aspects
of highway maintenance in a government highway/roads organization and should
be conversant with unit costing and similar management systems and controls
and have suitable experience in equipment usage and control. Fluency in
written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are
also required.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 7
Duties:
The Road Maintenance Engineers will report to the Director of the RD
and will assist and advise him on all aspects of highway maintenance, planning
and implementation, including but not limited to:
(i)  reviewing and evaluating existing inventories, records
and other data and carrying out additional surveys and
investigations for preparing detailed and updated in-
ventories for the road network;
(ii)  collecting and compiling data such as highway traffic
counts, freight moved, axle loads, etc.;
(iii)  determining suitable levels of road maintenance for
different road conditions and traffic levels;
(iv)  identifying for each road section the type and amount
of work required for adequate maintenance and translating
such works into specific tasks in terms of routine and
periodic maintenance;
(v) together with the RD's transport economist reviewing routes
included in the first phase of the periodic maintenance program,
establishing priorities and identifying roads for inclusion in
further phases of the program;
(vi)  installing a system of cost accounting procedures to
facilitate determining the cost of individual road re-
habilitation and maintenance operations and the total cost
of maintaining individual road sections, relating costs
to physical environments and traffic;
(vii)  operating a highway maintenance organization, including
equipment management and control, work scheduling and
budgeting;
(viii)  establishing performance standards and procedures for
routine and periodic maintenance involving an appropriate
mix of labor and equipment;
(ix)  directing and controlling the deployment of equipment
assigned to areas of operation;
(x)  selecting key road maintenance staff, including staff
concerned with equipment operation and maintenance, for
training at the Roads Training School; and
(xi)  training counterpart staff.
Location:
The individuals will be stationed in either Lusaka or one of the
provincial headquarters depending on the area to which assigned.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
B. Road Training School Instructors (2)
Qualifications:
The Road Training School Instructors should be technologists having
10 to 15 years experience in road construction and maintenance of bituminous-
surfaced, gravel and earth roads; should be familiar with the selection and
use of soils and materials, and of equipment used and be familiar with methods
using an appropriate mix of labor and equipment on such works; should have a
background in curriculum development and be able to train road maintenance
personnel, including plant and vehicle operators, on-the-job and in the
classroom; must be fluent in English and be able to communicate with tradesmen
and technicians.
Duties:
Will report to the officer-in-charge of the Road Training School and
will assist him in imparting on-the-job training and classroom instruction to
road maintenance staff, including plant and vehicle operators.
Location:
Will be stationed in Lusaka but will travel to field stations as
required.
C. Transport Economist
Qualifications:
The Transport Economist should be a qualified economist, preferably
with a postgraduate qualification in transport economics, with 5-10 years
experience in transport planning, including project evaluation and justifica-
tion, highway planning, road maintenance programming and traffic forecasting.
Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas
easily are also required.
Duties:
The Transport Economist will report to the head of the Planning
Unit of RD and will assist and advise him on all aspects of highway planning
and project justification. His duties will include:
(i) setting up an effective highway planning system;
(ii) identification and evaluation of specific road projects
for inclusion in RD's road construction program;



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
(iii)  developing criteria for levels of both routine and periodic
maintenance, reviewing routes included in the first phase of
the periodic maintenance program, and identifying roads for
inclusion in future phases of the program;
(iv)  analysis of traffic data and forecasting traffic volumes;
(v) making recommendations on any additional staffing that
may be necessary in order to set up an effective highway
planning system;
(vi)  reviewing the road haulage licensing system in Zambia
and making recommendations for its reform to the
Government; and
(vii)   liaising with the Ministry of Transport, Power and Com-
munications in order to ensure that highway planning is
coordinated with planning of transport modes.
Locations:
Will be stationed in Lusaka but will make field trips as required.
D. Chief Mechanical Superintendents (10)
Qualifications:
The Chief Mechanical Superintendents should be qualified profes-
sional mechanical engineers with 10-15 years experience in the operation and
management of equipment fleets, including road construction/maintenance
plant and vehicles, scaling, stocking and distribution of spares; should have
sufficient experience in workshop management in a government highway/roads
organization and be able to carry out on-the-job training of workshop staff.
Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas
easily are also required.
Duties:
Will report to the officer-in-charge at the Lusaka Central Workshop
or the Provincial Mechanical Engineer of MSB and will assist and advise him
on all matters concerning workshop management and control, including but not
limited to:
(i) reviewing and updating of existing inventories of equip-
ment and spare parts and establishing a continuous stock
verification system;
(ii)  preparing specifications and bid documents for procuring
road maintenance and workshop equipment, tools and spare
parts, evaluating bids and inspecting equipment, spare
parts and tools upon delivery;



MXNEX III
Page 5 of 7
(iii) establishing preventive maintenance parts and components
requirements (maximum-minimum stock levels);
(iv) establishing an efficient system for spare parts distri-
bution and control;
(v) setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for road
maintenance equipment and instituting standard equipment
repair and overhaul procedures; and
(vi) carrying out on-the-job training of workshops staff.
Location:
The individuals will be stationed in either Lusaka or one of the
provincial headquarters depending on the workshop to which assigned.
E. Senior Mechanical Superintendents (10)
Qualifications:
Should be technologists qualified in the mechanical field, with
10-15 years experience in the operation and management of equipment fleets,
including road construction/maintenance plant and vehicles and have the
ability to organize and direct work; must be able to train mechanics, plant
and vehicle operators and have a good knowledge of written and spoken English.
Duties:
Will report to the officer-in-charge at Lusaka Central Workshop/
Provincial Mechanical Engineer and will assist and advise him on all matters
concerning management and control of district workshops in the province,
including but not limited to:
(i) setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for road
maintenance equipment and instituting standard equipment
repair procedures;
(ii)  procuring spare parts and establishing an efficient
system for their distribution and control; and
(iii)  carrying out on-the-job training of mechanics and plant
and vehicle operators.
Location:
The individuals will be stationed in Lusaka or one of the provin-
cial headquarters depending on the area to which assigned.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 7
F. MSB School Instructors (2)
Qualifications:
Should be technologists qualified in the mechanical field, with
10-15 years experience in the operation and management of road construction/
maintenance plant and vehicles; should have background in practical train-
ing in either Government or private industry and be able to train personnel
on-the-job and in classroom; must be fluent in English and be able to com-
municate with tradesmen and technicians.
Duties:
Will report to the officer-in-charge Lusaka Central Workshop and
will develop specific courses of instruction, prepare curricula and impart
on-the-job training and classroom instruction to mechanics.
Location:
The individuals will be stationed in Lusaka but will travel to
field stations as required.
G. Rural Road Maintenance Engineer
Qualifications:
The Rural Road Maintenance Engineer should be a qualified profes-
sional engineer with 10-15 years experience in the planning, design, and
construction of rural roads, including the testing of soils and materials;
should have experience in operational and administrative aspects of rural
road maintenance in a government highway/roads organization and should have
suitable experience in equipment usage and control. Fluency in written and
spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties:
Will report to MLGH and will assist in the preparation and imple-
mentation of a "Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program" in the most appropriate
area to be selected, including but not limited to:
(i) establishing a system for preparing inventories of road
networks maintained by RCs, providing information in broad
terms on geometric design standards, adequacy of drainage,
soil conditions and topography;



ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
(ii)  reviewing and developing a road maintenance set up includ-
ing planning, budgeting and cost accounting procedures;
(iii) determining suitable methods of road maintenance in terms
of labor and equipment combinations;
(iv)  reviewing and updating of existing inventories of road
maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(v) determining a minimum requirement for road maintenance
equipment and establishing preventive maintenance parts
and components requirements;
(vi)  setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for road
maintenance equipment repair and overhaul procedures;
(vii) setting up small workshops/offices, key staff housing,
road camps at selected locations, to meet RCs road
maintenance needs;
(viii) preparing specifications and bid documents for civil work
construction and for procuring road maintenance and workshop
equipment and tools, evaluating bids and inspecting goods
upon delivery; and
(ix)  carrying out on-the-job training of works foremen, me-
chanics, vehicle and plant operators.
The Rural Road Maintenance Engineer shall prepare and submit the
following reports to the MLGH:
(i) Inception Report: (within one month of his starting
work) summarizing his initial findings and giving broad
proposals for setting up the program; and
(ii)  Full Report:  (within four months of his starting work)
stating his findings and the recommended road maintenance
program, together with cost estimates broken down into
foreign and local costs.
Location:
The individual will be stationed in Lusaka but will make field
trips as required.
April 1978



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Length of Roads Included in Project
Table I
Bitumen        Gravel (km)      Earth
Routine Maintenance Program          2,890  1/      6,530  1/        6,850
Periodic Maintenance Program         2,000            750              -
Footnote: _/ Includes 330 km in process of being upgraded from gravel to
bitumen standard.
Table II
Composition of Traffic
% of Traffic
Vehicles                  Bitumen Roads       Gravel Roads       Earth Roads
Passenger Car                    70                70                 70
7-ton truck                      20                23                 30
24-ton truck                     10                 7                  -
Traffic is expected to grow at 7% p.a. on bitumen and gravel roads and 5% p.a. on
earth roads.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
Table III
Vehicle Operating Costs   1/
Passenger         7-ton            24-ton
Cars              trucks          trucks
Type of Roads    Condition                (K per 100 vehicles/km)
Bitumen            Good           10.0              33.0             62.0
Fair          10.5              34.5             64.5
Poor           11.0              36.0            67.0
Gravel              Good          11.0              42.0             80.0
Fair (i)2/    15.0              50.5             92.0
(ii)3/    16.0              53.5             97.5
Poor          18.0              61.5            111.5
Very Poor   4/      20.0              78.0            143.0
Earth               Good          13.0              49.0
Poor          20.0              78.0
_/ Net of taxes and duties in November 1977 prices.
2/ Roads receiving adequate level of routine maintenance but no
periodic maintenance
3/ Roads receiving low level of routine maintenance and no
periodic maintenance
4/ Reverting to earth road status
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
Table IV
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Routine Maintenance Program
--K  million--------------------------------
Capital      Increased  1/         Savings in Vehicle
Year    Costs         Recurrent Costs      Operating Costs             Net Benefits
1977      5.2 -             --                                           (5.2)
1978      0.1               0.7                     -                    (0.8)
1979      7.4               0.9                    3.4                   (4.9)
1980      3.2               1.4                    5.0                    0.4
1981      1.1               2.4                    7.4                    3.9
1982                        2.6                   16.9                   14.3
1983                        2.6                   18.2                   15.6
1984                        2.6                   19.4                   16.8
1985                        2.6                   20.7                   18.1
1986                        2.6                   22.2                   19.6
Economic rate of return:   44%
Benefit/cost ratio          2.29: 1 3/
Shadow foreign exchange rate US$ 1.0 = K 1.0
1/ Includes increased costs for both RD and MSB
2/ Graders purchased from Canadian commodity credit
3/ Benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs and costs include
capital and increased recurrent costs.
So.uce: Mission estimates in November 1977 prices.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
Table V
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Periodic Maintenance Program
------------------------------K  million --------------------------------
Capital    Increased 1/        Savings in Vehicle   Cost  2/   Net Benefits
Year     Costs       Recurrent Costs    Operating Costs        Savings
3/
1977       1.0             -                                                  (1.0)
1978       0.1             -                                                  (0.1)
1979       5.0           0.8                     -                            (5.8)
1980       2.1           5.6                    0.1                           (7.6)
1981       0.7           5.9                    4.1                           (2.5)
1982                     3.1                    9.0                            5.9
1983                     3.1                    7.5             34.0          38.4
1984                     3.1                    5.2             34.0          36.1
1985                     3.1                    8.4                            5e3
1986                     3.1                    9.0            (45.0) 4/    (39.1)
Economic rate of return:    44%
Benefit/Cost Ratio:    1.65: 1 5/
Shadow foreign exchange rate US$ 1.0 = K 1.0
1/ Includes increased costs for both RD and MSB
2/ Without the project assumed that bituminous overlay necessary for 1,600 km of
bitumen roads between 1983 and 1984.
3/ Graders purchased from Canadian commodity credit
4/ Salvage value of overlays
5/ Benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs and costs savings from
resealing bitumen roads with the Drolect a.s compared to rehabilitating them
at a-later date without the project; costs include capital and increased
recurrent costs.
Source: Mission estimates in November 1977 prices.
April 1978



ZAMBiA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Roads Department
Under Ministry of Public Works
|Permanent Secretary|
l          l|artmenprtenst
|DRoadsoDepartments
Deut Director of Roads 
VWorks Division
| Planning and Design Division                                                          Senior Executive Engineer
| Senior Executive Enginleer   |                                                    |  (vacant)
Ord tinnce          Planning               Survey & Drawing         esigns                            ontra         ing School |
SiOrd Egne             euieEinneenCheeernior Executive                                                                  Laboratory               Maneac                dmnsrto
S , Executie       Executive          Executive         Executive       Executive            Executive       _         Executive      Executive               Executive
Engineer           Engineer           Engineer Esgineer                 Engineer             Engineer              Engineer           Engineer           Engineer
Source. Roads Department, June 1977Rj._
World Bank - 17992



CHART II
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Rural Councils Under Ministry
of Local Government and Housing
Permanent Secretary          l
|Provincial Local Governmn||  Provinciall
Finance Officer                                                                            Local Government Office
Rural Councilss
Finance and General                                          Works and Development
Purposes Committee                                            Committee
Treasury                        Administrativ                   Health                           Public Works
Department                      Department                      Department                       Department
Public Works Officer
Assistant Public Works
Officer
Works Foremen
Plant Operators
Source: Ministry of Local Government and Housing, June 1977
World Bank - 17993



CHART  TTI
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Mechanical Services Branch Under
Defense Division of President's Office
|   Permianent Secretary        |
I                 l
|Copperbelt e        Luapula   ll Eastern   l              etr            otwsen              CnrlLsk                              otenNrhr
Source: Mechanical Services Branch. June 1977.                                                                                               World Bank -17994



ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AUTHORITY                    1978                       1979                       1980                       1981                       1982
MAIN ACTIVITIES                         RESPONSIBLE                    J A=        D J F M A M J J       A S           A N D J   :M A M J J A S    N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O  N D
A.  Bank/Association Approval                                                *
B.  Signing Loan/Credit Agreement                                              *
C. Loan/Credit Agreement Effective
D.  Reorganization of MSB
Selection of Consultant                      Government
Planning                                     Govt/Consult.
Implementationi                              Government
E. Procurement of Road Maintenance and
Workshop Equipment, Spare Parts,
Tools, Training Aids
Selection of Consultant                      MSB
Preparation of Procurement
Documents                                  Consultant
Tender Arrangements to Award
of Contract                                MSB/Consultanti
Delivery                                     Supplier
F.  Rehabilitation of Equipment                     MSB
C.  Execution of Road Maintenance                   RD                                                                                                                          i
H.  Feasibility Study of Road(s)
Selection of Consultant                         RD
Execution of Study                              Consultant
I.  Detailed Engineering of Road(s)                 Consultant
J.  Rural Road Maintenance Program                  MLGH
K. Technical Assistancoi
Road Maintenance Engineers           (3)
Instructors (2)                          )     RD
Economist
Chief Mechanical Superintendents (10))
Senior Mechanical                        )     MSB                                                                   i_i
Superintendents (10)
Instructors (2)
Rural Road Maintenance Engineer                NLGH
Z                   !~~~~~



IBRDI2934
__SAi T 1iee
22                                            24C                                          260                                            2r
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network                                                                                   /
_ "ntor.iatioo mri rods                                                                                                                                                                                         T Riv  Mbey
District roads          *  ~A r-fid&
__ Rur P     district rovos       o       0     ,t-it  he,odq--rtrs-
Pre_  via Bank highsway projet     S Ps poancial headquarters                                           RL    bL                                                                                                        ,       _
Consrct2nrrro                         Distniot beundarres                                                      r   ;_ 1             ,/                    1_                      <  
, aoDerialed eaa,oeerira -               - ProDin at boundarles
Third Higayrjf
'. N                                             raasjat   study an                 -  InT9829-2438 meters
dl biROITi.d AREIC! 05Le 0                   Less -ran 129 mr-rt si
N   P11T'F oflnT         );'L-.            ZARk
_~ ~          ~         ~~~~~                      SaIn              ocoh              Sove se,                        ~                     N..        <;wLA    
A~~~~~~~~~~~ i   G                                                                             iOPP BLT A04cr *.                                      4  .-:,)  Seroae                    *?
Id  ij                                                                                                                                                                                      'N            *              iv"             To  ocqor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  5
;iosirrirbrr                               5 ; g
I \ k Q _SX W M O Z A M B~~~.0g                                                                                                       I   QU    A
5.~)             Satr                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ta silic.a   rh bair .  .lSrraoBpdvii
9   /  \   Ssh6Wa             )       V              gmba                         U                                                  R H  OD  E  S  IA                                    ,,=. .< |  rZAIRE    
A         N         G        OL  A  __ Db    r   Avc;bh  ir. v
(2                                                                                  L                                                  &P--                                                                               ~     ~     i    -c                0o0            ZAi
V                                                                   SOUTH                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rN Wt~R r    
_._    ~~  N  A M                    B IA                                    )sejSonyLnstaoa  i    431.
-lb    I                             2t  >PI-/"-JBOTSWANA\                _                                      --s7                                                       3                                             ?34s-



