FILE COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2194a-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 27, 1978
This documut bas a resticted dtrilbuon and may be used by recipients only in the perfornice of
their offiial dudle. Its contests my  no otherwibe be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977    November 1977
Currency Unit           =      Kwacha (K)            K
US$1.00                 =      K 0.79              K 0.80 1/
K 1.00                  =      US$1.27             US$1.25
WEIGHTS ANT) MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2            0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )            0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
CPO       -  Contingency Planning Office
MLGH      -  Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MPW       -  Ministry of Public Works
MSB       -  Mechanical Services Branch
MTPC      -  Ministry of Transport, Power and Communications
NCDP      -  National Commission for Development Planning
NTC       -  National Transport Corporation
SNDP      -  Second National Development Plan
TAZARA    -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TNDP      -  Third National Development Plan
UBZ       -  United Bus Company of Zambia
ZTRS      -  Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The currency equivalents used in this report are those that were in
effect in November 1977. Since that time, exchange rate fluctuations
have occurred and, on March 17, 1978, the Kwacha was devalued by 10
percent in terms of the SDR. The exchange rate as of the date of this
report was approximately US$1.00 = K 0.83.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan. Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:  Republic of Zambia
Amount:    US$22.5 million equivalent (US$11.25 million IDA and US$11.25
million IBRD)
Terms:     The IDA credit would be on standard IDA terms; the Bank loan
would be repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at
7.5 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:
The proposed project will assist the Borrower in improving the
maintenance of the rapidly deteriorating primary and secondary road network
by strengthening the responsible institutions through the provision of equip-
ment and technical assistance. The project will also include a pilot rural
road maintenance program, a feasibility study and, if justified, detailed en-
gineering of either the Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge road, or such other road or
roads as may be agreed.  The main beneficiaries will be the direct road users
and the Borrower (through cost savings on restoration of bitumen roads). Two
risks could affect the project's progress. The first is the possibility of
delay in recruiting the requisite technical assistance for the institutions
involved in road maintenance and the second is the possibility that the
performance of the organization responsible for maintenance of plant and
equipment may improve more slowly than expected.
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million           Foreign as a X
Item                   Local   Foreign   Total         of Total
A.   Road Maintenance Equipment      1.01    10.87    11.88           92
B.   Workshop Equipment and Too]>,
and Training Aids            0.11      1.2      1.31          92
C.   Consulting Services             0.21     0.82     1.03
D.   Pilot Rural Road
Maintenance Program           0.50     0.50     1.00           50
E.   Technical Assistance            1.04     4.16     5.20           80
Sub-total                 2.8/    17.j5    20.42           86
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



US$ Million             Foreign as a %
Item                     Local   Foreign   Total           of Total
F.   Contingencies:
Physical                        0.29      1.75     2.04            86
Price                           1.04     3.20      4.24            75
Sub-total                       1.33     4.95      6.28            79
Total Project Cost 1/       4.20    22.50    26.70             84
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total       Percent of Total
Bank/IDA                                -       22.50    22.50               84
Republic of Zambia                     4.20    __          4.20              16
Total                      4.20    22.50    26.70               100
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank FY                               1979      1980      1981      1982      Total
Annual:  IDA                           0.4      10.9        -         -
Bank                          -        0.7       7.0       3.5
Cumulative                             0.4      12.0      19.0      22.5      22.5
Rate of Return:    44 percent
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 1729b-ZA, dated April 17, 1978
1/   There are no taxes and duties applicable to the project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and credit to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$22.5
million (US$11.25 million each) to help finance a third highway project. The
loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.5 percent per annum, and the credit would be on standard IDA terms. The
grant element of the proposed lending is about 49 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Zambia (1586b-ZA) was issued in December
1977. Its main conclusions are reflected below. The most recent economic data
are summarized in Annex I.
3.        With its large mineral reserves and wide area of land suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia has the potential for rapid and sustained devel-
opment. Over the past decade, however, real output grew at a rate of only
2.8 percent per annum owing to relative stagnation in mining, agriculture,
construction, and transport and communications; the value added by the other
sectors increased at a higher rate - services at 6.7 percent annually and
manufacturing at 7.7 percent annually. While 1976 GNP per capita has been
estimated at US$440, per capita income in urban areas is over three times
that in rural areas, providing a powerful incentive for migration. Today
more than one-third of the country's population lives in towns and there is
substantial urban unemployment.
Goals and Performance
4.        The broad economic and social goals of Zambia's last two national
development plans (1966-1970 and 1972-76) may be summarized as follows:
(a) raising the general level of welfare; (b) diversifying the economy to
make it less dependent on copper; (c) narrowing the gap between urban and
rural incomes; and (d) raising the level of education and developing a wide
range of technical and managerial skills. While progress toward the goals
of more rapid growth, diversification and equity has been relatively slow,
substantial progress has been made in education and training.
5.        Despite stagnation in copper production since independence, Zambia's
heavy dependence upon mining continues; in 1976 the mining sector still
accounted for more than 90 percent of exports and about 21 percent of GDP.
Such a heavy reliance has had unfortunate repercussions for the country. Wide
fluctuations in world copper prices have caused serious instability in govern-
ment revenues and the balance of payments. Periods of high prices resulted in



- 2 -
the expansion of expenditure to levels which could not be sustained without
serious stress in periods of low prices. As a result of the current slump in
world demand for copper, Zambia is presently passing through its most serious
economic crisis since independence (paras. 10-12). Because of the precipitous
decline in copper prices since mid-1974, the mining companies' profits have
been severely squeezed (at times, turning to losses), their tax contribution
to the Government has declined to zero and their growing reliance on borrowing
from the central bank and commercial banks has led to a faster growth of the
domestic money supply and hence contributed to inflationary pressures.
6.        Although Zambia has plentiful land for the development of crops and
livestock, the contribution of the agricultural sector to increasing welfare,
diversifying the economy and bridging the rural-urban gap has been below its
potential. During the ten years following independence (1964-74), output
expanded at a rate of only about two percent annually, failing to keep pace
with population growth and resulting in a continuing reliance on imports of
food and agricultural raw materials, most of which Zambia has the capacity to
produce at home (e.g., wheat, rice, vegetable oils). The failure of the
sector to perform up to its potential has been due largely to government
pricing policies which discouraged production and reduced farm incomes while
insufficient government reosurces were devoted to the planning and implementa-
tion of projects.
7.        It is against this background that, in the last three years, the
Government has begun to devote greater attention to the rural areas, taking
steps to increase price incentives and improve project implementation capacity
in the rural sector. Agricultural producer prices for a wide range of crops
have been substantially increased since 1973/74 which, together with generally
favorable weather conditions, contributed to more rapid output growth; agricul-
tural value added grew at 4.6 percent per annum during the 1975-77 period.
Maize production hit record levels (in 1976 and 1977) and large increases were
registered in the output of cotton, groundnuts, wheat, rice and sunflower
seeds. The Government is committed to maintaining adequate incentives for
farmers and, in August 1977, announced further producer price increases for
the 1977/78 growing season ranging from 8 to 25 percent for maize, sunflower,
groundnuts, soybean, cotton and coffee. In addition the Government has taken
a number of steps to increase production directly and augment its capacity to
implement projects - e.g., investments in sugar have created the capacity to
export, experiments have begun in rainfed wheat production and a number of
programs have been undertaken to train manpower (particularly youth) for rural
employment. The Government has expressed its intention to strengthen the
Ministry of Lands and Agriculture and provincial administrations and a working
group has recently submitted a draft report. President Kaunda has charged the
Ministry with the responsibility of identifying and preparing projects in
eight or nine key areas of high growth potential on which the development
effort would be focused; in some cases these projects may involve only small-
holders, and, in others, estates with joint government and private ownership,
with smallholders as outgrowers. The Bank is currently providing assistance
to a special unit in the Ministry for the identification and preparation of
projects in these areas.



8.        Manufacturing, though expanding more slowly than in the 1960s,
has contributed to growth and diversification while providing employment
for a growing number of migrants from the rural areas. However, much of
the investment in manufacturing has been for final stage assembly or processing
industries, necessitating large inputs of imported raw materials and capital
goods. Such a structure of development has made the sector more vulnerable to
periodic foreign exchange shortages and meant that its contribution to import
substitution and employment has been less than would have been the case with
an investment policy more oriented towards agro-processing and resource based
industries - e.g., fruits and vegetables processing, cooking oil, sugar,
copperwire and cable, textiles and clothing, wood products, and furniture.
9.        Zambia has made important strides in improving the economic and
social infrastructure necessary for future development. Investments in
power and transportation have laid the basis for a future expansion in copper
production and the rest of the modern sector. At independence, Zambia was in
a particularly difficult position regarding the availability of trained
manpower. Since then the expansion of the educational system has been im-
pressive. From 1964 to 1974, primary school enrollments doubled and secondary
and technical school enrollments more than quadrupled; since its establishment
in 1966, the University of Zambia has produced 860 graduates and enrollment
has increased more than sevenfold. Despite these achievements, skilled
manpower remains an important constraint on the development effort.
The Current Economic Crisis
10.       Because of Zambia's dependence upon copper, the fall in copper
prices from US$0.93/lb in 1974 to an average of US$0.60/lb during the 1975-77
period has had serious consequences for the balance of payments, government
budget and domestic production. The sharp decline in copper prices (combined
with stagnating copper sales volumes) has led to large balance of payments
deficits beginning in 1975. Despite government controls on imports (which,
when combined with an average rate of increase of 20 percent annually in
import prices, has sharply reduced import volumes), a 20 percent devaluation
of the Kwacha in mid-1976 and stricter controls over service payments (e.g.,
expatriate remittances, foreign travel), current account deficits of US$611
million, US$58 million and US$228 million were incurred during the years 1975
to 1977 respectively. Because net capital inflows during the three years were
far short of the amounts necessary to finance such current account deficits,
the deficits were covered by an accumulation of arrears in payments for
imports and for private foreign remittances and a decline in foreign exchange
holdings. By the end of 1977, arrears had accumulated to US$470 million.
Between the ends of 1974 and 1977 net foreign assets fell from US$119 million
to minus US$227 million dollars; gross international reserves at the end of
1977 stood at US$74 million (the equivalent of just under one month's worth of
imports).
11.       Through its import licensing system, the Government has attempted
to allocate foreign exchange to those products most essential for the opera-
tion of the economy. While the real volume of imported consumption items



fell 65 percent between 1975 and 1977, imports of capital goods and of spare
parts, raw materials and intermediatie goods fell 42 and 32 percent respectively.
Shortages of spare parts and essential intermediate goods have created idle
capacity and unemployment in m..-y productive sectors and contributed to a
decline in real output. While real GDP fell 2 percent between 1975 and 1977,
larger declines were suffered in manufacturing (11 percent), construction
(13.8 percent), and transport, communications and storage (25.8 percent),
sectors particularly affected by shortages of essential imports.
12.       To counter the effects of falling mineral tax revenues, the Govern-
ment has attempted to curb expenditures while increasing non-mineral tax
revenues. Firstly, in contrast to the 1965-75 growth rate of 15 percent per
annum, recurrent expenditures expanded at 4.2 percent annually during the
1975-77 period (far less than the rate of inflation).  Government wages
have been frozen while subsidies were cut by 20 percent through substantial
increases in the prices of fertilizers and important basic foods such as maize
meal, wheat flour and bread; nonetheLess other recurrent expenditures have
continued to expand, mainly due to greater servicing charges on foreign and
domestic debt and rising prices of goods purchased by Government. Secondly,
capital expenditures have been cut by about 30 percent, severely reducing the
Government's development effort; in real terms government capital expenditures
during 1975 to 1977 were lower than in the late 1960s. Thirdly, non-mineral
tax revenues have been expanded greatly through higher personal and company
taxes and increases in the rates and coverage of sales, excise and customs
taxes; during 1975 to 1977, income tax revenues increased 39 percent while
revenues from sales and excise taxes and tariffs grew by 28 percent. Despite
these expenditures and tax measures, which partially offset the effects of the
precipitous decline in mineral revenues and brought a steady decline in the
size of budgetary deficits over the three year period, the deficits remained
unacceptably large and had to be financed mainly by borrowing from the central
bank and commercial banks. Such monetary finance added to inflationary
pressures at a time when falling domestic production and declining import
volumes were reducing the available supply of goods. During the 1975-77
period the rate of inflation averaged 16 percent annually.
The 1978 Budget and Economic Program
13.       Through a reduction in expenditures and increased taxes, the Govern-
ment plans to bring about a sharp decline in the size of the 1978 budgetary
deficit, thus (together with an expansion in disbursements from foreign loans)
reducing its reliance on borrowing from the central bank and commercial banks
by over 60 percent as compared with the 1977 level; these measures should
contribute to reducing inflationary pressures. Among the major budgetary
measures are: a reduction in recurrent expenditures mainly due to a 33
percent cut in subsidies resulting from substantial price increases for maize
meal and fertilizers; a freeze on the level of capital investment, which,
taking into account inflation, will reduce the Government's investment program
to the lowest level since independence (1964); and an eight percent increase
in non-mineral revenues mainly through higher duties on imports of capital
goods and luxuries and higher sales aLnd excise taxes on various luxury items.



-5 -
In addition to these budgetary measures, the Government has taken other steps
to strengthen its anti-inflation program, increase the diversification of the
economy and ensure more appropriate relative factor prices. Among the most
important measures are: (a) a 10 percent devaluation of the Kwacha (on March
17, 1978) designed to increase the international competitiveness of Zambian
goods and, together with cost cutting measures, increase mining company
profits, thus reducing their reliance on the domestic banking system for
borrowed funds; (b) increased agricultural producer prices (see para. 7) and a
30 percent increase in government budgetary investment in agriculture (at a
time when the capital budgets of most other ministries are being cut); (c) an
Industrial Development Act designed to attract private domestic and foreign
capital through assurances about nationalization and to promote such government
goals as exports, use of local raw materials, use of labor-intensive techniques
and the development of rural, small-scale industries through various types of
tax incentives; and (d) a freeze on wages and an increase in interest rates in
order to hold down private consumption and encourage savings as well as
promote more labor-intensive production techniques.
External Capital Requirements
14.       Zambia has relied on external capital flows to an extent similar
to other African nations with comparable per capita income (e.g., Ivory Coast
and Congo). The terms of these flows range from the very concessionary terms
given by the People's Republic of China to suppliers' credits and Euro-dollar
loans. With a 24 percent share in debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1977, the Bank is the country's largest creditor, just ahead of the People's
Republic of China (22 percent) and private banks (23 percent). Zambia's
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to US$1.3 billion at
the end of 1977. Owing to greater reliance on external capital flows, a
growing proportion of which has been from commercial lenders, and to a trend
toward harder loan terms from all sources (except bilateral), Zambia's debt
service ratio has increased since the late 1960s. These factors, in combina-
tion with relatively low copper prices, led to a debt service ratio of 19.4
percent in 1977.
15.       Given current copper price projections and the need to build-up
foreign exchange holdings and pay off arrears, the 1978-80 period will see
continued balance of payments stringency. Owing to the sluggish recovery
of the world economy, current Bank projections show almost no improvement
in real copper prices before 1981.  Given such constraints, the Government
will have to maintain tight import controls with consequent continued short-
ages of spare parts and materials, unutilized productive capacity and unem-
*          ployment.  Even under such restraints, net capital flows required to cover
the current account deficits, pay off arrears and eliminate the negative net
foreign assets balance by the end of 1980, would exceed US$1 billion between
1978 and 1980. Over US$380 million is being provided by IMF resources, in-
cluding a standby agreement (approved by the Fund Board on April 26, 1978),
the Compensatory Financing Facility and the Trust Fund. Zambia's terms of
trade are expected to improve in the early 1980's (current Bank projections



-6-
show an increase in real copper prices, as compared with 1977, of 40 percent
by 1981 and 67 percent by 1985). Its capital requirements, therefore, should
fall, averaging around US$300 million per annum during the 1981-85 period.
In obtaining capital over the 1978-85 period, the past trend toward harder
loan terms for Zambia's external borrowing should not continue. The
Government has requested the Bank to form a Consultative Group for Zambia to
facilitate aid coordination. The first meeting is tentatively scheduled for
late June 1978. While Zambia, because of the longer-term prospects of copper
prices, would be creditworthy for bor-rowing a portion of its requirements on
commercial terms, bilateral donors ares increasingly interested in lending in
the southern African region on comparatively soft terms. The Bank also con-
siders Zambia to be eligible for a small amount of IDA lending in view of
the country's large short- and medium--term capital requirements, its recent
progress towards economic diversification and improved fiscal management
(paras. 13 and 14), and its per capita income level. On these assumptions,
Zambia's debt service ratio would remain about 19-20 percent through 1980,
slowly declining thereafter as Zambia"s terms of trade improve, reaching about
15 percent in 1985.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Since 1956, the Bank has made 23 loans in Zambia totalling about
$507 million.  Ten loans, totalling $323 million (64 percent), financed
physical infrastructure projects of which power, transportation and com-
munications accounted for three-quarters of the total amount. Four loans
for education helped to expand and develop Zambia's secondary school system,
teacher training and higher education. In 1974 the Bank made a loan for
urban development and a $30 million program loan. The program loan was slow
to disburse due to dramatically improved copper prices which reduced the Gov-
ernment's need for the funds, and partly because the disbursement mechanism
proved more complicated than expected. At the Government's request, $12.5
million of the loan was cancelled in June 1975. The Bank also made a loan
to the Development Bank of Zambia in 1976 to help finance manufacturing and
commercial farming. A second program loan extended in late 1976 provided
foreign exchange for importing essential capital and intermediate goods, raw
materials and spare parts for agriculture, mining and manufacturing. A loan
for industrial forestry in 1977 is assisting the Government's long-term plan-
tation program, and an expansion of logging and sawmilling capacity. Twelve
loans are now fully disbursed; one was cancelled and the disbursed portion
prepaid (para. 18). In 1977, the Bank's shares of Zambia's total debt (dis-
bursed and outstanding) and total debt: service payments were 24 percent and
13 percent respectively. On the basis of present projections, these percent-
ages are expected to be less than 25 percent each in the mid-1980s.



- 7 -
17.       IFC made its first investment in Zambia in 1972 by providing $1.1
million (including $227,500 in equity) for the expansion of the Zambia Bata
Shoe Company, Ltd. and, in 1973, invested an additional $1.2 million in
Bata for a tannery. IFC in May 1975 invested about $1.0 million in Century
Packages, Ltd. for a packaging materials factory and invested a further
$100,000 in the company in January 1978. An IFC investment of $550,000
equivalent in the share capital of the Development Bank of Zambia was made in
February 1976 in conjunction with a $15.0 million Bank loan to that institution.
A summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments along with notes on the
execution of ongoing projects is contained in Annex II.
18.       Agricultural and rural sector development is essential to diversify
the economy and improve rural living conditions. Until recently, progress in
this sector has been difficult, primarily because of the Government's weak-
nesses in making and carrying out suitable policies and in formulating and
implementing effective programs. Nevertheless, the Bank made five loans
during 1968-77 for industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops
and integrated family farming. The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at
the Government's request. The project was having serious problems due mainly
to adverse pricing policies and poor management. To help identify the sector's
problems and possible solutions, the Bank, at the Government's request,
undertook a rural sector survey in 1975. The report has stimulated wide
discussions about agriculture and rural development at all levels of Government,
and is playing a key role in increasing cooperation between Zambia and the
Bank Group in the development of this sector.
19.       During the past year, the Bank Group has been providing substantial
assistance to the Government in the preparation of programs and projects for
rural development. A coffee project has just been appraised and prepara-
tion of a cotton project is near completion. Bank Group assistance in this
sector, however, is not limited to agricultural projects as such. The
Fourth Education project, approved in late 1976, includes a major component
for training farmers and government agricultural technicians. A rural water
supply project, now under preparation, will provide assistance to smaller
towns in predominantly rural environs.
20.       In addition to the agricultural and rural sector, the Bank Group
has carried out sector surveys of urbanization and water supply and sewerage.
A basic economic mission which visited Zambia in June/July 1975, and subse-
quent follow-up missions, focused largely on the industrial and mining sectors
as well as manpower planning in its broadest aspects.  The reports of these
missions have provided the basis for a more intensive dialogue between the
Bank and Zambia.
21.       While the Bank Group's program will continue to emphasize agricul-
tural and rural development, it will also continue to support the development
of industry, and of physical and social infrastructure. Further assistance is
being considered for the Development Bank of Zambia to help it continue its
efforts in industry and commercial agriculture, and for the next stage of the
country's hydropower development. In all aspects of the Bank Group's program,
institution building will continue to occupy a central position.



- 8 -
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
22.       Zambia's transport system comprises approximately 35,000 km of
roads (including about 19,000 km of primary and secondary roads), 2,000 km
of railways, 150 airstrips, and a 1,700 km oil pipeline from Dar es Salaam
in Tanzania to Ndola in the Copperbelt. Given its land-locked position,
Zambia has attached high priority to the development of outlets to the sea.
The internal transport system, including the main rail system, has developed
mainly in accordance with settlement patterns along a narrow strip between
Livingstone, in the southwest, Lusaka in the southeast, and northward through
the Copperbelt. This strip contains many of the important mining and indus-
trial concerns, and is one of the best agricultural areas in the country. In
recent years, however, greater emphasis has been given to the development of
roads to provincial centers outside the line-of-rail.
23.       Zambia has two main railway systems.  The Zambia Railway extends
827 km from the Victoria Falls Bridge on the Rhodesian border to the Copper-
belt area in the north where it links up via Zaire to the Benguela Railway,
and thence to the port of Lobito in Angola. Various spurs totalling about 250
km have also been built to serve mines, refineries and other industries in the
Copperbelt area. Total freight traffic declined about 44 percent between 1972
and 1975 to about 1.0 billion ton-kilometers as a result of, inter alia, the
closure of the border with Rhodesia in 1973 and the suspension of services
on the Benguela Railway in 1975. This has been exacerbated by a shortage of
locomotives, rolling stock and qualified staff, which Zambia Railways is
attempting to rectify. The jointly-owned Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA)
connects with the Zambia Railway at Kapiri Mposhi in the Copperbelt and
extends for about 1,850 km (880 of which are inside Zambia) to the port of Dar
es Salaam. Total Zambian freight over this line was about 1.2 billion ton -
kilometers in 1976. Freight capacity is now estimated at two million tons per
annum and may eventually be increased to five million tons per annum. Actual
freight carried, however, has been much less because of long delays in loading
operations in Zambia.
24.       Air transport services have been developed to help integrate widely
scattered settlements into the life of the country. Of the 150 airstrips
in Zambia, 52 are Government-owned. In 1967, Zambia Airways Corporation was
established as a parastatal corporation to provide domestic and international
services. In 1976, Zambia Airways carried about 167,000 domestic passengers,
77,000 international passengers, and 21,000 tons of international air freight.
Scheduled air services link Zambia with Europe and a number of African coun-
tries.
25.       The pipeline was completed in 1968 and is jointly owned and operated
by Tanzania and Zambia. It carries almost all of Zambia's crude oil imports,
about 850,000 tons in 1976, as well as about 50,000 tons destined for Zaire.
26.       The Government seeks to maintain control of external trade through
a Contingency Planning Office (CPO), which was set up under the President's



- 9 -
Office following the border closure with Rhodesia in 1973 which necessitated
a major rerouting of Zambia's trade. International haulage is provided
by the two railways and two companies, the parastatal National Transport
Corporation (NTC), and the multinational Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
(ZTRS), an associate company of NTC. ZTRS operates on the Dar-es-Salaam
route, and Contract Haulage, a subsidary of NTC, operates mainly on the
Beira (Mozambique) route via Malawi.
27.       Of the total number of vehicles engaged in road haulage (about
2,500 to 3,000), approximately 40 percent are operated by NTC and ZTRS and
the rest by small independent private operators owning an average of 5 to
10 trucks each. Haulage rates vary for different routes and commodities,
but the overall level is generally set by the parastatal transport companies
which must also obtain government approval for rate increases.  Internal
road haulage is usually undertaken by private operators. The United Bus
Company of Zambia (UBZ), a subsidiary of NTC, accounts for about half of
total road passenger transport capacity. Private operators provide the
remaining passenger transport.
28.       In 1975, the vehicle fleet consisted of about 160,000 vehicles,
of which 59 percent were automobiles, 18 percent light commercial vehicles,
11 percent trucks, and 12 percent other types of vehicles. Overall, the
fleet has been growing at nine percent per annum since 1970, although annual
registration of new vehicles has generally been decreasing, probably due to
the down-turn in the economic situation and import license restrictions im-
posed during the late 1960s and 70s. All vehicles must be registered and
licensed. The road haulage licensing system, however, needs to be reviewed
since present procedures are inefficient and somewhat arbitrary, and do not
allow for flexibility of operations. The proposed project includes assistance
for such a review (para. 39(d)). The Roads and Road Traffic Act governs
vehicle weights and dimensions, and provides adequate legislation to protect
the road network. Axle loads, however, are often grossly exceeded, and
overweight vehicles are common on Zambia's roads. The Borrower, therefore,
will take actions required to ensure that vehicle axle-loads, dimensions and
weights do not exceed legal limits (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
29.       General government revenues obtained through taxes and duties on
vehicles, fuel, lubricants and spare parts, and through license and regis-
tration fees, totalled about US$46 million equivalent in 1975. Road users
contributed a substantial portion of these revenues which, in 1975, were
sufficient to cover road maintenance expenditures and contribute to new
road construction. Although road maintenance expenditures will increase
under the proposed project, revenues from road users should still be suffi-
cient to cover the increased costs.
30.       The Ministry of Public Works (MPW), through its Roads Department,
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the primary and sec-
ondary road network, comprising about 19,000 km of roads (including about
4,600 km of paved roads and 7,600 km of all-weather gravel roads). The
organization of the Roads Department is basically satisfactory. It has three



- 10 -
divisions at its headquarters in Lusaka, Planning and Design, Works, and
Administration, and nine provincial divisions, each headed by a Provincial
Road Engineer. The Planning Division is responsible for highway planning, and
assists the Ministry of Transport, Power, and Communications (MTPC), which is
responsible for overall transport planning. For road maintenance purposes,
the road network is divided into 122 zones, each zone having an average of
150 km of roads. Four to five zones form a district (29 in all), with three
or four districts in each of the nine provinces. Routine maintenance is
carried out by zonal crews headed by a Road Ranger/Foreman, and each district
is supervised by a Road Superintendent. In turn, the Superintendents are
responsible to a Road Inspector stationed at provincial headquarters.  Periodic
maintenance, such as regravelling/resealing and heavy maintenance work, is
carried out through special crews (18 in all) under the Road Inspectors. The
activities of the Roads Department, however, have been limited by a shortage
of qualified staff, both at headquarters and in the provinces. At present,
only 17 of the 29 established posts for Engineers, and 11 of 17 posts for Road
Inspectors, are filled. In addition, a number of subordinate posts (materials
officers, engineering assistants) are vacant. The Government is making
efforts to strengthen the Roads Department, and this will also be an important
element of the proposed project (para. 43).
31.       The 34 Rural Councils, under the Ministry of Local Government and
Housing (MLGH), are responsible for development and maintenance of the
estimated 16,000 km of rural district roads, comprising the tertiary road
system. These are generally low standard earth roads for which no reliable
inventory exists. The Councils presently have few or no facilities, nor
skilled manpower, for road maintenance. The condition of these roads, which
is poor, continues to deteriorate. In view of the present constraints of the
Rural Councils, an important focus of the proposed project will be to assist
the Government in determining how maintenance, planning, and operations of
district roads can be improved (para. 39(b)).
32.       The Mechanical Services Branch (MSB), under the Defense Division
of the Office of the President, is responsible for the procurement, mainte-
nance and repairs of all civilian government vehicles and plant; the majority
of its staff are civilian. MSB has a central workshop in Lusaka and nine
provincial, and 54 district, workshops. MSB's inadequate staff and workshop
facilities and weak management, together with unsatisfactory maintenance and
repair systems, have resulted in low vehicle and equipment availability rates
(as low as 25-30 percent for the Roads Department) and consequent inefficient
road maintenance operations. One-third of the 24 senior level management
positions are vacant. A substantial number of posts in the lower grades
(mechanical superintendents, engineering assistants and skilled mechanics) are
also vacant, particularly those for mechanics. This situation is exacerbated
by functional difficulties caused by MSB's position outside the normal civil
service lines of communication. In light of these difficulties, the proposed
project will include assistance for reorganizing MSB and strengthening it
through the provision of technical assistasnce and training (para. 39(d) and 44).
33.       The Ministry of Local Government and Housing, the Roads Department
and MSB all have training facilities. The Ministry of Local Government and



- 11 -
Housing operates a training institute, primarily for secretarial and adminis-
trative personnel, which has facilities for about 100 students. The Roads
Department has a well organized and equipped school in Lusaka for lower-level
staff (plant operators, road gangers/foremen, and road superintendents) that
can accommodate about 48 students at a time. The school's output has been
sufficient to meet the Department's needs for this category of s.aff, and
career progress of staff trained at the school has been adequate. Neverthe-
less, there is a need for additional full-time instructors in order to
assist in improving present curricula and to teach additional methods of road
maintenance including those involving labor-intensive techniques. MSB also
has the physical facilities for training but lacks qualified instructors and
a regularly organized training program, particularly for mechanics. The
proposed project, therefore, will include technical assistance for both the
Roads Department and MSB to address these needs (para. 39(d) and 43).
34.       The Second National Development Plan (SNDP) (1972-76, later extended
to 1977), allocated US$389 million equivalent to the transport sector, or 28
percent of total public investment. These funds were used for (i) construc-
tion of TAZARA (40 percent); Zambia Railways, the oil pipeline, and air and
water transport (33 percent); and road construction (27 percent). Of the
US$104 million equivalent allocated for roads, an estimated US$100 million
has been disbursed and a further US$19 million equivalent has been allocated
for ongoing projects, resulting in a US$15 million increase in the road con-
struction program. This level of investment appears to have been reasonable
in view of the already extensive length of Zambia's road network. An inte-
grated long-term sectoral plan, which will form part of the Third National
Development Plan (1979-83), is presently being drawn up by a Transport Coor-
dinating Committee, formed by the National Commission for Development Plan-
ning (NCDP). The Committee consists of representatives of the Ministry of
Power, Transport and Communications, the Contingency Planning Office, the
national transport companies and other concerned ministries. It is important
that investment plans for external transport take into account the options
open to Zambia and the many alternatives which may arise in the future once
events permit the Benguela Railway and the border with Rhodesia to be reopened.
35.       The Bank Group has helped finance two road projects in Zambia.
First, US$17.5 million was made available in 1966 (Loan 469-ZA) for the
engineering, reconstruction and paving of sections totalling about 600 km
of the Great East Road (Lusaka to Malawi) and the Great North Road (Lusaka
to Tanzania). The project was completed on time in 1969, well within cost
estimates. While the audit report did not recalculate the economic benefits
because of a lack of data on road user costs, the actual rate of return was
probably higher than the 11 to 14 percent estimated at appraisal because of
savings in construction costs and higher than forecast increases in traffic.
The second project was financed by a US$10.7 million loan made in 1968 (Loan
563-ZA) and consisted of the engineering and reconstruction to two-lane
bituminous paved standards of a 379 km section of the Great North Road, and
the provision of three weighbridges for this road. This project was also
completed on time with a minor cost overrun of US$300,000 over the appraisal
estimate of US$17.5 million. A rate of return was not calculated in the audit



- 12 -
report but since traffic levels were higher than expected, it was estimated
in the report that the 12 to 15 percent rate of return forecast at appraisal
was realized. While both projects achieved their main objectives of provid-
ing Zambia with improved alternative routes to the sea, the audit report
noted that the Government's road maintenance program was not as successful
as had been expected, and consequently the condition of the road network had
deteriorated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       A report entitled "Zambia - Appraisal of a Third Highway Project,"
No. 1729b-ZA, dated April 17, 1978, is being distributed separately.
37.       The proposed project arose out of the Bank and Association's con-
tinuing dialogue with the Government on the needs of the transport sector.
In 1976, agreement was reached on the urgent need to improve road maintenance
operations in order to arrest the rapid deterioration of the road network.
The project was prepared by the Roads Department and the Mechanical Services
Branch, with the assistance of Bank Group staff. A preparation mission
visited Zambia in September 1976 and the project was appraised in the field in
March 1977, with a follow-up mission in June 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington from January 9 to 13, 1978. The Delegation was led by Mr. N.
Kalala, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Public Works, and included Mr. T.
Ngoma, Director of Roads, and Captain Diddee, Assistant Director, Mechanical
Services Branch.
Objectives and Description of the Project
38.       The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Borrower
in improving the maintenance of the rapidly deteriorating road network by
strengthening the responsible institutions through the provision of equipment
and technical assistance.
39.       To meet this objective, the proposed project will consist of the
following:
(a) A program to improve maintenance of the primary and secondary road
networks.  The program will help improve routine maintenance of the entire
19,000 km of roads administered by the Roads Department (para. 30). Periodic
maintenance will also be improved, but only for certain priority routes in
view of the large backlog of work, and the limited availability of funds and
manpower. These routes will include about 2,000 km of bituminous paved roads
and 750 km of gravel roads that are in urgent need of resealing or regravel-
ling. For the program, the project will provide for: (i) the purchase of new
road maintenance equipment; (ii) the rehabilitation, where economical, of
existing equipment; (iii) spare parts for new and existing equipment; (iv)
nine mobile workshops for the Roads Department (one for each province) for
equipment servicing and minor repairs; and (v) supplementary workshop equip-
ment, tools and training aids for the Mechanical Services Branch (para. 32).



- 13 -
(b) A pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program to determine how the mainten-
ance planning and operations of the Rural Councils can be improved. The
program will cover two Rural Councils, to be selected by the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing, and will require the provision of a few small workshops/
offices, key staff housing, road camps, and basic equipment and tools. US$1.0
million, excluding contingencies, has been allocated for this purpose in the
proposed project.
(c) A feasibility study and, if justified (para. 45), detailed engineer-
ing of the Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge road (240 km), or such other road or
roads of equally high priority as may be agreed between the Borrower, the
Bank, and the Association. Proposals for the Third National Development
Plan, which are being reviewed, include upgrading to bituminous standards the
existing Mansa-Nchelenge road which is gravelled and poorly engineered. The
road is important because it connects Mansa, the capital of Luapula Province,
and the rest of the country with important fishing and agricultural areas.
(d) Technical assistance to the Roads Department, Mechanical Services
Branch, and Ministry of Local Government and Housing for operations and
training. For the Roads Department, the project will provide (i) three road
maintenance engineers to assist in planning, coordinating and implementing the
road maintenance program, training of counterparts, and improving the traffic
count system; (ii) one transport economist to assist with highway planning,
project evaluation, maintenance programming, and reviewing the country's
road haulage licensing system; and (iii) two training experts to help allevi-
ate the shortage of instructors in the Department's training school. For
the Mechanical Services Branch, the project will provide twenty mechanical
superintendents (two for headquarters and two for each of the nine provincial
workshops) and two training experts who will focus on the training needs of
mechanics. The Ministry of Local Government and Housing will be provided
with one expert to assist the preparation and implementation of the Pilot
Rural Road Maintenance Program. The Borrower will employ these experts by
September 30, 1978 (Section 3.03(b), draft Development Credit Agreement) and,
in view of the current housing shortage, will take all reasonable action
required to make available adequate living accommodations for them (Section
3.03(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Consultant services to assist the Borrower: (i) in preparing speci-
fications and bidding documents for road maintenance and workshop equipment
and in bid evaluation (about 6 man-months at US$6,000 per man-month); (ii) in
drawing up a plan for the reorganization of MSB (about 20 man-months at
US$6,000 per man-month); and (iii) in carrying out the study and engineering
referred to in (c) above (about 105 man-months at US$6,000 per man-month, plus
needed vehicles and equipment).
Cost Estimates and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.7 million
equivalent. There are no taxes and duties applicable to the project. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$22.5 million, or 84 percent of



- 14 -
the total project cost. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Loan,
Credit and Project Summary. Costs have been estimated on the basis of prices
and exchange rates at November 1977. The value of the US dollar in terms of
the Zambian Kwacha has fluctuated since that time (partly as a result of the
March 17, 1978 devaluation of the Kwacha by 10 percent in terms of the SDR)
and it is currently valued at about 4 percent less than in November. Thus
there is no material effect on the cost estimates, the financing plan or the
rate of return. The cost estimate for the road maintenance and workshop
equipment is based on estimates of MSB and quotations by Zambian suppliers.
Estimates for consultant services and technical assistance are based on
similar services provided in the recent past.
41.       The proposed loan and credit of US$22.5 million would finance the
full foreign exchange component and the Borrower would finance the balance
of US$4.2 million equivalent. In addition, the Borrower would provide
recurrent funds for road maintenance, which are primarily for salaries and
wages of local staff, and materials such as bitumen and fuel. These are
estimated at about US$12 million, US$19.5 million, US$21 million and US$18.5
million equivalent for the fiscal years 1979 through 1982, respectively
(Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). Similarly, the Borrower
would provide recurrent funds for MSB, which are estimated at US$1.7 million,
US$2.7 million, US$3.8 million and US.$4.0 million equivalent for the fiscal
years 1979 through 1982, respectively (Section 4.04, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank Group will review annually the adequacy
of the funds allocated by the Borrower to the Roads Department and MSB (Section
4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
42.       The Roads Department will be responsible for executing the road
maintenance program, improving its training program, and carrying out a feasi-
bility study and detailed engineering of the Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge road,
or such other road or roads as may be agreed (para 39 (c)). The Ministry of
Local Government and Housing, through the Rural Councils, will be responsible
for executing the Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program. The Mechanical
Services Branch will be responsible for the procurement and maintenance of
all vehicles, plant and equipment, and for improving its training program.
Suitably qualified consultants will be employed to assist the carrying out
of certain tasks (para 39(e)).
43.       In order to help strengthen these institutions, substantial tech-
nical assistance is included in the project (para. 39(d)). The Borrower
also will employ an additional three Senior Executive Engineers and one Chief
Materials Officer in the Roads Department to fill existing vacancies by
September 30, 1978 (Section 3.02(b), d[raft Development Credit Agreement).
Further, in order to help ensure the asvailability of qualified Zambian staff
in the future, the Borrower will prepare, by September 30, 1978, a program
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association for the career development of
local staff in the Roads Department and subsequently implement the program
(Section 4.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the Borrower



- 15 -
will prepare training programs that are satisfactory to the Bank and the
Association (Section 3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement), and will
train the road maintenance staff of the Rural Councils in the Roads Depart-
ment's training school (Section 4.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       The Mechanical Services Branch must also be reorganize.' to make
it more responsive to the needs of the road maintenance program and to im-
prove coordination between MSB and other government departments (para. 32).
The Borrower, therefore, will (i) prepare, by December 31, 1978, a plan of
action (including specific targets), satisfactory to the Bank and the Associa-
tion, to improve MSB's efficiency; such plan to include, inter alia, limiting
MSB's services to non-military vehicles, equipment and plant; and (ii) carry
out such plan within nine months from the date of its preparation (Section
3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).  Employment of consultants for
preparing the plan of action will be a condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Implementation of the project is scheduled to begin in mid-1978
and be completed by late 1982. The preparation of specifications, bidding
documents, and plans to reorganize MSB should begin in May 1978. The con-
tract for road maintenance and workshop equipment, spare parts, tools and
training aids is expected to be awarded by February 1979 with delivery com-
mencing in July 1979. Correspondingly, the road maintenance program should
also commence at this time. The feasibility study of either the Mansa-
Kawambwa-Nchelenge road (or another road of equally high priority) is ex-
pected to begin in January 1979, and the detailed engineering, if found
justified by the Bank Group and the Borrower, in October 1979, with com-
pletion in September 1980. The Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program is
expected to begin in January 1979 and be completed by December 1980.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Contracts for road maintenance and workshop equipment, including
a supply of spare parts, estimated to cost about US$11.6 million equivalent
(excluding contingencies) will be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines with separate contracts for
each type or group of similar types of equipment. The Borrower, however,
will not enter into these contracts until the requisite technical experts
for the Roads Department and MSB have been employed (Schedule 3(c), draft
Development Credit Agreement).  Suppliers of equipment not already repre-
sented in Zambia will be required to provide training for mechanics and plant
operators. In addition, they will be required to maintain an adequate organ-
ization and a reasonable inventory of spare parts in Zambia. The spare parts
required for rehabilitating and maintaining existing equipment, and training
aids, estimated to cost about US$1.5 million equivalent (excluding contin-
gencies), will involve a wide range of items of various makes and are unlikely
to attract international competition. These will therefore be procured, after
calling competitive quotations from established suppliers within the country
and abroad, in accordance with government procurement procedures. These



- 1 6 -
local procedures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and found to be satis-
factory. Similarly, equipment, materials and other items, estimated to cost
US$1.0 million equivalent (exclmllng contingenci.es), required for the Pilot
Rural Road Maintenance Program are unlikely to attract international competi-
tion and will also be procured in accordance with government procedures.
47.       The Bank will disburse agairLst:  (i) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for road maintenance and workshop equipment, tools, training
aids and spare parts that are directly, imported, and 70 percent of total
expenditures for those that are imported and procured locally; (ii) 50 per-
cent of total expenditures for the Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program;
and (iii) 80 percent of total expenditures for consultant services and tech-
nical assistance. Retroactive financing of up to US$180,000 is proposed for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1978 on consultant services for re-
organizing MSB and preparing bidding documents and evaluating bids (Schedule
1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
48.       The road network in Zambia is rapidly deteriorating because of
inadequate maintenance. Investment already made on the roads is being lost,
particularly on bitumen roads which, if maintenance is not improved, will
need costly remedial work in a few years. Many of the bitumen roads play
vital roles as international transport routes, and service important mining
and industrial areas. Many gravel roads are deteriorating into earth roads.
If steps are not taken quickly to arrest this deterioration, there will be
serious economic and social consequences, particularly for the 65 percent
of Zambia's population who live in rural areas and depend on roads to market
their produce, obtain agricultural inputs, and reach health, education and
other government services. Traffic levels on the gravel roads selected for
periodic maintenance are from 200 to 400 vehicles per day, and are projected
to increase at seven percent annually over the next decade.
49.       Benefits from both the routine and periodic maintenance programs
have been calculated. The benefits from the periodic maintenance include
savings arising from vehicle operating costs and from resealing the bitumen
roads which, if not resealed during the project period, will need costlier
treatment, such as bituminous overlays, much earlier than if resealing takes
place.  The benefits from the routine imaintenance program arise from vehicle
operating cost savings only. The economic return for each program separately
is estimated at 44 percent. The first year return is about 26 percent when a
12 percent discount rate is used. The main beneficiaries will be the direct
road users, and the Borrower through ciDst savings on restoration of bitumen
roads.
50.       While the project is economically sound, two risks could affect
its progress. The first is the possibility of delay in filling the essen-
tial posts in the Roads Department and MSB which, in turn, would cause a
delay in procurement and the implementation of the maintenance programs.
Consequently, further deterioration of the road network could occur. The
second is the possibility that MSB's performance may improve more slowly



- 17 -
than expected, thereby hindering the road maintenance programs. The rate
of return, however, would still be about 12 percent for both the routine
and periodic maintenance programs if only 45 percent of the planned periodic
maintenance and 40 percent of the routine maintenance is carried out during
the project period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement and draft Development Credit Agreement
between the Republic of Zambia, and the Bank and the Association, respec-
tively; the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and in Article V, Section
1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association; are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness will be the employment of
consultants to prepare a plan of action to improve the efficiency of the
Mechanical Services Branch (Section 5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 27, 1978
Washington, D.C.



-18 -
ANNX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------------
----------------                                 ZAMBIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      752.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     350.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           IVORY COAST   CHILE           YUGOSLAVIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     180.0*    300.0*   440.0*/a              350.0*      820.0*      830.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             3.2       4.3       5.1/a                5.4         9.4        20.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0        6.0        7.0 /a             16.0       12.0         80.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         9.0       12.0       15.0/a.            32.0        58.0        139.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.5       49.7       51.5               46.1         32.9       21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          23.1       20.9       20.3               23.3         11.0         9.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..         ..         ..                  .        79.0        55.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       38.5       43.5       44.5               41.0        60.6        67.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.3        3.3                 3.1         2.2         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.8        2.9        2.9                3.4/a       2.4          1.0
URBAN                                           13.6/a      6.3                S.77E       3.5         4.6
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           20.0      30.0       36.3                2B.0        76.0        38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.0 /a   45.8        46.5               42.5        39.0        28.3
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51 .0rbC 51.9         60.9               54.8        56.3        64.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0 tfaD   2.3        2.6                2.7         4.7          7.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0       0.9        1.0                 0.8         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..        ..        1.8/b               0.9/c       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..                  ..      403.5
USERS (x OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)              ..        ..    1310.0              2600.0      2900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           ..         .-       52.0               82.0        21.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..      10.0/b       .-                  *-         4.1/a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            33.7         ..       23.0                  ..       31.0         15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            58.2         ..       63.0                  ,.       55.8        41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             5.4         ..        3.8                  ..        4.8         6.6
LOWEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.0         ,,       10.1                 ..        13.0        16.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .-         ..        ..                  ..          .,        151a
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..        84.9 7
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            12300.0/del3500.0    9110. /c            15320.0      2210.0 /     870.0 b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        9950.0 7U 2920.0/c 2430.07C              2830.0/d   5830.:0'      280.07C
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           350.07a-- 310.0          ..              1150.0      270.0        170.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         87.0       E8.0      112.0 /d            108.0       01o.0      124.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              63.0       64.0       68.o               60.0        71.0        92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..      25.0 /d      ..               1.O/e       32.0        29.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                  ..         3.9         2.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       48.0 /b   t0.o        88.0               76.0       103.0        94.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       1.0      13.0       15.0                11.0        36.0       45.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0                13.0       12.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMEN't
(X OF SECONDARY)                     28.0        3.0        9.6                7.0        33.0        72.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 41.0         *-      43.0                20.0        90.0        85.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ,,        2.6/e       .-                            1.3/C
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        ..       88.0 /f      ..                  ..        40.0/c,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 28.0 a        ..        ..                  ...
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           9.o /h    18.0      23.0                  ..       143.0       165.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           11.0       14.0      18.o                10.0        18.0        35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           681.0     957.0    1056.0                 95.0       806.0      1286.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.9 /h     0.5       0.6                 0.2         5.0         4.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-  19  -                                                  AE I
Page 2 of 4 pagee
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 aed 1975.
NCNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
*   Yugoslavia has been seIected as an objective country because it has a higher degree of development with estenaive state participation in industry
and comesrcs; also the dominant sector of omployment is developing frs * relatively low level of productivity.
ZAMBLA          1960    I   1963;    /b  African populetion;   /c  15-59 yaara and 60 and ove, respectively;    /d  1962;    /a  Registered only;
/f  Personnel in government services, including nidwives           /L  Urban only;    /h  Dats for Rhodesel  and Malawi included.
1970    /a  1965-69;    /b  Including assistant nurses;    /c  Persons seeking wrk:                /d  1964-66;    /e  Total, urban and rural;
/f Inaide only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;    La  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  -971;    /d  1969-71
average.
IVORY COAST   1970    /a  Due to ioigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;    /b  1965-70,    /c  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /d  Govermnnt only, including midwives;   I/  1964-66.
CHILE           1970    /a  Gren Santiago;   /b  Personnel in governmnt services only;    /c  Data refer to households;    /d  Inside only.
YUGOSLAVIA    1970    /a  Agriculture land held by social sector "Ronxbinste" and agriculture land held by private  mell-holders "10 hectarse  mamimun"
respectively;    /b  Including dentists;    /c  Including midwives, assistant midwives and assistant nurses.
R9, October 31, 1977
UI 'ITONS OP SOCIA INDICATOMS
Leed Area (than lon2)                                                                        Population per nursing seronm - Population divided by nomber of practicing
Totl - Total surface area  ceaprisinS laud era  nd inland waters.                             m     and faale graduate nurss, "tratned" or "cartified" nureas, and
Aeric. - Most recant estimate of agricultural ara -ea temporarily or p r_-                      elciliary personal with trainlag or emparteece
nantly for crops, pastures, mrket & kitchen gardenu  or to lh  fell.                      Population PEr hbp ital bad - Population divided by nuber of hospital beds
eilabl  in public and priwvt  general and *pecialised hoepital and
GND D r cepitc  (US$  - GN  par capit. estinates at current merket prices,                     rhabilitation canterf; *ecludes  usig hos and  .tablib-net  for
celculated by smm conversion mthod Ca World Bank Atlas (1973-75 biae);                       custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 ed 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (7 of requirmenta) - Computed from enrgy
squival.nt of net food supplies avilble In country per cepita par diy;
Popubtion and vital statistic,                                                                 aveilable supplies comprise deastic prodution, Imports les  esports, and
Popwlation (oid-year  til1ion)   As of July first,  if not wailabla, areage                    chages in stock; net supplies seclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-ar estimtes; 1460, 1970 and 1975 data,                                            in food processing end losaes in distribution; requirmets "ere estimated
by FAo ba..d an phyiologicl nueda for nornal activity ad health conaid-
Population da. ity   par square ko - Mid-year population per square kilometer                  acing enron_ntal tperture, body wights, *ge and .s.  distribution   of
(100 hebtorse) of total area,                                                                population, and allowing 107 for wate at houehold lsvel.
ptu.letion density - par sqare k. of seric  land - Coumpted as abov  for                     Par capita eas  of protein (ar_ pr dcv  - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                      net supply of fsod per da; nt aupply of food to defind as abov; requir-
ments for a11 countries established by USDS Economic Rerch Servics
Vital statistics                                                                               ptovide for a niniss allotaxce of 60 gras of truel protein per day, and
Crude birth rats per thousand. averase - Anual ltv  birtbh  per tbouan d of                    20 gras of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gre should be animal
mid-year Population; ten-year arithetic averages endiDg in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; thae atedard  amr lowrt them thoas of 75 gr_s of total protein
and five-year  verage ending in 1975 for met recent etimate,                                 and 23 gras of amimel protein *e an average for the wnrld, proposed by FAO
Crude deth rate par thousand, averae - Aessl d-tha per thousand of mid-yar                     in the Third World Food  urvey.
population; ten-year arithbatic *veregma ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein s*wDI fr    animal end  uls  - Protein supply of food
year average   ding in 1975 for most recent  etimat.                                         derived from animl  nd pulses in gr    per day.
Infant mLtrtality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of ifaunts undr one Year of age               Death rete (Ithou)  gs" 1-4 - Auesal deaths per thousand iD *Sg  rm-p 1-4
Per thouad live birtb                                                                        year, to children in this sp group: suggested as an indicator of
Life aspect-nc  at birth (yrsl - Averege mumber of years of life raining at                      lnutrition.
birth; suaully five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Lsg countries .                                                                            Education
Grote reproduction rats - Averog  number of live d.ught.rr  a women will bear                Adustd                        PrrolLIt ratio   priry school - Enrollment of a11  Sg.  as par-
in her norm-l reproductive period if she apriences present age-speciftc                      cntage of prioury  hao1-ag  popula:tion, includs children egad 6-11 years
fertility rates; usuly fie-year averages adins in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for diffrnt langth  of primary education; for countries with
for devloping countri.                                                                      unive"al education, enrollment my excwd 1007 since son pupils are below
Population xrowth rate (70 - total - Compo,sd annual growth rate  of *idyear                   or aboe the offiial school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlwted enrollesnt artio - secondar chool - Computed as sbove;  econdcry
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                        education require a t lst four years of approved primry io truction;
population; different definitions of urban smes may affect coWrability of                    proyide  general, vocatiomal or teacber training inetructions for pupils
data  wong comntries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; cor pondence courses are generally eecludsd.
Urban poplation (% of total) - Rtio of urban to tatal population; difforent                  Years of .choo      pvd        first andcnd levels) - Total y.ors of
definitions nf urban are-a say affect comparbility of date swong countrie.                   echooling; at secondary lel, vocetionel  esatruction my bh  partially or
Ama structure feerrent) - Children (0-14 yers), wockiseg-a    (15-64 yrs),                   Vocational enrolent t% of aecndere  - Vocational institutions include
and retired  (65 years  nd o-er) as percentages of  id-yar population.                       tchnicel, indstril or other progra_a which operate independeotly or as
Age dependencY ratio - Ratio of population under 15  nd 65 and over to those                   deparnmnts of secondary inatitutionn.
of ag.. 15  through  64b                                                                   Adult literacy rate (15 - Literat   dults (able to read and -ite) as pe-
Economic d.epndeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65  nd over to                    centage of torti adult population afad 15 pars and over.
the labor force in  ga group of 15-64 years.
Fmilv planninx - acc-Ptorm (calative  thoul - Cumulative number of acceptors                 Hou ing
of birth-control devicee under .u-pi... of national faily planning progra                  Persons per room (urban) - Average  ntber of persona per room in occupied
since t ..ption. -cnventional dweilings in urban aresa; dwellings exclude non-permonent
Fanily Planning - users Cl of morried women; - Pecrantagos of married .om*s of                  strcturco and unoccupied parts..
child-bearing  g  (15-44 years) vho u-s  birth-control devices to al  -rried                n..Pied durlln     without p_ead v  ater in   - Oro pid  on-ention1 dwellings
women in som  age grap.                                                                      In urban end rasra....s without iaid. or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Employment                                                                                    Accesse to electriiyC   fal  wllel- Coevetional dw.l1i.ge cith
Total Ilbor force (thousand) - Ecanoically active persona, including  rad                      el ectricity In liv in   quarter  as percnt of total dweIling. 1n urban and
forces and unesployad but anoluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                  rural areas.
in variow  countrie  s    nOt comparable.                                                  Rural dwelling.  connectad to electriity t%) - Computed as sbove for rural
Labo foce i  agiculture Cl) - Agricultural labor foros (in faning, forestry,               fellng   ol.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
U.mploved t% of labor forrcl - Unemployed are usually defined as persona who                  Concusetion
are able  nd willing to t.ke a job, at of a Job on a given dey, roind ant                  Radio receivars (er thou Pop) - All typ_ of recivr  f    radio broadcasts
of a job, end s-king work for a specified minisum   period not seceeding one                  to general public per thousand Of population; exclude  unlicoed receivers
week; my not be comparable boten  countriea du  to different dfinitions                       in countris and in yars whan   rgietration of radio sets was in affect;
of umployd and source of data, e.g., aploynmat office  tatintics, saple                       data for recent years my not bh  comparable since most co-ntrien aholihad
surveys, compulsory unemployment inaurance.                                                   licening.
P-assne cars (per thou Pop) - Pat-anger cars ronprise motor care seasting
Inc   e distribution - Percentage of private inca-  (both in csh and kind)                      less   an  ight Persons; wecudea ombulancs, herses  and militsry
recaiwed by richest 5%, richest 201, poorest 20%, nd poorest 402 of hous-                     vehicles.
hold..                                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr gar cap) - Annul coneumption of industrial, comercial,
public and private  lelstriit  in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of lnd onership - Percentages of land owned by we-lthiest ID                       bse d en produotion dt, without *ilnc  for los.se   in grids but alloa-
and poorst 101 of land owners.                                                                loig for Imports and weporta of electricity.
Ne'print ft}/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consm ption in kilogras
ea.lth and Nutrition                                                                            estimated from, domestIc production ple set imports of sawprict.
population per peysician - Population divided by nvber of practicing
physician. qualified from a medical school at univeraity levl.



-20-                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ MCln.    _                           1965 -70           1970 -76
GNP at Market Prices          2,335         100.0                          2.6                2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       630          27.0                          8.4               -5.7.
Gross National Saving           402          17.2                          9.4                0.3
Current Account Balance        -228           9.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           963          41.2                          2.3                2.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,008          43.2                         9.1                -7.1-
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                   Labor Force/                    V. A. Per Worker
US_XLMn.                         Mln.        %                    U    
Agriculture                     297        10.0                0.687       52.0                    432        19.3
Industry                      1,704        57.6                0.198       15.0                  8,606       384.2
Services                        958        32.4                0.337       25.5                  2,843       126.9
Unallocated                      .          .                  0.099        7.5                 _
Total/Average          2,959      100.0                1,321      100.0                  2,240       100.0
GOVERNNENT FINANCE                                           2/
General Government;-                            Central Government
(                  jLn.M  % of GDP            (Kyacha _!n.)            of GD
1977       1977         1LW1- 76
Current Receipts                                                                       499          26            27
Current Expenditure         )                                                          599          32            27
Current Surplus             )                                                         -100           6             0
Capital Expenditures        )                                                          131           7            10
External Assistance (net)  )                                                            30           2             2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1965     1970      1972     1974      1975     1976      1977
(Mi:Llion K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  107.6    355.6    341,0    440.7    492.9    623.5    697.8
Bank credit to Public Sector          -88.7   -163.8    147.2       78.1    517.8    571.1    790.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/       42.3    136.9    165.0    335.8    392.9    394.1    470.4
(E'ercentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       15.1     27.8      25.5     23.1      31.6     34.8      36.8
General Price Index (1970 = 100)        74.2    100.0    111.7    128.8    141.7    168.2    201.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      8.2      2.6       5.4      8.4      10.0     18.7      20.0
Bank credit to Public Sector              .        .     691.4    -61.9    306.9       79.7      38.4
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/          .      21.9     -9.7      92.1      17.0      0.3      19.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocate" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government".
31 Includes parastatal organizations.
not available
not applicable
April 17, 1978
EACP I



- 21-                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FL0WS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-76)
1976     1977                                                           US $ Mln    %
(Millions USS)
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,141      963                          Copper                             1,019.6  93.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           980    1,007                          Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                    55.3   5.0
Resource Gap (deficit   -)    161        -44                          All other commodities                 22.1   2.0
Total                           1,097.0 100.0
Factor Payments (net)         -111      -100
Net Transfers                  -108      -84
Balance on Current Account    -58       -228
Direct Foreign Investment       *.       ..                         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing 'Public)
Disbursements               270       244                                                                    US $ Mln
Amortization                  45      120
Subtotal                    225       124                          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1,307.8
Capital Grants                   .                                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Other Capital (net)            145       200                          Total outstanding & Disbursed             1,307.8
Other items n.e.i             -368      -169
Increase in Reserves (+)       -56       -74                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO (Z) 1/
1977
Gross Reserves (end year)       100       74
Net Reserves   (end year)    -145       -227                          Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              19.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                ..
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      Total outstanding & Disbursed              19.4
Before February 1973           March 1978
US$1.00 = Kwacha 0.714       SDR1 = K1.0243
K1.00 = US$1.40              Kl = SDRO.9763             IBRD/IDA LENDING, (FEBRUARY 28, 1978) (Million US$)
February 1973 to July 1976    Annual  Averages                                                         IBRD        IDA
US$1.00 = Kwacha 0.643       1976 :K1 - US$1i4019
(1.00 = US$1.554          1977 :K1 = US$1,2675             Outstanding & Disbursed               291.3
Undisbursed                           139.2
J-uly 1976 to March 1978                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          430.5
SDR1 = KO.922
K(1 = SDR1.085
1/ Ratio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services in 1976.
not available
April 17, 1978                                        not applicable
EACPI



- 22 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at February 28, 1978)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Loan
No.    Year      Borrower             Flurpose            Bank          Undisbursed
12 loans fully disbursed                               185.2
592    1969      Zambia               Education           17.4              1.4
645    1969      Zambia               Education            5.3              0.7
701-2  1974      Kariba North         Power Station      42.1               4.4
Bank Company
882    1973      Zambia               Integrated Fam-   11.5                7.2
ily Farming
900    1973      Zambia               Education           33.0             16.9
919    1973      Zambia Electricity  Hydroelectric    115.0                22.7
Supply Corp.         Power
1057   1974      Zambia               Urban Develop-    20.0               11.2
ment
1131   1975      Posts & Tele.        Telecommunica-    32.0               29.7
Corps.               tions
1210   1976     Development Bank    D,evelopment         15.0              15.0
of Zambia            Finance Co.
1356   1977      Zambia               Education          13.3              13.2
1424   1977     Zambia                Industrial         16.8              16.8
Forestry
Total                                   506.6            139.2
of which has been repaid              71.5
Total now outstanding                  435.1
Amounts sold                    38.6
of which has been repaid    34.0       4.6
Total now held by Bank 1/
of which is undisbursed              430.5
139.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at February 28, 1978)
Investment                                                         US$ million
No.     Year                       Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
216 ZA      1972  Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    0.85    0.23          1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA      1973  Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    1.20         -        1.20
Co. Ltd.            and tannery
307 ZA      1975  Century Packages   Packaging materials   0.78    0.21         0.99
Ltd.
324 ZA      1976  Development Bank   Development Finance    -          0.54     0.54
of Zambia           Co.
394 ZA      1978  Century Packages   Packaging materials   0.10          -      0.10
Ltd.
Total gross commitments                          2.93    0.98       3.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                           1.78      -       1.78
Total now held by IFC                            1.15    0.98       2.13
Total undisbursed                                0.10      -        0.10



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 592-ZA      First Education Project:  US$17.4 million loan of
April 11, 1969; Effective Date: July 15, 1969;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Due to prolonged negotiations with architectural consultants, bud-
getary constraints in both 1972 and 1977 resulting from low copper prices,
poor management in the early stages of project implementation, and more
recently shortages of construction materials and financial difficulties of
several major contractors, the project is about four and a half years behind
schedule. The expected Closing Date is now March 31, 1979. Latest estimates
indicate an increase in cost of about 17 percent which is manageable.
Educational objectives in quantitative terms are being met, while qualitative
changes of content of education have not yet been achieved. Some problems
with respect to defects in materials used in construction of project secondary
schools have recently emerged and are being closely monitored.
Loan No. 645-ZA      Second Education Project:  US$5.3 million loan of
November 20, 1969; Effective Date: May 5, 1970;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978
The project as originally approved has been completed satisfac-
torily with the exception of finalization of accounting. Due to contributions
of instructional equipment by bilateral donor agencies, savings in the loan
proceeds of about US$1.0 million were realized. As a result, the Government
requested an amendment, which has been approved by the Bank, to the Loan
Agreement for additional work at the University to utilize these savings and
also enable the postponement of the Closing Date by two years to March 31,
1978. However, delays in the procurement of furniture and equipment for the
project items included in the amendment and in the transfer of farm lands to
the University are necessitating a further extension, which is presently under
consideration, of the Closing Date to March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 701-ZA      Kariba North Project:  US$82.1 million loan of July 29,
1970, as amended on August 16, 1974; Effective Date:
December 16, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The fourth and last 150-MW generating set was commissioned on
May 5, 1977. Construction is virtually completed and the station is oper-
ating satisfactorily. The Central African Power Corporation is now fully
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
responsible for operation of the power station. A project completion report
is being prepared.
Loan No. 882-ZA      Integrated Family Farming Project:  US$11.5 million loan
of February 28, 1973; Effective Date: July 26, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is experiencing difficulties. Management at headquar-
ters and scheme level is unsatisfactory. Slower than expected recruitment
of project farmers, together with inflation, have precipitated sharp in-
creases in settlement cost per farmer. These developments are threatening
the economic viability of the project. However, because of satisfactory
yields (tobacco and maize) and government subsidies, financial returns to
farmers are good. In addition to visiting consultants, the Tobacco Manage-
ment Board of Zambia (TBZ) has recently selected a new Project Manager to
replace the one who resigned in November 1976. However, two expatriate
staff, the Extension/Training Officer and the Financial Controller, may soon
leave Zambia if TBZ's efforts to gain government approval to increase their
remuneration are not successful. It is hoped that ODM would agree to top
up their salaries. The Bank is following this matter closely.
Loan No. 900-ZA      Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million loan of June 6,
1973; Effective Date: August 9, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Difficulties experienced in obtaining contractors to construct numerous
small facilities located in remote areas have been overcome but at higher
than anticipated costs and some delay. The Borrower has decided to split
the University into three separate campuses which may result in modifica-
tion to the Loan Agreement. The project is expected to be completed by
the original September 30, 1979 Closing Date.
Loan No. 919-ZA      Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 million
loan of July 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the main dam is ahead of schedule. Current expec-
tations are that the project will be completed on schedule and within the
appraisal cost estimate. However, there appeared to be a problem when the
reservoir filling reached 1,013 m level in September 1976 after a warm spring
had surfaced some 1,200 m downstream from the dam. Since then the consultant
and the Board of Experts have been examining the performance of the dam site
and surrounding area under the effect of the rising water pressure. There
are indications that the foundation rock may be badly faulted and cracked.
Various possible solutions are being investigated and the Board of Experts
is meeting frequently to review progress. Over the past two years, the Zambia
Electricity Supply Corporation has made considerable progress in improving its



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
financial management but its financial performance has not been satisfactory.
However, performance is expected to improve considerably with the implemen-
tation of a new financial framework for the sector that has been substan-
tially agreed to by all parties, including the Central African Power Corpo-
ration, and which is to be effective retroactively from July 1, 1977.
Loan No. 1057-ZA    Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 million loan of December 6, 1974; Effectiveness
Date: April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project is slower than anticipated because
of delays in land acquisition and difficulties in providing construction
materials and spare parts due to Zambia's foreign exchange shortage. Up-
grading of the first major squatter settlement in Chawama has been completed,
and construction and improvement of houses is progressing satisfactorily.
Provision of services in various new sites is in full swing and construction
of houses in these sites should start by the middle of 1978. At present,
arrears in building materials loans are very high but Government is taking
appropriate measures to reduce these to a realistic level.
Loan No. 1131-ZA    Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million loan of
June 24, 1975; Effective Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project procurement and execution are approximately one year behind
schedule but recently have been proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
switching equipment and microwave and radio systems have been awarded.
Implementation, however, may slowdown considerably as a result of government
budgetary constraints. An increase in telecommunications tariffs has been
approved by Government, and arrears and delays in billing have been reduced.
Implementation of the financial/management consultants report is proceeding
satisfactorily. Implementation of the initial capitalization of the recently
formed Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, however, still remains to be
completed.
Loan No. 1210-ZA    Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million loan of
February 18, 1976; Effective Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
The loan has been committed to the extent of about US$2.4 million
equivalent for a number or projects in various industries such as chemicals,
textiles, packaging, agriculture and food processing. The low level of com-
mitments is mainly due to a slower pace of operations than anticipated at
appraisal, due to the serious economic recession in the country.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1356-ZA    Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million loan of
January 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
While the project has made an excellent start, progress has slowed
recently because of government budgetary constraints. However, implementation
of two major components - the Education Services Center and the Evelyn Hone
College - is ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1424-ZA    Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effective Date: November 15. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is underway. Plantation targets are being
met and no serious difficulties have been encountered.
IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION IN ZAMBIA
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216 ZA and 250 ZA - Shoes and Tannery
The company continues to perform well.
Century Packages Ltd. - 307 ZA and 394 ZA - Packaging Materials
Project construction is virtually completed. The revised project
cost is estimated at K 2.2 million compared to K 1.7 million estimated in
the 1975 Board Report. Disbursement of IFC overrun financing (US$100,000)
is expected to be completed by June 1978.
Development Bank of Zambia - 324 ZA - Development Finance Company
The IFC investment, approved in February 1976, was disbursed in
June 1976.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Twelve months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Zambia with the assistance
of the Bank and the Association
(c) Initial discussions with the Bank: September 1975
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project:  September 1976
(e) Appraisal mission: March 1977
(f) Follow-up appraisal mission: June 1977
(g) Negotiations: January 9 to 13, 1978
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1, 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower will take actions necessary to ensure that vehicle
axle-loads, dimensions and weights do not exceed legal limits
(para. 28);
(b) The Borrower will employ, by September 30, 1978, the following
technical experts: (i) three road maintenance engineers, one
transport economist and two training experts in the Roads
Department; (ii) twenty mechanical superintendents' and two
training experts in the Mechanical Services Branch (MSB); and
(iii) one rural road maintenance engineer in the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing (para. 39(d));
(c) The Borrower will take all reasonable action required to make
available adequate living accommodations for the experts
referred to in (b) above (para. 39(d));
(d) The Borrower will provide the recurrent funds required for
road maintenance and for MSB's operations, and the Borrower
and the Bank Group will review annually the adequacy of the
funds allocated by the Borrower to the Roads Department
and MSB (para. 41);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Borrower will employ in the Roads Department, by September 30,
1978, an additional three senior executive engineers and one chief
matp-ials officer (para. 43);
(f) The Borrower will prepare, by September 30, 1978, a program
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association for the career
development of local staff in the Roads Department (para. 43);
(g) The Borrower will prepare training programs that are satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association and will train the road maintenance
staff of the Rural Councils in the Roads Department's training
school (para. 43);
(h) The Borrower will (i) prepare, by December 31, 1978, a plan of
action (including specific targets), satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association, to improve MSB's efficiency; such plan to include,
inter alia, limiting MSB's services to non-military vehicles,
equipment and plant; and (ii) carry out such plan within nine months
from the date of its preparation (para. 44);
(i) Employment of consultants to prepare the plan of action referred
to in (h) above will be a condition for effectiveness (para. 44);
(j) The detailed engineering for the Mansa-Kawambwa-Nchelenge road
(or another road or roads of equally high priority) will be carried
out only if the Borrower and the Bank Group consider the proposed
upgrading of the road to be justified (para. 45);
(k) Contracts for road maintenance and workshop equipment, spare
parts, tools and training aids will not be entered into until
the requisite technical experts referred to in (b) above for
the Roads Department and MSB have been employed (para. 46); and
(1) US$180,000 will be provided for retroactive financing of expenditures
expected to be incurred after January 1, 1978 on consultant services
to assist in reorganizing MSB, preparing bidding.documents and
evaluating bids (para. 47).






I BRD 12934
2'2'                              2*'                               26'                                2r                                                                     3
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                               '/ 7 ~                s      ~      \Ns                                           
Highway Network
E.or roadsf:           -'-T.---Mbrlrrad
I,,ter,atio,,l mom  rods  -::7-  RiceA's
___ _Distrit roads          *   Airf Ields
----R,rol dislricl.cads     0  District headquarters
Co-strutiol                  District boandon.sb pl0 ..0
......Destailed e,,gI,,eerig                -,IPrvnca .budarie
Ieraialbc-ado,ies                                                                                                      S    A
Third HigLiwy_fqj:A
0           52           100         ISOCHt  
A   N   0  '0   L A  )                                                                   p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 5  10 IES10  0
<0  R  E7        H    Ias~ C                            alr                    I/ 0inaF~
ZAIRE       7CPPEBEA                                                                      Muwk a
Kr2                                       -                                                              osWloMposPtIMtK5A
R T H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
UKJLJf ~~~~~~~~~~~l)  -~~~~~~~  "'b        /                               /     U~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
01~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
% \   *  Kooma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
'JKaoal 
r- DOLA  R LJ R A L Maeaifl          E N j E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n' iiirvrirovi 'honic c
L~~~~~~~JANSH                                                        .,g..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enirecriiv
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~my... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~      *6rvCrP  jcr\nnci-
To Daliseuro                  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~3~~C  OFp OS -2frcrsl    4  '~c~y  ~
K A 5 E M P A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -   oo
ly~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~[NOACi'p~{OOi                                 I
10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



