                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                      CREDIT NUMBER 798 ZA




Development Credit Agreement
            (Third Highway Project)



                    between


             REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             Dated June 27, 1978
                                               CREDIT NUMBER     798 ZA


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the foreign
exchange cost of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to eleven million two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($11,250,000)      (hereinafter
called the Loan); and

     (C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement are made;

      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of- the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

    NOW THEREFORE    the   parties hereto hereby    agree as   follows:


                               ARTICLE I

                    General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
                                -2-


    Section 1.02.    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


     (a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement and the schedule to the
Loan Agreement;

     (b) "Minister" means the Minister of the Borrower respon-
sible for finance, or, if the President of the Borrower assumes
such functions, the President;

     (c) "Local Authority" means, with respect to the Borrower,
a city council, a municipal council, a rural council, or any
other governmental authority of the Borrower (other than its
central government) which has power to raise revenues by taxation
and to charge such revenues or any of its  assets as security for
external debt;

     (d) "Primary and Secondary Road Network" means the road
system of the Borrower administered by the Roads Department
of the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower;

     (e) "Tertiary Road Network" means the road system of the
Borrower administered by the Rural Councils under the Ministry
of Local Government and Housing of the Borrower;

        (f)  "Routine Maintenance" means the road maintenance acti-
vities of the Borrower which are carried out on a yearly basis
including, inter alia, the following: cleaning and repair of
lateral     areas,   surface and deep drains, ditches,    culverts,
bridges, guard rails, parapets and road signs; spot repairing
and/or grading of earth and gravel roads and shoulders; and
patching of paved roads; and

     (g)  the symbol "K" and the term "kwacha"      mean   the unit
of the currency of the Borrower.
                              -3-


                            ARTICLE II

                            The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($11,250,000).

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Bank
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associ-
ation shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.

      Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.   The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable   semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1988, and ending May 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
substantially in accordance with an implementation schedule agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.

      (b)  For the carrying out of Part A (2) (vi) of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (i)   by December 31, 1978, prepare a plan of
action satisfactory to the Association, such plan to include,
inter alia: (1) specific targets for the improvement of the effi-
ciency of the Mechanical Services Branch of the Borrower and (2)
maintaining such Branch for providing services related exclusively
to non-military vehicles, equipment and plant of the Borrower;
and (ii)  carry out such plan within nine months from the date of
its  preparation.

     (c) For the carrying out of the training component included
in Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare training
programs satisfactory to the Association.

     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ such experienced
and competent staff as shall be required to carry out the Project
efficiently.

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1978, employ in the Roads
Department of the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower the
following additional staff with appropriate qualifications and
experience for filling existing vacancies:

          (i)   three senior executive engineers; and

         (ii)   one chief materials officer.
                                  -5-


     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association to: (i)
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part A (2) (vi) of
the Project; (ii) assist the Borrower in the preparation of the
bidding documents and the evaluation of bids for the procurement
of goods included in Part A (2) (i) and (ii) of the Project; and
(iii) carry out the studies included in Part D of the Project.


     (b) For the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, by September 30, 1978, the following
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:

            (i)   in the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public
                  Works of the Borrower, three road maintenance
                  engineers, one transport economist and two training
                  experts;

          (ii)    in the Mechanical Services Branch of the Borrower,
                  twenty mechanical superintendents (or such other
                  number as shall be agreed by the Association) and
                  two training experts; and

        (iii)     in the Ministry of Local Government and Housing of
                  the Borrower, one rural road maintenance engineer.


     (c)  The Borrower shall take all reasonable action as shall
be required for making available adequate living accommodation to
the experts referred to in paragraph (b) above.


     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


     (b)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
                              -6-


     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.

      (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities, workshops and construction sites included
in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii)  shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds
and the operation and administration of the road system of the
Borrower.

      (c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly progress
reports on the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) furnish
to the Association such reports promptly after their comple-
tion.

     (d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it,   the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association  of  their respective  obligations under
this Agreement and   the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the
Credit.

     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make available or cause
to be made available as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the
Project.
                               -7-


                            ARTICLE IV


                          Other Covenants


      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures,   in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.

     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall collect and record in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures
such technical, economic and financial information as shall be
reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance, improve-
ments and extensions of its road system.

     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall process in an expeditious
manner all  documentation, including import licenses and authori-
zations to remit foreign exchange, as may be required to enable
the timely carrying out of the Project.


     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all roads of
the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; (ii) cause all road maintenance equipment
and related facilities in the workshops of the Borrower to be
adequately maintained and cause all   necessary repairs thereof to
be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
and (iii) without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, promptly provide
the funds required for the foregoing, such funds estimated to be
in the fiscal years 1979, 1980, 1981 and 1982: (1) the equivalent
of $12,000,000, $19,500,000, $21,000,000 and $18,500,000, respec-
tively, for the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works
of the Borrower; and (2) the equivalent of $1,700,000, $2,700,000,
$3,800,000 and $4,000,000, respectively, for the Mechanical
Services Branch of the Borrower; the Borrower and the Association
shall review annually the adequacy of the maintenance funds
allocated by the Borrower to the Roads Department of its Ministry
of Public Works and its  Mechanical Services Branch for the fiscal
year subsequent to such review.
                               -8-


    Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that the dimensions, axle-loads
and weight limits of the vehicles using the roads of the Borrower
shall not exceed the limits prescribed by the laws and regulations
of the Borrower.


     Section 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to carry out the
training of the road maintenance staff of the Rural Councils
under its Ministry of Local Government and Housing in the train-
ing school of the Roads Department of its Ministry of Public
Works.


     Section 4.07. By    September 30, 1978, the Borrower shall
(i) prepare a program,   satisfactory to the Association, for the
career development of    local staff in the Roads Department of
its Ministry of Public    Works; and (ii) carry out such program
thereafter.

                              ARTICLE V

                   Effective Date; Termination


     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

     (a) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, other than the additional condition set forth in
Section 5.01 thereof, have been fulfilled; and


     (b)  the consultants referred to in   Section 3.03 (a)   (i) of
this Agreement have been employed.


     Section 5.02. The date September 28, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


     Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on
                                 -9-


which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


                           ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrouer;
                           Addresses


     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.


     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


    For the Borrower:

         Ministry of Finance
         P.O. Box R.W. 62
         Ridgeway,
         Lusaka, Zambia

         Cable address:                      Telex:

              FINANCE                              ZA 42221
              Ridgeway
              Lusaka

    For the Association:

         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America

         Cable address:                     Telex:

              INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)
                               -   10   -




     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris, French
Republic, as of the day and year first above written.


                   REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA



                   By /s/    J.M. Mwanakatwe
                                           Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                    By /s/   W.A. Wapenhans
                                              Regional Vice President
                                                       Eastern Africa
                                 -   11    -




                                SCHEDULE 1

                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
                      the Credit and of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:

                                Amount of the Credit
                                    and of the
                                   Loan Allocated             % of
                                   (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Road maintenance and                12,100,000
      workshop equipment,
      tools, training aids
      and spare parts
      (Part A (2) of the
       Project)

      (a)   Directly im-                                 100% of foreign
            ported                                       expenditures

      (b)   Imported and                                 70%
            procured lo-
            cally

(2)   Equipment, materials                     500,000   50%
      and other items for
      the pilot rural road
      maintenance program
      (Part B of the Pinject)

(3)   Consultants' and                    5,000,000      80%
      Experts' services

(4)   Unallocated                         4,900,000


                     TOTAL            22,500,000
                              -   12   -



2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases,
the Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank and the Association.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $180,000 may
be made in respect of Category 3 on account of payments made for
expenditures for consultants' services before that date but after
January 1, 1978.

5.   Except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan
Account until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, except under commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.

6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures,  and (ii)  if  such reallocation cannot fully
                             -   13   -



meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all  expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.

7.    If the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.
                                  -14-




                               SCHEDULE 2

                       Description of the Project


     The Project consists of:

Part A:     Road Maintenance Program

     (1)    Carrying out, with respect to the Primary and Secondary
            Road Network, of the following:

            (i)   Routine Maintenance;

           (ii)   Resealing of about 2,000 kilometers of bitumen-
                  surf aced roads, the list of roads included in the
                  program to be determined by agreement between the
                  Borrower, the Bank and the Association; and

          (iii)   Regravelling of about 750 kilometers of gravel
                  roads, the list of roads included in the program to
                  be determined by agreement between the Borrower,
                  the Bank and the Association.

     (2)    Strengthening of the road maintenance organization and
            operations of the Borrower, regarding the Primary and
            Secondary Road Network, including inter alia:

            (i)   Acquisition and utilization of about 382 units of
                  equipment for road maintenance and about 9 mobile
                  workshops, and spare parts related thereto;

           (ii)   Acquisition and utilization of workshop equipment
                  and tools for the workshop facilities of the
                  Borrower;

          (iii)   Rehabilitation and utilization of about 61 units
                  of equipment for road maintenance and acquisition
                  of spare parts therefor;

           (iv)   Acquisition and utilization of spare parts for
                  existing road maintenance equipment;

            (v)   Acquisition and utilization of training aids for
                  the workshop facilities    of the Borrower; and
                                -   15 -


          (vi)   Improvement of the efficiency of the Borrower's
                 organization responsible for vehicle and plant
                 procurement, management and maintenance operations.

Part B:    Pilot Rural Road Maintenance Program

     Carrying out of a pilot maintenance program for rural roads,
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, for enabling the
Borrower to evaluate and improve the efficiency of its maintenance
organization and operations regarding the Tertiary Road Network.

Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training

     Te%chnical assistance to improve the Borrower's road mainten-
ance planning and oprrations, and to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out and the evaluation of the Project, and in the train-
ing of its staff participating in the carrying out of the Project.

Part D:   Studies

1.    Carrying out of a feasibility study regarding the upgrading
to bituminous standard of the existing road between the towns of
Mansa - Kawambwa and Nchelenge, or such other road or roads as may
be agreed between the Borrower, the Bank and the Association, and,
if such upgrading is considered justified by the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, the carrying out of a detailed engineer-
ing study for the pertinent project; and

2.   Carrying out of a study for the execution of Part A (2)   (vi)
of the Project.




     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
                                    16   -




                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement


A.   International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
                                                                in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis
                                                                of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of
                                                               the
Guidelines.

2.    For goods to be procured in accordance with paragraph 1
above, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Bank or
                                                                the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first  tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form a-ad detail and containing such information as
the Bank or the Association shall reasonably request; the Bank
or the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured in
accordance with paragraph 1 above.

3.     Suppliers of equipment to be procured in accordance with
paragraph 1 above shall be required to provide in Zambia services
for the training of mechanics and plant operators and to maintain
in Zambia an adequate service organization, including a reasonable
inventory of spare parts.

4.    For bidding purposes, contracts for goods to be procured in
accordance with paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in such manner
as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Bank and the Associa-
tion prior to issuing the invitation to bid.

B.   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Contracts for the purchase under Part A (2) of the Project of
spare parts for rehabilitating and maintaining existing road
maintenance equipment and of training aids shall be procured after
                              -   17   -



calling competitive quotations from established suppliers within
Zambia and abroad, in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank and the Association.

2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials and other
items for the pilot rural road maintenance program under Part B of
the Project shall be procured in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.

C.   General Procedures

     Contracts for the purchase of goods under Part A (2) of the
Project will be entered into only after the Borrower has employed
the experts referred to in paragraph (b) (i)  and (ii) of Section
3.03 of this Agreement.

D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods

1.     For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (point of entry to Zambia) price for
imported goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.

E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
     and the Association

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

     With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph 1
of Part A of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:

     (a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank or the Association, for comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank or the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
                             -   18   -



the bidding documents shall require the concurrence of the Bank or
the Association before it is issued to the prospective bidders.

     (b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank or the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank or
the Association, in sufficient time for review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section
3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the
said consultants and such other information as the Bank or the
Association shall reasonably request. The Bank or the Association
shall, if they determine that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.

     (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the concurrence of the Bank or the Association, mate-
rially differ from those on which bids were asked.

     (d)  Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank or the Association promptly after its    execution and
prior to the delivery to the Bank or the Association, as the case
may be, of the first   application for withdrawal of funds from,
respectively, the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of
such contract.

3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank or
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank or the Association, as the case may be,
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from, respec-
tively, the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank or the Association shall
reasonably request. The Bank or the Association shall, if they
determine that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
