CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1566 ZA
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1566 ZA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in (B) below by making the Loan as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Devel-
opment Association (hereinafter called the Association) to pro-
vide additional assistance towards the financing of the foreign
exchange cost of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement) the Association is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to eleven million two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($11,250,000); and
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept ell
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($11,250,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn irom
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower undertakes towards the Bank the
same obligations it is undertaking towards the Association pur-
suant to Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement,
with the same force and effect as if such provisions were fully
set forth herein; provided, however, that all references to
the Association and the Credit in such Articles shall be deemed
to be references to the Bank and the Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. All action taken by, and any notice given
to, the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
shall, unless the context shall require otherwise, be deemed to be
taken or given also by or to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its Local Authorities, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿-4-
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any Local Authority and of any
entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of, the Borrower or any such Local Authority, including
gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, other than the condition set forth
in Section 5.01 (a) thereof, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date September 28, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Eorrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway,
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANCE                           ZA 42221
Ridgeway
Lusaka
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, IT.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris,
French Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /s/ J.M. Mwanakatwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 6 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1983
through   May 1, 1998                        375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-7-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.15%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                             6.75%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


