CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1515 CM
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 3, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1515 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MINTRANS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
transport;
(b) "MINEH" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for equipment and housing; and
(c) "DH" means the Department of Highways of MINEH, or any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿- 2 -
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The civil works to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall be carried out under a contract procured
in accordance with procedures and specifying terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Two conformed copies of any contract to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982, or
such later date as the Dank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MINEH's DH and MINTRANS, respectively, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist DH in the supervision of
the civil works under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist MINTRANS in the carrying out of Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ an economist/statis-
tician whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the accuisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of Lhe purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to make available as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
road under Part A of the Project shall be reconstructed in accor-
dance with the design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall select the beneficiaries of
the fellowships under Part B of the Project and establish their
training programs in consultation with the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for


﻿any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivisior, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its classified highway
network and its road maintenance equipment to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate
technical and economic practices, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this purpose.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall collect and record in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures
(including regular and systematic traffic counts) such technical,
economical and financial information as shall be required for the
proper monitoring and planning of maintenance, improvements and
extensions of its classified highway network.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all reasonable mea-
sures, including the establishment and enforcement of appropriate
limitations on size and weight of vehicles, necessary to ensure
that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its classi-
fied highway network shall not exceed limits consistent with the
design standards of the roads in such network.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 2, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaounde
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINEP                               8268 KN
Yaoundf
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AJD DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under            12,500,000      65% (represent-
Part A of the                                ing the esti-
Project                                     mated foreign
expenditure
component)
(2) Engineering                   1,100,000      100% of foreign
consultants'                                 expenditures
services
(3) Technical                       300,000      100% of foreign
assistance and                               expenditures
fellowships under
Part B of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                   2,600,000
TOTAL        16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".


﻿-9-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
November 1, 1977.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Reconstruction of the Garoua - Figuil road (about 95
km).
Part B:   Strengthening of MINTRANS services in charge of trans-
port planning and coordination, including fellowships
for complementary training of MINTRANS personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1983
through February 15, 1998                     550,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figure in this column represents dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                        4.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        5.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Road Reconstruction
Pavement Width
Garoua - Pitoa section                     7 m
Pitoa - Figuil section                     6 m
Shoulder Width
Rural areas                                1.5 m
Built-up areas                             2.5 m
Bridge Width
New bridges                            two 3.5 m lanes
Existing bridges*                      one 3 m lane
Pavement Design
Axle load                                 13 t
*    On Mayo Oulo, Mayo Louti and Mayo Sarawel.


