Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20600
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(39890; P2460; P2461)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
June 21, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective end March 2000)
Currency Unit = Kuna
8.081 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = 0.124
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA           Bank Rehabilitation Agency
EFSAL         Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
HEP           Croatian Electrical Power Enterprise
HPT           Croatian Post and Telecom
INA           Oil and Gas Conglomerate
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOE           Ministry of Economy
ORESE         Office for the Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises
PE            Public Enterprise
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SOE           Socially Owned Enterprise
TAL1/2        First/Second Technical Assistance Project
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:    Paul J. Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ilene Photos



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      10
9. Partner Comments                                                                     10
10. Additional Information                                                              10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   19
Annex 8. Review of the Technical Assistance Project from the Borrower's Perspective     20
Annex 9. Aide-memoire of ICR mission                                                    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official dutics. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P040830                                      Project Name: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Team Leader: Ilene Photos                                 TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          L/C/TF Number: 39890; P2460; P2461
Country/Department: CROATIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/17/94                                Effective: 04/30/96           07/22/96
Appraisal:  03/10/95                                 MTR: 02/15/97              06/10/97
Approval:  03/26/96                                Closing: 06/30/98            04/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF CROATIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Amtraud Hartmann                          Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:      Paul J. Siegelbaum                        Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:   Ilene Photos                             Ilene Photos
ICR Primary Author:  Ilene Photos
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to assist the Government to implement its enterprise and
financial sector reform program supported by the Bank-financed Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL). To this end, the loan financed advisory services, studies and some training to:



(i)    assist the Government to complete the privatization of former socially-owned
enterprises;
(ii)   help in the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises; and
(iii)  support the rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system.
The key indicator of development impact was the completion of studies contracted in the context of policy
conditionality supported by the EFSAL.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component                                                   Cost              Rating
Privatization of former socially-owned enterprises      $1,200,000.00          S
Rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system  $2,000,000.00          S
Restructuring and privatization of public enterprises   $3,000,000.00          S
3.4 Revised Components:
The main project components were not revised, but flexibility was built into the project during
preparation so that funds could be reallocated should more pressing technical assistance needs arise or
identified components were not producing the desired results. No training had been included in the original
project design. At the Government's request, the loan was amended to allow financing of some training.
3.S Quality at Entry:
A QAE review was not conducted at the time of project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the Technical Assistance Project's objective is judged to be satisfactory. Yet, it
should be clearly understood that the Technical Asistance loan (TALI) was designed as an ancillary
project, intended to facilitate the implementation of the EFSAL, and therefore should be viewed in that
context. Moreover, although TALI is completed, the ongoing dialogue with the Government continues
under the EFSAL. To some extent, it should be recognized that delays in implementation of policy reforns
of the EFSAL, particularly in the energy sector, have diminished the impact of some of the preparatory
activities financed under the TALI.
Following Croatia's independence, the task of creating a new country and fostering its transition
proved to be overwhelming, both for implementing difficult and far-ranging reforms and for utilizing
technical assistance to reach the country's reform objectives, facts which support the decision during
project preparation to keep the project flexible. The project has successfully assisted the Government in
promoting its reform agenda under the EFSAL by financing studies and advisory services for (i) the
preparation of enterprise restructuring plans, (ii) preparation of a utilities regulatory framework, (iii)
improving financial monitoring and analysis of larger enterprises, (iv) designing the voucher privatization
program of former socially-owned enterprises and (v) supporting the privatization of the four largest state
banks.
Some reforms which had been expected to be implemented over the period 1998-99 were
unfortunately postponed by the Government during the critical pre-election period. Nevertheless, during the
months that preceded the change of Government, substantial progress was made in key areas of the EFSAL
- 2 -



second tranche conditionality, mainly in the privatization of the large state banks and the
telecommunications company. Yet progress is still needed, primarily in the restructuring, privatization and
regulatory framework of public utilities in the energy sector. Elections brought about a major change in the
political scene but the radically different Government created at the beginning of 2000 remains generally
committed to these reforms. Policy dialogue on the overall assistance program of the Bank continues, and,
in this context, specific discussions with the new Govemment on EFSAL second tranche conditions are
underway. Hence, while all activities under TALl have been completed, implementation and preparation of
the next phase of reforms under the EFSAL continue, supported by the ongoing second Technical
Assistance Project (TAL2).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Restructuring and Privatization of Public Enterprises
The four large public enterprises (PEs), HEP (electricity), NA (oil and gas), HPT (now split into
HT-telecoms and HP-posts) and the HZ (railways) represent the bulk of remaining state-owned enterprises
in Croatia outside the banking sector. The Government's program for public enterprises, as supported by
the component of the EFSAL, aimed mainly to improve efficiency, restructure and partially privatize public
enterprises. A key instrument in striving for these objectives was the strengthening of the Office for
Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises (ORESE), established to monitor the
performance of large public enterprises, in particular to review and to analyze their financial performance
and assist in their restructuring. As implementing agency, ORESE was instrumental in the genesis of many
reforms. The following describes the activities supported by the Technical Assistance Project.
A.    INA Studies. Three studies that were started prior to loan effectiveness were supported by the
TAL through a retroactive financing arrangement. Two of the studies, on INA's refining and distribution
business and on its wholesale and marketing business, provided input for the blueprint of a
comprehensive restructuring and privatization plan of the INA group, on the basis of which a major
financial and organizational restructuring took place (hiving off all non-core assets, its petrochemical
business and the Kutina fertilizer plant) over 1997-98. The next step would be to begin privatization of
INA with strategic investors by offering a minority stake in the INA Group and/or participation in selected
businesses. On the basis of satisfactory results of a third important study, the Kutina Fertilizer Plant has
begun implementing an operational restructuring of its own.
B.    Utilities Regulation and Institutional Framework. A study was undertaken to review and
recommend institutional options, propose draft legislation and discuss specific issues in the regulation of
the energy and telecommunications sectors in order to assist the Government to think about its options for
public utilities. ORESE was made responsible for preparing the regulatory framework and creating the new
regulatory agency. The original plan under discussion was to establish a multisectoral regulatory agency,
for which ORESE prepared draft legislation, that would allow effective use (sharing) of scarce human
resources across the sectors. Instead, the Government eventually sent legislation for a separate regulatory
agency for telecommunications which was approved by Parliament in December 1998. Legislation for
regulation of the energy sector has been prepared. Approval by the new Government and Parliament is still
pending.
C.    Financial Analysis Project. The first steps in this study were a review and analysis of the
financial statements of several large enterprises, on the basis of which a financial reporting system for
enterprises was established. The system consists broadly of two parts, the first of which is a module for
complete financial data required for transparency of company controls and reporting to the Govemment.
The second operational module has been tailored to each of nine very different PEs (e.g., shipping,
- 3 -



electricity and broadcasting enterprises). Enterprise staff have been trained in the use of the software. The
database is expected to improve intemal controls, help in the consolidation process, and assist ORESE in
reporting to the Government through a continuous process of identifying, collecting and analyzing data.
The reports produced by the system have been and continue to be used by the Govemment in its dialogue
with and in reporting to the IMF.
D.    Internal Audit Project. ORESE commissioned in-depth audit work and training for three of the
most important state-owned enterprises, INA (gas and oil), HEP (power) and HPT (post and telecoms).
This project helped accomplish the first step in a long process, that is, increasing the enterprises' awareness
of what needs to be done in the audit area, with an emphasis on addressing the issues of intemal audit and
financial management as they proceed with privatization. Another conclusion of the project was that the
weakness or absence of intemal audit is wide-spread throughout the enterprise sector in Croatia and a
broad country-wide program to develop internal audit capacity should be undertaken. As a consequence,
ORESE recommended an in-depth and timely audit of HPT--which contributed to the successful partial
privatization of HT, that is, the sale of 35% of the telecom company to a strategic investor in 1999.
E.    Support for HEP and the Power Sector. The Project aimed to facilitate key reforms in the power
sector which were supported by the EFSAL. The following TA activities were irnplemented.
A Blueprint for the restructuring and partial privatization of HEP was drafted, revised on the basis
of discussions with and approved by the Governnent. The expected next steps however were not fully
carried out: the preparation of the detailed action plan for the restructuring and privatization of HEP was
announced but repeatedly postponed by HEP's forner management. Moreover, preparation of a regulatory
framework as described above for energy was included in draft legislation prepared in 1999, but the
previous Government failed to present the draft legislation to parliament before the end of its tenure.
Financial separation study of HEP's district heating activities. The separation of the district
heating activities from HEP is a condition for disbursement of the second tranche of the EFSAL. The
results of the study will also be a key input for a proposed Bank-supported project to modernize district
heating currently under preparation. The study was completed in December 1999 and supported by a
technical master plan study financed by HEP itself. Actual creation of a new district heating subsidiary is
scheduled for the second half of 2000.
HEP Benchmarking exercise. Following the review and analysis of the financial statements of
several large enterprises, including HEP, it was intended to carry out a more detailed and technically
focused analysis of HEP's performance, with a view to benchmarking the company with similar enterprises
around the world. HEP's former management, unfortunately, did not cooperate fully in providing the
expected inputs. Before the loan closing date, the Government informed the Bank of its decision to
temporarily table this study.
F.    Pilot Spin-Off Program for Shipyards. This subcomponent provided for consulting services to
analyze the Croatian shipbuilding industry and prepare a pilot spin-off and outsourcing program of the
non-core businesses of five shipyards in the Rijeka region. The analysis involved an organizational review
and evaluation of the shipyards, a fnancial review and analysis of the commercial sections of the
shipyards' non-core business units and subsidiaries, and an assessment of necessary investments for those
business units and subsidiaries to make them competitive. Cooperation was good at four of the five
shipyards while resistance was strong at the fifth. Recommendations included merging essential activities
for all shipyards where possible, personnel cutbacks, completion of outsourcing begun in the past with
formal legal separation, and financing of the spin-off process. It remains to be seen how the report findings
- 4 -



and recommendations will be implemented, as only one yard has effectively started to iTnplement the
recommendations.
Component H. Privatization of Former Socially Owned Enterprises
Under this component the loan provided for consultant services for the detailed design of the
voucher privatization program, which resulted in the privatization of 471 socially-owned enterprises
(SOEs) with a nominal value of US$2 billion, and the establishment of seven private Privatization
Investment Funds (PIFs) with the participation of about 340,000 persons who benefited from the
distribution of vouchers. The voucher privatization program was successfully completed after three bidding
rounds, the last of which was held in September 1998.
Reform of the Croatian enterprise sector started in 1991. The Socially-Owned Enterprise model
inherited from the Yugoslav socialist system not only left behind an enterprise and managerial culture not
adapted to a market economy, but also largely determined the privatization process, launched in 1993, for
about 2800 SOEs, which gave an overwhelming preference to manager and employee buy-outs. The
traditional privatization method of selling enterprises to outside strategic investors was foreseen in the
privatization law, but was in fact not much in favor and often discouraged. The voucher privatization
program financed by TALl had been designed belatedly to finish the privatization process. The
Privatization Law passed in 1996 entitled about 300,000 people, eligible as displaced civilians, civil
victims of the war or families of missing soldiers, to receive free vouchers which could be exchanged for
shares of enterprises or tumed over to one of the PIFs. A Public Awareness Campaign to inform the public
of their rights and potential benefits under the voucher program was prepared and carried out under the
Capital Markets Development Project.
Technical assistance funds were originally allocated for use by the Croatian Privatization Fund
(CPF) to prepare specific privatization transactions and to upgrade its information systems. The CPF used
its own financial resources instead and TALl  funds were reallocated to other project components, primarily
the restructuring of the PEs.
Component III. Rehabilitation and Privatization of the Banking System
This component included the financing of advisory services to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
(BRA), the financing of the financial audit and portfolio reviews of selected commercial banks, four of
which were ultimately included in the EFSAL program, and financing of privatization advisors for three of
the banks included under the EFSAL. The objective of this component will soon be successfully fulfilled.
Recently the Government completed the sale of two of the largest state banks, Privredna Banka and
Splitska Banka both to Italian investors. Privatization of the remaining state bank, Rijecka Banka, is on
track and could be completed within the next month. The significance of the sale of the large state banks
should not be limited to its fiscal impact. It represents a strong boost to stability and confidence in the
entire Croatian banking system.
Disbursements under this component lagged at first as grant financing was found for a major
expenditure, the services of a Senior Banking Advisor to the BRA. TAL1 financing was also not needed for
preparation of the restructuring and privatization strategy for Slavonska Banka, the fourth large state bank
under the EFSAL program, when the EBRD emerged as a buyer. Despite the successful sale of Slavonska
Banka, the privatization of the remaining three banks left under the BRA's rehabilitation program was
delayed until late in 1999, when, due to considerable fiscal constraints, the Government formally launched
- 5 -



the banks' privatization process. Implementation of these three contracts, procured and partly financed
under TALl, was completed with TAL2 and Borrower's own funds.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was felt in several areas as a result of a number of reforms begun
in the context of the EFSAL and supported by TAL1.
(i)     Preparation of a new -- the first -- utilities regulatory framework was developed and
training was financed for ORESE staff who would be involved in utilities regulatory work.
Legislation was enacted for the regulatory framework in telecommunications. The regulatory
legislation has been prepared for the energy sector. Approval by the new Government and Parliament
is still pending.
(ii)    Development of a financial and operational database for public enterprises has had great
impact by improving data collection and analysis, internal controls and enterprise control over its
divisions. Enterprises' ability to implement the database fully is still in process and is expected to
continue to improve over time.
(iii)   The financial database has reinforced ORESE's ability to monitor enterprise performance
and report to the Government on public enterprise operations through a continuous process of
identifying, collecting and analyzing data. Although data reporting differs among enterprises
depending on their ability to implement the database, ORESE remains the best source for data within
the Government.
(iv)    Awareness was enhanced and some skills developed in the area of internal audit of
enterprises, particularly the large PEs. This is the beginning of a long process in addressing the
issues of internal audit and financial management as enterprises proceed with privatization.
(v)     Ownership of 471 SOEs was transferred to the private sector through the voucher
privatization program and seven private investment funds were established. The project significantly
supported this major component of Croatia's privatization program. It did not however influence the
other privatization tracks under the direct control of the CPF, whose new management, appointed
after TALI was approved, was reluctant to use foreign financed technical assistance.
(vi)    The BRA has had great impact in its continued role in dealing with the resolution of
troubled banks' portfolios. Privatization of the three largest banks was successfully completed and
the privatization transactions of the remaining large state bank is expected to come to closure soon.
(vii)    Implementation capacity for project management and management and supervision of
consultants has been developed within the various implementing agencies.
(viii)    Management and implementation expertise developed in the Project Implementation Unit
proved to be a key ingredient to smooth project implementation as well as facilitating the relationship
- 6 -



between the Bank and the MOF. Today, the PIU, comprised of full-time MOF staff, continues to
function within the ministry, managing TAL2 and contributing to the implementation of other
Bank-financed projects, with primary responsibility for their financial management systems (LACI).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As already mentioned, the enterprise and financial structures inherited from the old Yugoslav system
were not adapted to a market economy and called for far-reaching institutional and policy reforms, which at
times were slow in coming. Timing of project outputs were in turn sometimes delayed. Project
implementation was also slow at times because Croatia did not benefit from large foreign assistance
programs after its independence like other countries in central and eastern Europe and hence lacked
necessary implementation experience.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Smooth implementation of the project depended on ownership of project activities, by the
Government collectively and the implementing agencies individually. For the most part, the implementing
agencies cooperated fully to meet the objectives of the Governments reform program supported by TALl.
Lack of cooperation for the benchmarking study by HEP's former management was counterproductive,
resulting in the suspension of a study that ultimately will be required if the Government intends to promote
privatization in the energy sector.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At the initial stage, Project implementation was slower than anticipated. Early disbursements were
made under a retroactive financing arrangement for urgent, clearly defined studies whose implementation
began before project effectiveness. Delays due to inexperience in Bank -- especially procurement --
procedures were less frequent as the agencies gained experience and were assisted by an increasingly
experienced Project Unit.
It should be noted that certain agencies decided intentionally not to use TALI funds, either because
they perceived Bank procedures to be extremely restrictive and complex, or because alternative financing,
from donors or the Govenment budget, were found.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost is estimated at US$7.11 million, higher than the US$6.2 million estimated at
appraisal. Loan funds were reallocated per the Government's request due to circumstances having changed
since project preparation. Fewer activities were financed under the component for privatization of former
SOEs, and more financing went toward the large enterprise and bank restructuring/privatization. Total cost
of the BRA component was higher than expected at appraisal because the privatization contracts for the
three large state-owned banks totaled almost US$2.4 million, of which about US$1 .06m was financed from
TALI ($0.5m from TAL2) and US$0.81m from the Borrower's own funds.
At the Government's request, approximately US$350,000 of TALl funds were used to finance a
funding shortfall that the Capital Markets Development Project (CMDP), a single currency, Deutsche
Mark denominated loan, experienced due to the sharp depreciation of the DEM against the US dollar over
the period the CMDP was implemented. Several large contracts with implementation periods ranging
between 12 and 20 months had been denominated in US dollars.
The loan was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement paid on April 27, 2000.
- 7-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
In judging project sustainability, one should take into consideration the fact that several key TALl
activities were directly associated with privatization activities, i.e., BRA bank privatization, which have
been successfully completed. Other TAL1 related activities were not expected to continue over time.
Nevertheless, project sustainability, where applicable, is considered likely. Policy dialog continues and it
appears that the new Government is committed to continuing reforms in order for Croatia to become a
full-fledged market economy, to encourage foreign investment and to create the foundations for sustainable
growth. This will mean taking difficult decisions to implement the findings of some of the studies
implemented under TALI, whose recommendations had both social and political implications.
The Government has strong technical support from the agencies charged with implementation of
reforms. For one, ORESE has developed strong technical know-how over the last few years but will not be
able to fulfill its mandate if it, in turn, does not continue to receive strong Government support. Ongoing
Bank operations, the EFSAL, TAL2 and a possible SAL under consideration, will further support the
reform program.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. There were no
significant deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project preparation. Originally, this project was a
component of the EFSAL and continued to be very closely linked to the Government's reform program
after it became a free-standing operation. Bank staff assisted the Government in identifying key areas
needing technical assistance. The project received about 25 staff weeks for project preparation through
Negotiations directly related to TALI. It is not possible to calculate the benefit of additional staff time
received indirectly in the context of EFSAL preparation.
7.2 Supervision:
The original decision to make the project flexible so it would best fulfill the Government's needs
made the project highly supervision intensive, requiring a great deal of technical input for the preparation of
terms of reference and close guidance at every stage of the procurement process and during implementation.
Also, while implementation of project components was officially handled by several agencies, additional
direct contact and coordination with other public enterprises and agencies were required for some activities.
This supplementary time was a contributing factor to the smooth project implementation.
The project benefited from about 53 staff weeks of supervision which, in addition to the task
leader's time, included the regular participation of financial and privatization specialists, as well as that of
regulatory, telecoms and energy specialists when needed. Although the project was officially supervised
twice a year, it reaped the benefits of additional assistance and expertise due to its links with several other
Bank operations under preparation or implementation in private sector development and energy. Again,
TAL I benefited from the participation of additional staff inputs because supervision missions were ainost
always in conjunction with those for the EFSAL.
- 8 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Bank worked very closely with the
implementing agencies to ensure that project activities and outcomes were tailored to the agencies' needs
and so that the Borrower would receive the greatest benefit.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was mostly Bank-led due to the Government's inexperience at the time in
preparing a technical assistance project. The Bank worked closely to prepare terms of reference with the
agencies who would implement the consultancies.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) was responsible for implementation decisions and overall
coordination of the project through its Project Imnplementation Unit with whom the Bank had a cooperative
and well-functioning relationship. Execution of individual components was delegated to several
implementing agencies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The agencies to whom implementation responsibility was delegated were the following.
* Ministry of Privatization for elaboration of privatization policy and preparation
of the detailed strategy, including mapping of privatization, launching of the public awareness
campaign and promotion with foreign investors.
* Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises for monitoring
the performance of large public enterprises, in particular reviewing and analyzing their financial
performance and assisting in the preparation and implementation of restructuring programs.
*  Bank Rehabilitation Agency for rehabilitating and privatizing selected troubled
banks, cleaning up troubled banks' balance sheets and developing a deposit insurance fund.
*  Ministry of Economy for activities in the power sector and the shipyards.
Two of the original implementing agencies, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and
Communications and the Croatian Privatization Fund, ultimately did not participate in activities financed
directly by the loan. In these cases, the related activities were dealt with in other contexts, e.g., issues in
telecommunications were handled under the auspices of ORESE, and TALl funds to support this were
reallocated.
The PIU and the main implementing agencies were very responsive to implementation needs of the
project and generally an excellent cooperation was established and maintained. Although, as mentioned,
this arrangement was highly supervision intensive, it not only served to transfer skills to the Croatian
counterparts responsible for procurement, but it also fulfilled the objective of avoiding the creation of a
bottleneck which may have resulted had one agency on the Borrower's side had sole responsibility for all
procurement activities.
-9-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, performance of the Borrower's implementing agencies can be assessed as satisfactory.
Targets proposed under the project were for the most part met, and expenditures remained within
reasonable margins of the original plans.
8. Lessons Learned
Flexibility of Project Design. The Project was designed to assist the Government to implement its
program of reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors as supported by the EFSAL. As mentioned, the
Government focussed less, at first, on utilizing technical assistance to reach its objectives, given the main
task at hand, that of creating a new country and fostering its transition. In this context, the flexibility in
TALI's design allowed project implementation to continue both when technical assistance priorities
changed and when alternative financing was found.
Project Management. The project management structure was adapted specifically to support the
Government's large reform program. The fact that several implementing agencies were each given
responsibility for execution of their own components avoided creation of a bottleneck which would have
appeared had all procurement gone through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which was also
managing a second Bank-fnanced project. Under TALl, the PIU acted as a resource to the other agencies
which handled their own contracts. The fact that the project was highly supervision intensive on the part of
the Bank would have to be considered before applying this arrangement to other projects.
Expectations. Studies were completed in a reasonable amount of time, although both the
Government and the Bank may have been a bit optimistic about activities moving forward as quickly as
expected at the time of project preparation. Given the implementing agencies' inexperience with technical
assistance in general and Bank procedures specifically, the expectation that the project would be completed
in two years was perhaps more a reflection of the Government and the Bank's assessment of how quickly
reforms should move to benefit the country. All project activities were completed within three years; the
additional four-month extension was approved to allow completion of the audit of 1999 accounts of TALI,
TAL2 and the CMDP.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In his cover letter forwarding the Borrower's review of the Project to the Bank, the Assistant
Minister of Finance stated that the draft ICR sent to the Government for comment "represents very well all
aspects of the Technical Assistance Project design, implementation and close-out." The review of the
Project from the Borrower's perspective appears in Annex 8 of this report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
The following studies and consultancies were completed under TALl.
(1)     Financial audit and portfolio reviews of selected commercial banks *
(2)     Studies of the INA Refmery
(a) for strategic planning for the refinery and distribution
- 10-



(b) for wholesale marketing
(3)     Study for restructuring of the Kutina Fertilizer Plant
(4)     Design of the voucher privatization program for socially-owned enterprises
(5)     Study on Independent Regulation of Utilities in Western Europe
(6)     Preparation of the blueprint for the Restructuring and Partial Privatization of
HEP
(7)     Financial Management Project (ORESE)
(8)     Internal Audit Project (ORESE)
(9)     Accounting and MIS Project for the BRA
(10)    Pilot Spin-off Program for large enterprises in the shipbuilding sector
(11)    Regulatory Framework and Agency Design (utilities regulation)
(12)    Design of SOE Financial Database Pack (software)
(13)    Launching of privatization process for three state banks under EFSAL
(14)    Separation of accounts of district heating from HEP
(15)    HEP benchmarking study (partly completed, temporarily tabled)
*    These consultancies were undertaken with an advance from the Project Preparation Facility
approved for the EFSAL. When the technical assistance activities were split off from the EFSAL, it was
decided to refinance the PPF advance from TALl.
- 11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/ lmpact Indicators:             _         _        _        _ i_________;__________________
Completion of studies contracted and   All studies were expected to be completed   All contracted studies were completed except
implementation of their findings in the context with the possible exception of the HEP  for the HEP benchmarking study, the
of the Govemmenfs reform program,      benchmarking study.                    completon of which was delayed by the
supported by the EFSAL.                                                       previous Govemment.
Output Indicators:
: Idoator dtrtx           |ojeeted I id t tF W P                           Actuatltatas    iman
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Corn nent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuaLatest   Percentage of
.    E_            -Esfftmate     Appraisa
Pr_ ct Cost By Componnt                US$ million     US$ L  ilfion
1. Privatization of former socially owned enterprises  1.20            0.85            35
2. Rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system  2.00         2.57           147
3. Restructuring and privatization of public enterprises  3.00          3.70           125
Total Baseline Cost                                    6.20             7.12
Total Project Costs                6.20            7.12
Total Financing Required                6.20             7.12
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuremeunt Method I
Expend    Catgoy          ICe          NCB                      N. F:       Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         5.00          1.20         6.20
(0.00        (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)        (5.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(00)(0.00)         (0.      00  (0.00)               (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         5.00         1.20         6.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      I             C                       N.BF.       Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
.________________  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         5.00         2.12          7.12
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
__ _ ___ .__. _ i (0.00)   ( 0          (0            (0.00)       (0.00)
- 13-



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           5.00            2.12           7.12
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)          (0.00)         (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equiva lent)
________    _an                 (iBak                           Gv.        _  .    _an    _ot   __P
1. Privatization of former  1.25     0.00      0.00       0.85       0.00      0.00     68.0    0.0    0.0
socially owned enterprises
2. Rehabilitation and     1.80       0.15      0.00       2.07       0.25      0.25     115.0  166.7   0.0
privatization of the banking
system
3. Restructuring and      1.95       1.05      0.00       2.08       1.32      0.30    106.7  125.7   0.0
privatization of public
enterprises
- 14 -



Annax 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 15-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
/a
Appraisal/Negotiation
3   Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off          S                  S
/b
Supervision
06/95 /c                       3  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off           S                 S
07/96                          3  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off           S                 S
03/97                          3  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off           S                 S
06/97                          3  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off           S                  S
11/97                         3  Priv Spec, Op Off, Reg Spec            S                 S
06/98                          4  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off, Tel      S                 S
Spec
11/98                         4  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off, Reg       S                 S
Spec
9/99                           3  Fin Spec, Priv Spec, Op Off           S                  S
ICR
12/99                         3   Op Off                                S                 S
/a   The TAL originated as a component of the EFSAL and was transformed into a separate project at the
tirne of appraisal. For that reason no separate identification or preparation missions are listed.
/b   Fin Spec  Financial Specialist              Tel Spec  Telecoms Specialist
Priv Spec Privatization Specialist         Reg Spec Regulatory Specialist
Op Off   Operations Officer
/c All supervision missions were held in conjunction with or within a very short time of EFSAL
supervisions, whose mission chief, the financial specialist for the project, reviewed progress of the banking
component of the TAL.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
._________________     No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation
AppraisalNegotiation                     28.6                         92.7
Supervision                 5_6.5                                    195.8
ICR                                        /d
Total                                    85.1                        288.5
/d   SAP system does not distinguish between SPN and ICR
- 16 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
zMacro policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
8 Financial                             OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
X Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development            0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)
- 17 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
ER Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
J Supervision                                         OHS OS   Ou   OHU
2 Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
X Preparation                                         O HS    s   O u   O HU
X Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agencyperformance                    O HS      S   0u   O HU
F Overall                                             OHS *S  0 U O HU
- 18 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P-6792-HR
* Technical Annex, Report No. T-6792-HR
* Loan Agreement, No. 3989-HR
* Pilot Spin-Off Program for Large Enterprises: Shipyard Holdings, Bohn Domazet & Associates,
February 3, 1998
* Strategic Planning and Restructuring of INA Petrokemija Kutina Fertilizer Company -
Summary of Findings and Recommendations, Arthur D. Little
Phase 1: Market Evaluation, January 30, 1996
Phase 2: Competitive Position, March 11, 1996
Phase 3: Strategic Direction, April 17, 1996
Phase 4: Restructuring Program, May 15, 1996
* Financial Analysis Project, Arthur Andersen
Presentation on Phase 1, February 26, 1997
* Regulatory Framework and Agency Design, London Economics w/ Adam Smith International and
Bureau Francis Lefebvre, January 1998
* TAL1 supervision and audit reports
Other related documents:
* Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, MOP, Report No. P-6844-HR
* Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for Private Sector Development,
PAD, Report No. 18975-HR
* Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 14088-HR, April 1995
* Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 19949-HR, May 1999
* A Policy Agenda for Reform and Growth, January 31, 2000
* EFSAL PPF request/approval
* EFSAL supervision reports
- 19-



Annex 8. Review of the Technical Assistance Project from the Borrower's Perspective
1.     Background
The overall aim of the Technical Assistance Project in Support of Enterprise and Financial Sector
Reform (TALI) was to support the Government's program of reforms in the enterprise and banking sector.
In particular, the Government wanted to achieve following objectives:
a. Restructuring and Privatization of Public Enterprises;
b. Privatization of Former Socially-owned Enterprises, and
c. Rehabilitation and Privatization of the Banking Sector.
The Technical Assistance Project provided technical assistance and training. The total cost of the
Project was estimated at US$ 6.2 million equivalent. The World Bank financed US$ 5 million equivalent of
the project cost and the Borrower participated with local funds corresponding to the US$ 1.2 million.
2.     Specific Comments of the Borrower on the TALl Implementation
When evaluating the TALl, it should be noted that the practical objectives of the project were to:
(i)    help in the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises through studies and
advisory
(ii)   services; assist the Government to complete the privati7ation of former socially-owned
enterprises;
(iii)   support the rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system.
2.1    Project design
With the help of the World Bank's team of dedicated specialists, the Technical Annex of the TALI
was kind of generally developed, giving more the profiles of individual experts needed for achievement of
above objectives, rather than looking into overall project aims. Combined with somewhat unprepared
Croatian counterparts who should have benefited from the intended technical assistance, it was not specific
enough to guide the project implementation process sufficiently. The net result is that the project suffered
delays and that the some of results of related studies could not be efficiently implemented.
It should be noted that the overall Croatian economical and political situation during the project
implementation was very complex, affecting the role and organization of the implementing entities, which
contributed considerably to the project results. Somewhat better understanding of local imperfections
during realignments of the project in the course of the implementation, could have helped to overcome road
blocks in its implementation. Consequently, the results of the project could be judged as satisfactory and
not particularly cost effective.
- 20 -



2.2    Project implementation
On specific activities, conducted within the above-mentioned, basic components, comments are
provided below.
2.2.1  Restructuring and Privatization of public enterprises - activities implemented under
coordination of the Office for the Restructuring of State-Owned Enterprises (ORESE)
(a)    Kutina Fertilizer Company Study (450.000 $), consultant Arthur. D. Liffle
The consultant suggested a very comprehensive restructuring program for the Kutina Fertilizer
Company in order to bring its operation and profitability at the European level. Unfortunately, the main
calculation was based on the price of urea at world market of approximately 200 US $/t, at the time the
study was made. As the price rapidly dropped to the value of 65 US $/t in December 1999, suggestions
provided by the consultants could not be implemented.
(b)    INA Refineries Study (250.000 $, with 50% paid by INA), consultant Arthur Andersen.
In direct cooperation between the Bank specialists and INA (and with marginal or no involvement
from ORESE), and as two of the earliest activities under TALI, the following analyses were executed,
a      Strategic Analysis of the Refining and Distribution Business of INA (contract value 500,000 $;
with 250,000 $ financed from TALl and the balance of 250,000 $ was ensured by INA), consultant Arthur
Andersen
a      Strategic Analysis of the Wholesale and Marketing Business of INA, consultant Arthur Andersen
(contract value 200,000 $; with 100,000 $ financed from PHRD Grant TF025229 and the balance of
100,000 $ was ensured by INA)
(c)    Financial Analysis and Internal Audit Study (500.000 $) - consultant Arthur Andersen,
complemented with the Study related Software Development (41.232 $), and contract extension (22.932 $)
- consultant Arthur Andersen.
Financial Analysis. As a result of analysis of operation and establishment of "company profile" for
10 public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia, at the end of 1997 the consultant concluded the
above study. Direct benefits of the Study were end-of-year financial reports for each of the public
enterprises, including all relevant financial indicators. During preparation and analysis of data for the year
1998, it was noted that, for efficient processing of required data, a more comprehensive software system
was needed. This was accomplished through the Software Development Project. The new system was
developed as a very flexible Data Base in English and Croatian, as compared with a spreadsheet approach
used initially. The system was tested in preparation of 1998 end-of-year reports and proved to be a very
good tool for the follow-up, analysis, performance comparison and audits of all types of public enterprises,
with financial parameters being standardized and transparent.
Unfortunately, due to internal restructuring of Croatian governmental bodies and agencies, starting
at the beginning of 1999, the active role and importance of ORESE became somewhat decreased.
Consequently, the positive effects of this project are not yet fully used.
-21 -



(d)    Regulatory Framework (347.687 $) - consultant London Economics,
Complemented with the training for the ORESE Staff:
*     Utility Regulation and Strategy (24.927 $)
*     Regulation of Utilities and Monopolies (29.300 $)
The objective of the study was to create the regulatory framework for public services and prepare
the basis for the Law for establishment of an Agency to regulate public services.
Results of the study were used to produce a draft version of the Law on Regulation of Public
Services. The document was passed to all relevant institutions for comments at the end of 1998. The
received comments and suggestions were introduced and the draft Law submitted to the Government for
evaluation and acceptance at the beginning of 1999. As of today, there are no further developments
regarding this Law.
Independent of the ORESE's suggestion, in July 1999, the Government passed a Law on
Telecommunications, which established the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications. Its work was
initiated at the beginning of 2000.
(b)    HEP Blueprint (32.023 $) - consultant London Economics
The objective of this study was to identify the sequence of activities necessary for adjustment of the
electric energy sector to the market economy.
The "Blueprint Study" resulted with a set of suggestions for structural changes in the electric
energy sector in Croatia. The Government of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Electricity
Generating Board were indicated as responsible for implementation of suggested changes. These changes
should have been implemented through definition of the new legal and regulatory regime and the
corresponding implementation schedule. New legal documents should have been used for reorganization
and privatization of the electric energy sector.
Due to slow pace of structural changes in the energy sector in general, the most of activities
specified in the "Blueprint" are suffering delays of two years or more.
(c)    HEP Benchmarking Study (175.000 $) - consultant Arthur Andersen
The objective of the study was to harmonize main operating indicators of the Croatian Electricity
Generating Board (HEP) in line with international standards and practices.
Based on the requirements of the consultant, the HEP created a dedicated team to support the
project, and collect available inputs for the study. In the process, the HEP's Management Board concluded
that the consultant's approach was conflicting with the HEP's model on "Reporting on business results and
achievements of operating objectives" established within HEP with the help of Irish consultant ESBI.
In the situation where the ORESE's existence was practically extinguished (mid 1999), and with
the ORESE being the main contractor for the study, the HEP's Management Board decided to cancel its
participation in the study. One of the main reasons for such a decision was the position of the HEP's
Management Board that most of requested information represent HEP's internal information and the HEP's
business secret. According to them, such information could be presented only as HEP's proprietary
information.
- 22 -



(d)    Feasibility Study on District Heating Separation from HEP (368.491 $) - consultant ESBI
The objective of this study was to prepare the "Strategic Business Plan for the District Heating
Subsidiary" or district heating separation from the HEP's organization. The study was efficiently
completed. In parallel, with the help of German consultant MVV, the HEP is preparing the "Master Plan
for the Croatian District Heating in Next 20 Years".
These two studies together will be the basis for the HEP's Management Board decision on the
district heating separation.
2.2.2 The Restructuring and Privatization of Former Socially-Owned Enterprises
Activities implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy
(a)    Pilot Spin-off Program for Shipyards (199.800 $) - consultant Bohn, Domazet & Associates
G.m.b.H.
To deal with the critical financial situation of the 5 main shipyards, the Government included them
in the group of special enterprises subject to the 1995 Law on rehabilitation of selected enterprises. This
law provided for a significant debt restructuring of these enterprises, including debt-to-equity swaps as a
result of which the suppliers and other creditors could become shareholders of the yards. However, few of
the other significant measures recommended in the 1994195 Reconstruction report have yet been
implemented. One has been the creation of an umbrella organization, the Croatian Shipbuilding
Corporation (Jadranbrod Ltd). This governmental organization currently acts essentially as a joint
marketing/negotiating and orders coordinating body for the individual shipyards, which have kept their
independent status.
This sub-component provided for consulting services to analyze the Croatian shipbuilding industry
and prepare a pilot spin-off and outsourcing program of the non-core business of 5 shipyards along the
Adriatic coast.
With some start-up problems in ensuring the contribution of selected shipyards (which was later-on
rectified), the Spin-off study was reasonably well completed. The Ministry of Economy presented the
results to the Jadranbrod Ltd., with the recommendation that the findings of the study should be
implemented as a part of the ongoing restructuring program of the Croatian shipyards. Consequently, the
Jadranbrod Ltd. should have initiated the actual implementation arrangements with individual shipyards.
Unfortunately, until today no changes resulting from the Pilot Spin-off Program have materialized.
Activities implemented under the responsibility of the AMinistry of Privatization
(b)    Consulting Services for the Design of a Mass Privatization Program (contract amount 348,622 $;
actually used 232,110 $) - consultant Price Waterhouse
The objective of this sub-component was to ensure appropriate assistance to the Ministry of
Privatization (MOP) in the detailed elaboration of the proposed Mass Privatization Program (MPP), taking
into account specific economic, social and political situation in Croatia and to ensure smooth
implementation of the program.
- 23 -



As the MOP mainly utilized their own resources for the development of the MPP, consultant's
services were mainly used to complement MOP's ongoing efforts. Consequently, only 2/3 of the available
funds under TALI were actually used for the initially intended purpose.
2.2.3 The Rehabilitation and Privatization of the Banking Sector
Activities implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance
(a)    Financial Audit and Portfolio Reviews of Selected Commercial Banks (800.000 $ PPF plus an
additional 22.371 $ from the Loan)
Under the agreement with the Bank, for the preparation of the TALl Project in the banking sector,
the following activities were financed from the Project Preparation Facility:
a     Audit of the operations of Splitska banka d.d., Rijecka banka d.d. and Istarska banka (contract
amount 300.000 $, actually used 300.000 $) - consultant KPMG
*     Audit of the operations of Zagrebacka banka cdd., Slavonska banka d.d. and Dubrovacka banka
d.d. (contract amount 300.000 $, actually used 240.000 $) - consultant Coopers & Lybrand
*     Audit of operations of Privredna banka d.d., Jadranska banka d.d. and Cibale banka d.d. (contract
amount 300.000 $, actually used 287.625 $) - consultant Deloitte & Touche
Activities implemented under the responsibility of Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA)
The aim of this component was partial privatization of the selected banks so that at the latest June
30, 1999 the Agency's share in those banks decreases to 50%+l share. The privatization was envisaged
through the combination of the issuing the new shares and selling of the existing shares by public offering
or private placing to the strategic investor to achieve the mentioned shareholders' structure.
(b)    Advisory Services for the Privatization of Rijecka banka (contract value 935.000 $, with 492.620
$ financed from TALl) - consultant Deloitte & Touche & HSBC Investment Bank
(c)    Advisory Services for the Privatization of Privredna banka (contract value 496.000 $, with
277.360 $ financed from TALI) - consultant ABN AMRO
(d)    Advisory Services for the Privatization of Splitska banka (contract value 945.000 $, with 284.878
$ financed from TALl) - consultant Daiwa Europe
In the privatization process the consultants were typically used to:
*     estimate the need for additional capital in accordance with the existing situation within above banks
and with the predictable development for at least two years;
*     evaluate the market and investigate the potential advantages of the public offering and private
placing, and in the case that the private placing is recommended, to nominate potential strategic investors
for issuing the new shares and purchase of shares
*     to prepare the privatization plan
- 24 -



The balance of necessary funding was ensured by the BRA, supported with the additional
500.000 $ from the TAL2.
The main comment on the privatization process from the BRA, was that at several occasions
agreements reached with the Bank and with their implementation already initiated, the Bank would change
the requirements, which created considerable problems for the BRA.
In the meantime all three banks have been successfully privatized.
Other items financed by the Loan for the BRA were:
(a)    Development and implementation of accounting and management informnation system (IT/MIS)
(contract value 98.000 $; actually used 90.712,70 $), consultant IDOM Services Ltd.
(b)    Contract for Hlousing Allowance (15.000 $), consultant Glendale Consulting Ltd.; Advisores fee
was paid by U.K. Know How Fund
2.2.4 The key points of the project implementation process are:
*     the World Bank's Task Manager responsible for the Project rendered responsive on-line support in
all on-going technical and procurement issues;
*     the participation of other World Bank's specialists was somewhat incoherent. In spite of the good
will to support individual project components, the overall coordination between the Croatian counterparts
in the implementing agencies, specialists assigned by the World Bank to individual project components, and
the PIU was missing.
*     the cooperation between the Bank specialists and Croatian counterparts was in principle always
good.
*     due to constantly changing Croatian macro-economic situation and re-alignments of the
Government's or intemal organizations, Croatian counterparts were frequently not able to synchronize
objectives of the specific technical assistance with the current Government's policies.
*     specific consultancy contracts were, as a result, handled on a case-by-case basis between the
Agency in charge and the responsible Bank expert, with sometimes insufficiently elaborated technical basis,
which created problems and delays during implementation of the specific consultancy.
*     the appropriate feedback, at the project level, between all parties involved in day-to-day activities
was somewhat lacking;
*     the TALI Project was considerably influenced by and subjected to accomplishment of the EFSAL
Project, which sometimes created conflicting priorities;
*     taking the above into account, and under given circumstances, it could be stated that the project
was implemented in line with the World Bank's rules and policies, creating a reasonable base for further
development of the Croatian economy and its privatization. Some of analyses performed under the aims of
the TALI Project were unfortunately, either wrongly timed or implementation of their results suppressed by
- 25 -



the actual developments in the Croatian economy. Their results will be used, to the extent possible, as it
becomes appropriate.
2.3    Bank performance
The performance of the World Bank's team assigned to the Technical Assistance 1 Project, can be
described as cooperative, but somewhat individualized. In practical terms that meant, that in spite of the
enthusiasm demonstrated by each member of the team, their attention was attributed to the respective
individual components, but the overall coordination was not easy and the appropriate feedback missing.
Such a situation was to a great extent assisted with the overall organization of the project, position and the
role of the Croatian counterparts and an unclear role of the project management function.
Such a situation created quite a challenge for the Task Manager who continuously followed the
work of the PIU. However, it was not always easy to follow the work of experts assigned to individual
components and sub-components, and the progress of each individual activity.
Consequently, in absence of somewhat more structured feedback mechanism, both on the Bank side
and between the Croatian counterparts, the MOF had to rely practically only on the Bank's
"Aide-Memoires" for the overall picture on the project progress.
3.     Project Sustainability
Having basically reached its objectives, the TALl established the framework for further
development of the Croatian economy.
On behalf of the Government it is well understood that additional actions need to be taken, in order
to justify the current investment and to overcome negative influences on the project created by the
continuously changing Croatian political, legal and financial environment.
Due to other macro economic reasons, such as the shortfall of expected international capital
inflows, the actual privatization process was slower than initially anticipated. As a direct result of such a
situation, the Government made an effort to compensate for the shortage of funds under the TALI Project,
and to support initial aims of the TALI Project, by extending its objectives and agreeing with the World
Bank the implementation of the TAL2 Project.
The objectives of the TAL2 Project are to further develop some of the components, initiated under
the TALl Project, such as the development of regulatory functions and capabilities as well as to further
support development of the legislative framework for the energy sector and privatization of banking sector,
combined with other initiatives necessary for the successful privatization process of the Croatian economy.
That particularly concerns the transformation of the publicly owned enterprises, as well as
privatization of the selected large former socially owned enterprises.
Additionally, it is obvious that the regulatory function within the Croatian legal state is
considerably underdeveloped, and additional actions will need to be taken in order to standardize the
regulatory framework with European and international practices as a pre-condition for Croatia to join
European integrations. This segmnent is, however, also considerably influenced by the organization of the
Croatian state mechanisms, which are under reconstruction.
- 26 -



4.     Future Operations
Within the action plan to support some of achievements of the TALl Project, the Government in
cooperation with the World Bank, has already taken specific steps. The additional technical assistance has
been ensured for further development of the regulatory framework, energy legislative framework and banks
privatization under the recently approved Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory
Reform for Private Sector Development (Loan No. 4460-HR) - TAL2 Project.
The detailed action plans and the corresponding budget for each of the mentioned components
could be found in the Loan Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan of the TAL2 Project.
5.     Conclusions
Summarizing the above comments, the following could be said based on the Technical Assistance 1
Project:
*     it is essential to have well designed Project Technical Annex (including detailed descriptions and
estimates for each of the project components), as a guideline for each of the parties involved;
*      in the projects of similar nature, Croatian counterparts should ensure better alignment of the
project aims with the current policies of the Government, and re-alignment of such aims if and when such
re-alignment becomes necessary;
*     the understanding of the World Bank's team of the local (changing) political and economical
circumstances, and the continuity of the World Bank's staff on the project is one of the keys to the success
of a project;
*     election of appropriate individuals for heading specific project components both on the Bank's and
the Borrower's sides and clearly set division of responsibility, in the Borrower's scope, are equally
important for the success of the project;
*     the project management function (PIU) could greatly contribute to the project integration, control
and success. Within the TALl Project, the PIU was just a service for disbursements of moneys and could
not play an active role in the project implementation. Within the charter of its responsibilities, during
implementation of the TALl Project, the PIU just helped in implementing the World Bank's policies and
procedures;
*     concerning the scope and objectives the TALl Project, it could be stated that in essence it met its
intentions. However, when evaluating its results, it should be taken into account, that in reality it was not a
self-standing Project. To the great extent, it was considered as a service to the EFSAL Project, which was
of a much greater magnitude and importance. Thus, the end result of the TALl Project could be considered
as acceptable. However, the lessons leamed from this project, especially for the Croatian side, represent a
valuable asset for implementation of the similar multidisciplinary technical assistance projects.
- 27 -



Annex 9. Aide-memoire of ICR mission
Technical Assistance Project
Supervision Mission
Aide-Memoire
I.    Between December 6 - 10, Ms. Ilene Photos, Operations Officer, visited Zagreb in order to
supervise the first Technical Assistance Project (TALl) and to initiate work on the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission met with representatives of the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), ORESE, the Ministry of Economy, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The mission wishes to extend its thanks to the Croatian authorities for the
cooperation and courtesies extended to it. The mission's aide-memoire is subject to review by World Bank
management.
Project Objectives and Status
2.    The project objective, as set out in Memorandum of the President dated February 29, 1996 (Report
No: P-6792-HR), is to support the Government of Croatia's program of reforms by financing studies and
advisory services to help design and implement reforms supported by the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL). In particular, the objectives of the project have been:
(i)   to assist the Government to complete the privatization of former socially-owned
enterprises;
(ii)   to help in the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises through studies and
advisory services; and
(iii)  to support the rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system.
3.    The project has successfully assisted the Government in promoting its reform agenda under the
EFSAL by providing advisory services for the preparation of enterprise restructuring (INA, HPT),
preparation of a utilities regulatory framework, improvement in financial monitoring and analysis of larger
enterprises and privatization of several major banks. Much remains to be done to complete ongoing
activities and initiate follow-on actions that hinge on critical policy decisions the Government will take.
4.     The project is set to close on December 31, 1999. Almost all activities under the project have been
completed, including full disbursement of the US$950,000 from TALI as well as the US$500,000
allocated under TAL2 for payment of advisors engaged to assist in the privatization of Privredna banka,
Splitska banka and Rijecka banka. The staff of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency should be commended on
successfully completing these three complex procurement actions under a very tight timetable.
5.    Of the total Loan amount of US$5 million about US$68,000 are uncommitted. Of this amount, an
estimated US$13,000 will finance the 1999 audit of TALI, TAL2 and the CMDP, the accounts of which
are all managed by the PIU in the Ministry of Finance. The mission gave its no objection to the
Government's request for single source procurement of the auditor. The mission confirmed with the
financial management specialist that it would be appropriate for the PIU to approach Deloitte & Touche
- 28 -



who audited the 1997 and 1998 accounts of TALl and the CMDP. Next year, in order for the audit of the
2000 accounts of TAL2 to be financed from the loan, the auditor will need to be selected from a short list
of firms.
6.    Regarding the remaining funds of the loan, the Government asked whether these funds could be
paid to the BRA as partial reimbursement for payments that the Agency was obliged to make from own
funds to cover the financing gap of one of the bank privatization contracts (Deloitte & Touche/HSBC). On
return to Washington, the mission will look into the matter to see if there is any impediment to doing this.
7.    Of the estimated US$262,305 currently undisbursed, about US$172,000 will be disbursed shortly
upon completion of the District heating study. About US$23,300, intended for the HEP benchmarking
study, may not be disbursed due to the strong possibility that the study will not be completed. The
Government is expected to let the Bank know its decision regarding this study shortly.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
8.    The Borrower, represented by the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank each has its responsibility in
the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission met with representatives of
the Ministry of Finance, ORESE, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and the Ministry of Economy to explain
the ICR process and to discuss the MOF's expectations of the individual agencies to assist in the ICR's
preparation. An advantage for the Borrower is the fact that, over the last six months, the Manager of the
PIU has worked closely with the Task Manager of the ICR for the CMDP. The Bank will prepare its part
of the ICR along Bank guidelines and send it to the Borrower for comment in mid-April.
Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
9.    The Bank's revised guidelines (July 1999) on preparation of ICRs requires the preparation by the
Borrower and the implementing agencies, of a plan giving transitional arrangements indicating actions and
measures to be taken by the Borrower, the relevant Government agencies, and the project entities, to ensure
satisfactory future implementation of activities introduced under the project, and to further the achievement
of the Government's objectives advanced under the project. The plan should:
(a)  provide a description and evaluation of the transition arrangements for the project's future
operation. The arrangements should include appropriate technical, financial, commercial and
institutional provisions to ensure effective project operation. Depending on the nature of the
project, the arrangements would include, for example, the timely provision of all necessary
inputs; adequate staffing (including training) and management; the imnplementation of
financial, economic and other policies required for effective operation and maintenance; and
the marketing of the project's output;
(b)  list the perfornance indicators by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the
future and indicate whether a monitoring and evaluation system will be in place; and
(c)  recommend any follow-up by the Bank, including further monitoring of the project's
operation; discuss the desirability of follow-up projects; and suggest the priority and optimum
timing of a future impact evaluation by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department.
- 29 -



Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation
10.    The Borrower's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's
Operational Manual Statement and Good Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of July 1999). The
Borrower, in addition to commenting on the Bank's ICR, will prepare its own review of implementation.
Copies of the Bank's BP 13.55 and relevant parts of GP 13.55 have been given to the PIU to assist in the
preparation of the Borrower's contribution.
11.    As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Borrower's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting background information and annexes.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
12.    To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing plans, the relevant
tables in the Memorandum of the President (Annex A) are updated. To this end, the PIU provided the
mission with the attached summary of project activities and disbursements which provides the necessary
information. The table will be updated after final disbursements have been made.
Calendar for ICR Preparation
13.    To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both the Borrower's and the Bank's
evaluations, to the Executive Directors by June 30, 2000, as required by Bank guidelines, the following
calendar has been agreed.
February 20, 2000           the implementing agencies will send their draft
Transitional Arrangements plan to the PIU
February 28, 2000           the PIU will send the draft Transitional Arrangements
plan to the Bank
March 15, 2000              the agencies will send their contribution
to the review of implementation to the PIU
April 17, 2000              the Bank will send the draft of its review of
implementation (Part I of the ICR) to the Borrower for
comment
May 8, 2000                 the Borrower will comment on Part I of the ICR and
send its contribution to the Bank.
Coordination of ICR Preparation
14.    The following persons will coordinate the preparation of the ICR:
For the Borrower             Mr. Josip Kulisic, Assistant Minister of Finance,
Ms. Sanja Flegar, Manager, PIU
For the World Bank           Ms. Ilene Photos, Task Manager
Zagreb, Croatia
December 9, 1999
- 30 -



