Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3989 HR
                               Loan Agreement
                        (Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated April 23, 1996
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3989 HR
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
CROATIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Single Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single
Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
Page  2
meanings:
      (a)   "Beneficiary Agencies" means collectively MOE, CPF,
ORESE, MOP, MMATC and BRA;
      (b)   "BRA" means the Borrower's Bank Rehabilitation
Agency, established pursuant to the Law on the State Agency for
Savings Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation, dated June
3, 1994;
      (c)   "CPF" means the Croatian Privatization Fund,
established pursuant to the Law on Croatian Privatization Fund,
dated December 4, 1992.
      (d)   "MMATC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Maritime
Affairs, Transport and Communications;
      (e)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
      (f)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (g)   "MOP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Privatization;
      (h)   "ORESE" means the Borrower's Office for Restructuring
and Economics of State-owned Enterprises, established pursuant
to the Act on Office for Restructuring and Economies of State-
Owned Enterprises;
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 22, 1995 and
March 27, 1995 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to five million dollars
($5,000,000).
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in a
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the effective date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                  and including the date of this Agreement to,
                  but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                  occurring thereafter, and after the initial
                  period, each period from and including an
                  Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
                  next following Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
           (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest
                  Period, the London interbank offered rate for
                  six-month deposits in US dollars for value the
                  first day of such Interest Period (or, in the
                  case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                  the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                  preceding the first day of such Interest
                  Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                  and expressed as a percentage per annum.
            (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each
                  Interest Period:  (A) one half of one percent
                  (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
                  average margin, for such Interest Period, below
                  (or above) the London interbank offered rates,
                  or other reference rates, for six-month
                  deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                  borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the
                  Bank to fund single currency loans or portions
                  thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon
the determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining  the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiration of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through Beneficiary Agencies with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
Page  5
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01.  The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Katanciceva 5
            10000 Zagreb
            Croatia
                                          Telex:
                                          862-21215
                                          862-28133
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Page  6
                        By /s/ Bozo Prka
                                                 Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                    Europe and Central Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated                 % of
                            (Expressed in              Expenditures
                                Dollar                    to be
Category                     Equivalent)                 Financed
(1)   Consultants'             3,810,000              100%
      services, and
      studies
(2)   Refunding of               800,000              Amounts due
      Project                                         pursuant to
      Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                         of this Agreement
(3)   Unallocated                390,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                    5,000,000
                               =========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000
equivalent may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1995.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for
expenditures:  (i) for services provided by consulting firms
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) for
services provided by individual consultants under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist in the
preparation and implementation of the Borrower's program of
reforms in the enterprise and banking sectors.
Page  7
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Privatization of Former Socially Owned Enterprises
(1)   Provision of consultants' services to assist in designing
and implementing the Borrower's mass privatization program,
including the logistics of voucher distribution, exchange of
vouchers for enterprise shares, preparation of the regulatory
framework for special investment funds collecting vouchers,
design and coordination of a public awareness campaign.
(2)   Provision of consultants' services to improve the
privatization of individual enterprises through existing
methods and to assist the Borrower to implement privatization
transactions.
(3)   Provision of consultants' services on aspects of
restructuring and privatization of selected industrial
enterprises.
Part B:     Restructuring and Privatization of Public Enterprises
(1)   Carrying out of INA Kutina Fertilizer Plant (the Kutina
Plant) Study, by May 31, 1996, for the purposes of:
      (i)   identifying measures to maintain and improve its
            competitive position;
      (ii)  analyzing its strategic options;
     (iii)  valuing the Kutina Plant on the basis of its
            present performance and its potential prospects;
      (iv)  formulating a plan for the privatization of Kutina
            as a separate entity from INA; and
      (v)   making preliminary proposals on various options for
            its privatization.
(2)   Carrying out of INA Refineries Study, by June 30, 1996,
for the purpose of determining which refineries should be kept
in operation with minimum upgrading investments, closed or
alternatively offered for sale.
(3)   Carrying out of institutional, tariff and regulatory
studies in the power sector, by May 31, 1997, to design a
least-cost investment plan and analyze institutional and
regulatory framework in the sector.
(4)   Development of tariff policies for the telecommunication
sector, including the mechanism for adjusting tariffs, and
policies for interconnection between the dominant operator and
independent private operators.
(5)   Carrying out, by October 31, 1997, of a spectrum
management study to assist the Borrower in the initial
liberalization of the telecommunication sector; and
(6)   Provision of consultants' services for the Office for
Restructuring and Economics of State-Owned Enterprises to
assist in enterprise audit and financial analysis.
Part C:     Rehabilitation and Privatization of the Banking
System
      Provision of consultants' services to assist the BRA in
the rehabilitation and privatization of selected banks.
                              * * * * *
Page  8
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
      beginning October 15, 2001
      through October 15, 2012                  210,000.00
On April 15, 2013                               170,000.00
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars
to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
General Conditions.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                         Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
Page  9
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    MOF shall have overall responsibility for monitoring of
the Project implementation and  shall coordinate the activities
of the Beneficiary Agencies.
2.    Beneficiary Agencies shall be responsible for carrying out
the following Parts of the Project:  (i) MOE -  Parts A (3) and
B (3); (ii) MMATC - Parts B (4) and (5); (iii) MOP - Part A
(1); (iv) CPF - Part A (2); (v) ORESE - Parts B (1), B (2) and
B (6); and (vi) BRA - Part C of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   ensure all technical assistance provided under the
Project shall be carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   promptly after the completion of each study under
Part B of the Project, furnish to the Bank a copy of its
findings and recommendations and of any reports prepared,
including specific programs or plans of action to meet the
objective of the Project; and
      (c)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of
action.
4.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain adequate procedures to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis in accordance with the project
implementation schedule agreed between the parties, the
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the
objective thereof; and
      (b)   by February 28, 1997, or at such later date as the
Bank shall agree, review with the Bank the progress made in the
implementation of the Project, and thereafter promptly take all
necessary measures to execute the actions identified and agreed
upon between the Bank and the Borrower during such review.
                           SCHEDULE 6
                        Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category  (1),
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate
Page  10
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment
                  is requested.  On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                  the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                  have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
or
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
Page  11
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
