Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4272 
Operation Name 
MA-SOLID WASTE SECTOR DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Solid waste management (100%) 
Project ID 
P104937 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Interior, and Secretariat 
d’Etat de l’Eau et de l’Environment
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat 
Morocco 
Tel: (212-37) 677-266 Fax: (212-37) 677-530 
Ministry of Interior 
Rabat 
Morocco 
T
Tel: 212/37/76 16 90  Fax: 212/37/76 06 67
 
Secretariat d’Etat de l’Eau et de l’Environment 
Rabat 
Morocco 
Tel : 212 37 57 66 47 
Fax: 212 37 57 04 71  
Date PID Prepared 
December 23, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 18, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
March 5, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Most Moroccan cities are characterized by high population densities and rapid growth and suffer from 
several forms of environmental degradation.
 Out of a total population of 30 million, 18 million live in 
urban areas. With the urban population growing at 2.85% per year and per capita consumption increasing, 
municipal solid waste management has become one of the most serious environmental challenges in 
urban areas, with adverse effects on the quality of life, human health, natural resources and the 
environment, and economic and social development.  
 
Morocco’s municipal solid waste services have been defined only in terms of “cleaning”, with the main 
focus on waste collection and limited attention and resource allocation to waste disposal.  This has led to 
significant environmental and social impacts. 
Morocco currently produces about 4.7 million tons of 
municipal solid waste (MSW) per year
1
,
a
figure that could reach 6.2 million tons by 2020.  In the 
absence of an active and strategic role at the central government level, most municipalities equate solid 
waste management (SWM) only with the removal of waste from visible public areas. Waste disposal in 
1
MSW includes non-hazardous waste generated in households, commercial and business establishments, institutions and light 
industrial process wastes
.
Page  2
sanitary landfills has been entirely neglected by municipalities, and waste is generally disposed in open 
dumps. 
 
Environmental degradation, which the Mediterranean Environment Technical Assistance Program 
(METAP) has estimated costs at least 3.7% of GDP (2003), is a s
ignificant hindrance to Morocco’s 
development
,
as it impacts the health of citizens and environmental resources and interferes with 
Moroccan integration into the environmentally conscious EU and US markets.  Litter and accumulations 
of solid waste along ro
adsides and channels jeopardize the country’s high tourism potential. The 
contribution of poor solid waste management to the cost of environmental degradation is estimated at 
around DH 1.7 billion per year (or 0.5% of GDP), one of the highest levels in the Middle East and North 
Africa region (0.2 % in Egypt and 0.1 % in Algeria, Lebanon, Syria and Tunisia). 
 
Major issues and challenges faced in the sector include:
 (i) a weak legal and institutional framework, 
which constrains effective governance of the sector; (ii) poor cost effectiveness of services; with doubtful 
long-term financial sustainability of the sector; (iii) the urgent need for integrated and modernized solid 
waste management systems, which will mitigate negative economic, environmental, and social impacts of 
the existing systems; and (iv) missed opportunities available under international climate change 
mechanisms i.e. Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), while supporting the global effort in climate 
change mitigation. 
 
Due to its impacts on the quality of life, public health, environmental and natural resources, and vital 
economic activities such as tourism, SWM is now recognized as a top priority by the Government.
 The 
Government has taken two key and significant first steps toward the reform of SWM.  First, the Solid 
Waste Management Law 28-00 was passed in November, 2006.  Second, it has developed and approved 
the 
Programme National de Gestion des Déchets Ménagers 
(PNDM 
–
the National Solid Waste 
Program), which is a 15-year, 3-phase program launched in 2008.  The PNDM was formally adopted by 
the newly appointed Government in its program announced in October 2007 and sets out, among other 
objectives, service and disposal standards for urban areas, quantitative goals for collection coverage (90% 
by 2021), the introduction of sanitary landfills (100% of urban areas equipped by 2021), and the closure 
and rehabilitation of 300 existing open dumps as well as the promotion of solid waste reduction, recovery 
and valorization.  
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed DPL, the first in a programmatic series of two single-tranche DPLs (the DPL program), is 
designed to provide budget support and policy advice for the implementation of a national program for 
the reform of the solid waste sector in Morocco. The Government program of reform and the DPL 
operation aim at improving the economic, environmental and social performance of the solid waste sector 
in Morocco.  The specific development objective is to enact policy measures conducive to:  
(i) 
Enhance the governance of the sector through additional legal, regulatory, and institutional 
measures, designed to establish a clear framework for the sector, eliminating overlap and/or 
holes in the policy-making, regulatory, and operational structure; 
(ii) 
Improve the sustainability of the sector through the introduction of financial mechanisms and 
incentives for municipalities designed to support the sustainability of investments and 
services; and 
(iii) 
Mainstream social and environmental considerations into the planning, implementation, and 
operations of solid waste services and investments. 
Page  3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for Bank support to the solid waste reform program is predicated on the importance of this 
sector in terms of environmental and social concerns of the sector, and the threat they represent for 
sustainable development in Morocco. The Government of Morocco requested support from the Bank in 
the light of recent policy developments in this sector, as it has become increasingly clear that managing 
municipal wast
e
under the “business as usual” approach would not only negatively affect the quality of 
life, public health, and environmental and natural resources but would also jeopardize the economic and 
social development. 
 
Bank support is deemed necessary at this junction to help the Government in the process of promoting an 
enabling environment for the solid waste sector, particularly towards improving its financial, 
environmental and social performance. The proposed support builds upon the policy dialogue and 
advisory role the Bank has played in the environment/solid waste sector over the last five years, 
particularly under METAP.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed operation is a The proposed operation is the first DPL in a programmatic series of up to two 
single-tranche DPLs Development Policy Loan (DPL) in an amount of US$80 million.  The DPL will be 
disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness.  The DPL is designed to provide budget support and to 
sustain the implementation of the reform program in the solid waste sector. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be the loan recipient. Day-to-day responsibility for reform 
program coordination and monitoring will rest with a Steering Committee (SC) led by the Ministry of 
General Economic Affairs and involving representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the 
Ministry of Interior, the Secretariat d’Etat of Water and Environment , and the Fonds de l’Equipment 
Communal. The SC will ensure progress reporting and schedule management, action documentation, 
inter-ministerial coordination, and proactive corrective action. The SC will also be responsible for 
communication with the Bank supervision team.  
 
The coordination among key players on the ground as well as monitoring and evaluation of the reform 
outcomes will rest with the National Committee of the PNDM, headed by the Secretaire Géneral du 
Department de l’Environment and including MEF, MoI, and the FEC.   
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The higher-level objective of the program is to improve the financial, environmental and social 
performance of the solid waste sector in Morocco.  The overall benefits expected from this operation are 
related to the mitigation of the political, environmental, social and economic impacts of the existing 
municipal solid waste management system. The Government is committed to addressing these impacts as 
part of its policies to improve the governance and the performance of the sector as well as the 
sustainability of related services in urban areas, and the Loan is expected to provide support to a coherent 
implementation of the necessary reforms.  
Page  4
The specific benefits expected from the implementation of the reform program and from the PNDM 
supported by this operation are: a) improved environmental and social conditions which would result 
from the progressive elimination of the existing dumpsites and construction of sanitary landfills; b) 
enhanced access to waste collection services for the urban poor; c) reduced cost of waste landfilling 
resulting from more cost-effective planning regulations and standards; d) more efficient use of resources 
allocated to the solid waste sector and better targeted public subsidies to the sector; and  d) growth and 
job creation resulting from the creation of small and medium enterprises, the promotion of recycling and 
integrating informal actors such as wastepickers.   
 
There are three key risks associated with the program. 
Macroeconomic risks:
 Although Morocco 
macroeconomic stance appears to be well positioned to sustain the negative impact of the ongoing 
financial crisis, further deterioration in the external economic environment may however have additional 
negative consequences for the Moroccan economy. The Government is aware of such risk and in order to 
continue to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment is closely monitoring the situation in 
coordination with external partners. 
Commitments to the reform and implementation capacity risks:
 
(i) 
Weakening of political consensus and commitment for solid waste reforms which may delay or impact 
the effective implementation of the program is mitigated by a strong and continuous cross-sector dialogue 
and consultation through the established National Commission for the Program.  (ii) Weak capacity to 
implement complex sector
 reforms at the municipal level may affect the program’s results on the ground. 
This risk is mitigated by (a) wide awareness and communication programs on the reform agenda; (b) 
strengthening of technical and financial capacity of municipalities as a priority of the PNDM; and (c) 
coordinating with other active donors in solid waste sector to reinforce potential synergies between the 
different programs. 
Social acceptance risks:
 Lack of social acceptance of reforms by the public including 
the waste pickers and service users. This is being mitigated respectively through the implementation of a 
social inclusion program targeting wastepickers and through increasing accountability of the service 
providers for improved quality
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The Government’s reform program aims to, 
inter alia
,
support the implementation of environmentally 
and social sound disposal facilities and improve the social and working conditions of wastepickers.  
Specific measures of the reform program related to social and environmental considerations in the solid 
waste sector include: 
 
·
Enactment of EIA-related decrees toward effective implementation of the EIA Law. 
·
Operationalization of the EIA system as whole through: (i) the preparation of a comprehensive EIA 
operational manual detailing steps and procedures for  EIA preparation, review and approval; and (ii) 
the provision of training and capacity building on EIA preparation and review. 
·
Preparation and implementation of an action plan to improve social performance of solid waste 
management:
 
Implementation of this plan has been agreed based on the findings of Phase 1 of a 
Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) conducted during preparation of the present operation. 
The plan will include: (a) providing wastepickers access to health care; (b) in-depth consultations by 
the municipalities with wastepickers and discussion of options for their reemployment, possibly by 
private SWM operators ; and (c) involving local NGOs, through a call for proposals, which will work 
closely with the wastepickers, ensuring that they receive appropriate health and hygiene services, 
assisting in their finding alternative employment, and monitoring the implementation and follow-up 
of the PSIA recommendations. 
 
Page  5
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jaafar Sadok Friaa 
Title: Sr Environmental Spec. 
Tel: + 1202 473 7124 
Fax: +1202 477 1609 
Email: jsfriaa@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
