Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3573 
Operation Name 
MA-SOLID WASTE SECTOR DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Solid waste management (100%) 
Project ID 
P104937 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances   
Avenue Mohamed V- Quartier Administratif 
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc 
Tel. : (212-37) 76 31 71 ; 76 38 47 
Fax : (212-37) 76 15 75
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 14, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Most Moroccan cities are characterized by high population densities and rapid growth and suffer 
from several forms of environmental degradation.  Out of a total population of 30 million, 18 million live 
in urban areas.  With the urban population growing at 2.85% and an increase in per capita consumption, 
municipal solid waste management has become one of the most serious environmental concerns in urban 
areas, especially in view of its adverse effects on quality of life, human health, natural resources and 
environment, and economic and social development.  
 
2. 
Environmental degradation, which a preliminary METAP estimate costs at 3.7% of GDP (2003), 
is a significant hindrance to Morocco’s development, as it impacts the health of Moroccan citizens and 
country environmental resources, interferes with Moroccan integration into the environmentally 
conscious EU and USA markets, and the unsightly litter and accumulations of solid waste along roadsides 
and channels jeopardize the country’s high tourism potential.  Poor solid waste management’s 
contribution to the cost of environmental degradation is estimated at around DH 1.7 billion per year (or 
0.5% of GDP), one of the highest levels in the MNA region. 
 
3. 
Morocco’s municipal solid waste services continue to be conceived and defined only in terms of 
“cleansing” with the main focus on waste collection and limited attention and resource allocation to waste 
disposal, which leads to significant major environmental and social impacts. 
 
Currently, Morocco 
produces about 4.7 million tons of municipal waste per year and could reach 6.2 million tons in 2020.  In 
the absence of active role and strategic guidance at government level, most municipalities equate solid 
waste management (SWM) only with the removal of wastes from visible public areas because of the 
direct political gains.  However, waste disposal in sanitary landfills has been completely neglected by 
municipalities, and waste has been disposed in open dumps far from public sight. 
 
4. 
In December 2006, Morocco enacted its first law on solid waste management, as well as laws on 
environmental protection and Environmental Impact Assessments.  But executive regulations remain to 
be adopted.  As a result, monitoring, enforcement and compliance are still absent and are relying 
unsustainably on an ad hoc system.  Thus, there is an immediate need for the preparation and approval by 
the Government of a relevant set of regulations including those related to: (i) regional and local planning 
tools for solid waste management; (ii) norms and standards for waste treatment and land filling; (iii) cost 
Page  2
Morocco 
- 2 - 
Concept Program Document 
Solid Waste Management DPL 
 
January 2008 
recovery instruments such as solid waste fees (
redevance des déchets
)
as well as other economic 
instruments; and (iv) modalities for monitoring and supervision of waste services at national, regional and 
municipal levels.   
 
5. 
Furthermore, Morocco, as a developing country (non-Annex B Party) that has ratified the Kyoto 
Protocol in 2002 is eligible to participate in the flexible mechanisms enabled under the Kyoto Protocol, 
such as the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).  Waste disposed in landfills generates gases typically 
composed of 50% methane (GHG) that can be captured and flared or used to produce electricity.  Those 
Emission Reductions can be sold to Part 1 country (essentially developed countries except the US and 
Canada) entities to generate revenue for the improvement of current SWM practices.  There is at present 
no LFG capture in place in Morocco, which results not only in global environmental impacts linked to the 
emission of greenhouse gases, but also in financial losses, in terms of foregone revenues from the sale of 
carbon emissions reductions under the CDM.  
 
6. 
The Government has recently undertaken vigorous actions toward the development and the 
reform of solid waste sector, including the preparation of an ambitious DH 37 billion National Program 
on Municipal Solid Wa
ste (NSWMP) 
that covers a wide range of institutional, financial, environmental 
and social upgrading actions over the next 15 years (2007-2021) in order to achieve an acceptable 
coverage of sustainable municipal solid waste services in all urban areas. 
 
7. 
The rationale for Bank support to the solid waste reform program is predicated on the importance 
of this sector in term of investment needs, the related environmental and social aspects, and the threat 
they represent for sustainable development in Morocco. Bank support is critically needed to help the 
Government guide the process of promoting an enabling environment for the solid waste sector 
particularly towards improving its economic, environmental and social performance. Support would 
continue and build upon the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank has played in the 
environment/solid waste sector over the last five years particularly under METAP.  
 
8. 
The involvement of the Bank Group has built unprecedented consensus between the various 
government agencies involved in solid waste sector policy formulation and implementation. As each of 
the partners may not have the ability to address the related sector structural issues on its own because of 
their different mandate, vision, capacity and agenda, Bank involvement in policy dialogue will help in 
formulating a common vision and will help catalyze efforts to design and implement sector reforms.  The 
proposed DPL operation will also secure a multi-year government commitment to SWM reform in a 
context where the central government must take account of the budgetary implications of the PNDM and 
the risks of political resistance from municipalities.  
 
9. 
Additionally, the Bank would contribute best practice expertise and world-wide experience in 
solid waste sector policies, facilitate mainstreaming of environmental and social aspects, and help define 
financial mechanisms for the implementation of the reform agenda. The Loan would also provide a strong 
confidence-building signal to the solid waste market that should help 
minimize the private investor’s 
perception of risks and enhance the willingness of the donor community to support the reform program as 
well as enhanced private sector participation.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
10. 
The objective of the proposed operation is to improve the environmental and financial 
sustainability and cost-effectiveness of solid waste management in Morocco.  More specifically, the 
proposed operation will target the progressive establishment of an integrated SWM system toward 
reaching the following outcomes: 
Page  3
Morocco 
- 3 - 
Concept Program Document 
Solid Waste Management DPL 
 
January 2008 
·
Upstream, the institutional and legal sustainability of the SWM sector is strengthened;  
·
Downstream, an operational system of financial incentives, focusing on the quality of the 
economic and technical performance of SWM services (from collection to disposal/treatment) is 
put in place; and 
·
Environment and social considerations in the SWM including a programmatic approach for 
carbon finance (under the new CPF) are mainstreamed. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
11. 
The SWM DPL will be articulated around the following three SWM sector reform priorities: 
governance of the sector, sustainability of the services and mitigation of environmental and social 
impacts. Based on the dialogue with country as well as the assessment of the existing situation, conducted 
during the last few months, pre-identified possible measures to be engaged in the short term for each of 
those sector reform priorities are delineated below. 
 
¾
Improving governance of the Sector: 
o
Preparation and approval by the Government of a series of regulations including those 
related to EIA and SW Laws, namely establishing an effective EIA system in the waste 
management sector, developing standards and norms for sanitary landfills, elaborating 
strategic and regional planning tools for SWM at a national and local levels, respectively 
and introducing gradually waste management fees in selected cities. 
o
Preparation and approval of executive regulations and other regulatory instruments 
toward the effective implementation of the recently approved delegated services law as 
applied in the solid waste sector. 
o
Formal establishment of a Technical Committee (including representatives from the 
MoF, MoI and MoE) for approval of targeted subsidies to municipalities under the 
PNDM.
 
o
Preparation and approval by the Steering Committee of the Operational Manual for the 
implementation, M&E of the PNDM.
 
o
Development of an Information System as well as a benchmarking system as a tool for 
decision making, monitoring and evaluation of SWM operations.
 
o
Elaboration of a communication and awareness strategy with NGO involvement.
 
o
Elaboration of a municipal capacity-strengthening program in solid waste and financial 
management as a priority of the PNDM. 
 
¾
Promoting the sustainability of the Services 
o
Annual commitment of the GOM for making available state budget support for the 
implementation of the PNDM at level of 300 million DH for the next five years. 
o
Introduction of new/updated fiscal/para-fiscal instruments to secure stable resources for 
SWM systems (packaging tax, 
redevance
,
CDM revenues). 
o
Elaboration of an Action Plan for improving the private sector participation in SWM 
services.
 
o
Introduction of performance-
based “
Contrat Programme
”
between the Municipalities and 
the Government (including provisions and indicators to measure financial and technical 
performances).
 
¾
Mitigating Environmental and Social Impacts 
o
Elaboration of Terms of Reference for EIA related to SWM projects including provisions 
regarding social and environmental aspects.
 
Page  4
Morocco 
- 4 - 
Concept Program Document 
Solid Waste Management DPL 
 
January 2008 
o
Integration of social and environmental best practice into the contracts with private 
operators.
 
o
Design of a social inclusion program for waste pickers and application of such program 
in selected cities.
 
o
Design and develop a programmatic CDM project in solid waste sector.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
12. 
The accompanying measures built in the tentative reform program address adequately the 
environmental and safeguards implications of the reform program. Moreover, it is planned to conduct, in 
parallel with the implementation of the proposed DPL, a "use of country system" assessment in 
compliance with OP 4.00, which would ensure a proper level of due diligence in relation with the 
proposed operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Financing Plan (US$m.) 
Source Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Borrower 0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
IBRD/IDA 0.00 
80.00 
80.00 
Others 0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
80.00 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jaafar Sadok Friaa 
Title: Task Team Leader 
Tel: (202) 473-7124 
Fax: (202) 614-4021+ 
Email: 
jsfriaa@worldbank.org
Page  5
Morocco 
- 5 - 
Concept Program Document 
Solid Waste Management DPL 
 
January 2008 
P:\MOROCCO\SD\104937\prep\Morocco- SW DPL. PID -Final.doc 
01/14/2008 3:17:00 PM
 
