                                                                                                            96347
Morocco: Municipal Solid Waste Sector
                                                                                                       March 30, 2011




 Institutional Development of the Municipal Solid Waste Sector in
 Morocco


Overview
In 2008, the World Bank began working with the Government of Morocco on a sweeping
program to help deliver better solid waste management services, helping around 80
municipalities improve their collection services and upgrade their landfills. This joint effort has
also pioneered an innovative national carbon finance program, boosted the participation of the
private sector, and provided training to 1,600 local managers, improving the reach and quality
of solid waste collection services and contributing to the effort to mitigate climate change
effects.



Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Out of a total Moroccan population of 30 million,
18 million live in urban areas. Moroccan cities
are characterized by high population densities
and rapid growth. These cities suffer from
several forms of environmental degradation,
including the effects of poor management of
municipal solid waste (MSW). The cost of the
environmental degradation due to solid waste
was estimated at 0.5 percent of gross domestic
product (GDP) in 2003 (among the highest in
the Middle East, North Africa region).

In 2008, Morocco produced about 5 million tons
of MSW per year and it is expected to reach 6.2 million in            More Results
2020. Prior to the reform initiative, only 70 percent of urban
MSW was collected and less than 10 percent of collected
waste was being disposed of in an environmentally and
socially acceptable manner. There were 300 uncontrolled
dumpsites, and about 3,500 waste-pickers, of which 10
percent were children, were living on and around these open
                                                                      30%
                                                                      The share of properly disposed
dumpsites.                                                            MSW increased from 10 percent
                                                                      to 30 percent

Major issues and challenges in the sector prior to formulation
of the World Bank-supported reform program included:

       Poor sector policy, focused mainly on "cleanliness"
       with very limited attention to waste disposal and
                                                                      80%
                                                                      Government financial allowance
       treatment ;                                                    to the sector increased by 80
                                                                      percent between 2008 and 2011
      Weak legal and institutional framework, which
      constrained effective strategic planning and
      governance ;
                                                                 MORE INFO

      Ad-hoc fiscal transfers to municipalities and uncertain      Morocco website
      financial sustainability ;                                   Municipal Solid Waste Sector
                                                                   Development Policy Loan: First l
      Poor cost effectiveness of public-private partnerships,      Second
      mainly due to limited competition, lack of
                                                                   Data and Statistics
      transparency, and poor accountability ; and

      Huge impacts on quality of life, public health,
      environment, and social and economic development.



Approach
The World Bank has been supporting Morocco’s efforts to improve economic, environmental,
and social performance of MSW, building on a solid engagement with the Government over the
past five years. World Bank support to the implementation of the sector reform has been
anchored on an innovative and programmatic approach that has gone through successive
stages.
A first World Bank Development Policy Loan focused on establishing a national framework to
implement a national policy and securing continued engagement of all concerned ministries
and national agencies. The second loan focused more closely on the policy actions needed to
reach the local level, where actual implementation of the MSW policy, as well as resulting
outcomes, materialize.

Results

      The program has supported about 80 Municipalities, representing more than 50% of
      urban population in Morocco, to improve their collection services and upgrade their
      landfills.

      The share of properly disposed MSW increased from 10 percent to 30 percent.

      Government financial allowance to the sector increased by 80 percent between 2008
      and 2011.

      Private sector now provides cleaning and garbage collection services to about 60
      percent of the urban population compared to about 15 percent before the project.

      A multi-year training plan reached more than 1,600 local managers.

      An innovative carbon finance program at the national level is being designed to help
      local authorities mobilize additional financial resources, with potential revenues of
      approximately US$90 million over the next 10 years.

In parallel, the program has promoted the early and systematic consideration of social
concerns at all levels of the decision making chain for SWM modernization: Waste pickers
inclusion initiatives are underway in Tangier, Casablanca Rabat and Agadir. Rabat waste
pickers inclusion initiative is the most advanced one and it covers 130 pickers.


Partners
World Bank support to the MSW sector in Morocco has been implemented in close
collaboration with other partners. Although there have been no co-financiers so far, the World
Bank has worked very closely with other donors involved in MSW in Morocco, including the
United Nations Development Programme, and Germany’s GTZ and KfW, which have provided
coordinated technical support. At the national level, the World Bank has worked closely with
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Interior, and Fonds
d’Equipment Communal, a public development bank providing financial support (loans) to
Municipalities’ infrastructure projects.

Bank financing
Through these two Development Policy Loans totaling US$271.3 million, the World Bank has
established itself as a valued interlocutor in the MSW sector in Morocco. Close dialogue with
concerned partners and stakeholders since the early stage of design and inclusive consultation
with beneficiaries have been the cornerstones to ensure success of this program.

Voices


     Now it is better, trash used to be dumped everywhere, now
   there are rules.
                              — Hanan, Oum Azza Cooperative Worker




     This waste plant respects the environment and puts no
   pollution in the environment, meaning that…the liquid wastes
   are prevented from entering the soil and are treated by inverse
   osmosis.  
                                  — Gerard Prenant, Director, TEODEM



Toward the Future
Consequent to the successful support provided by the World Bank, the Government of
Morocco has already requested Bank technical and financial support for further engagement to
promote sector reform. Key topic for such support would include: long-term financial
sustainability at municipal level; environmental supervision, monitoring and control; social
dimension and waste valorization; and strengthened local project preparation and management
capacity.
