Report No. 660a-ME
Appraisal of Integrated
Rural Development Project - Pider
Mexico
April 16, 1975
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. the Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUREENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          = Yex$12-5
Mex*i         = us$0.08
Mex$l million = US$80,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            =2.47 acres = 10,000 m2
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)               = 0.26 gallons
1,000 kg   1 metric ton  = 0.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANAGRO           - National Bank for Agriculture and Livestock
Banco Agricola   - National Bank for Agricultural Credit
Banco Ejidal      - National Bank for Ejidal Credit
BANXICO           - Bank of Mexico
CAPFCE            - Administrative Committee of the Federal Program
for Construction of Schools
CFE               - Federal Commission for Electricity
CIDER             - Research Center for Rural Development
CNIZA             - Arid Zones Commission
CONASUPO         - National Company for Popular Subsistence
FONDO             - Guarantee Fund for Development of Agriculture,
Livestock and Aviculture
Hacienda          - Ministry of Finance
IDB              - Inter-American Development Bank
INI              - National Institute for Indian Affairs
INIA             - National Institute for Agricultural Research
INIP             - National Institute for Cattle Research
NAFIN             - National Financiera
Patrimonio        - Secretariat of National Patrimony
PIDER             - Investment Program for Rural Development
PLAMEPA           - Plan for Parcel Improvement
SAG               - Secretariat of Agriculture and Cattle
SOFE              - Sub-Department of the Ejidal Development Office
SOP               - Secretariat of Public Works
SRA               - Secretariat  of Land Reform
SRH               - Secretariat of Water Resources
SSA               - Secretariat of Health and Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



TEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER
Table of Contents                           Page
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                 i-iv
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                         1
II. BACKGROUND
A.  Rural Development                                              1
B.  Rural Development Strategies in Mexico                         3
Functional Programs                                      3
PIDER                                                    3
C.  Supporting Services in the Rural Areas                         5
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Strategy                                        6
B.  Brief Description                                              7
C.  Detailed Features                                              8
Directly Productive Activities                          11
Productive Support Activities                           13
Social Infrastructure                                  16
D.  Cost Estimates                                                17
E.  Financing                                                     18
F.  Disbursements                                                 20
G.  Procurement                                                   20
H.  Accounts, Monitoring and Auditing                             21
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Federal Level                                                 22
B.  State Level                                                   22
C.  Village/Ejido Level                                           23
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.  Production, Yields and Marketable Surplus                     24
B.  Markets and Prices                                            25
C.  Producer Income and Benefits                                  25
D.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Burden                               26
E.  Ecological and External Effects                               27
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Economic Rate of Return                                       28
B.  Project Risks                                                 29
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                                                      31
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission, which visited
Mexico in June-July 1974 composed of A. Schumacher, C. Carnemark, M. Del Buono,
J.L. Forcina, J.P. Jallade, U. Kuffner, P. McCarthy, B. Mitchell, and P. Scherer
of the Bank, and E. Cifuentes, C. Chisholm, R. Anson and E. Shearer (Consultants).
Messrs. A. Schumacher, B. Thoolen, C. Koch-Weser and M. Del Buono of the Bank
and C. Chisholm and C. Pineo (Consultants) visited Mexico in October and
December 1974, and March 1975 on follow-up missions.



ANNEXES
1.  Micro-Region Summaries
a. Zacapoaxtla (Temperate)
b. Sur de Nuevo Le6n (Arid)
c. Sinaloa (Transition)
d. Yucatan (Tropical)
e. Aguascalientes (Semi-arid)
f. Guanajuato (Semi-arid)
2. Micro-Region Selection Criteria
3. Sector Summaries
a. Irrigation
be Soil and Water Conservation
co Feeder Roads
d.  Marketing and the Role of CONASUPO
es  Department of Agrarian Reform (DAAC)
f. Extension and Field Demonstration
g. Education
h. Health
i. Rural Electrification
J. Water Supply and Sanitation
k. Nutrition
1. Institute for Indian Affairs (INI)
m. Commission for Fruit Development
n.  Livestock
4. Project Cost Fstimates and Investment Phasing
5. Disbursement Estimates
6. Organization and Management of the PIDER Program
7. Evaluation
8. Assumptions on Economic and Financial Analyses
9e Fiscal Burden and Cost Recovery
MAP - Micro-Region Locations



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The proposed project is part of a national program intended
to raise the productive capacity of the rural poor.   From 1950 to 1970
Mexico achieved an average 5% annual growth of agricultural production -
the highest in Latin America.   The major contributions to this growth
came from the development of irrigated agriculture and larger farms in
the favorable rainfall areas.   Agricultural investment and services were
largely concentrated on these regions.   As a result, a considerable
number of small farmers, beneficiaries of earlier land reform programs,
still live in rural areas at subsistence income levels - estimated below
US$100 per capita annually. In the past the potential of these small
farmers to develop their holdings was hampered by lack of access to
credit, inputs, extension, all-weather roads and good marketing facilities.
Their situation was further aggravated by the absence of education, health
and other amenities, such as safe supplies of drinking water.
2.        To redress this situation, the Government has organized a program
to alleviate rural poverty. In 1972, the Ministry of the Presidency
developed federal and state administrative machinery PIDER 1/ to integrate
and expand rural development activities among all government agencies
operating in rural areas.   Criteria were established for the selection of
micro-regions and development of micro-region plans encompassing the poorest
rural areas throughout the country 2/.   During 1973 nnd 1974 sueh develop-
ment plans were prepared for 45 micro-regions.
3.        In 1973 and 1974, the Government invested US$133 million in the
initial stages of the development of these 45 micro-regions.   Another
US$450 million would be required for their completion during the 1975-1978
period.   In addition, the Government expects to program US$650 million
for the development of an additional 55 micro-regions.   Some five million
poor rural people would benefit when the 100 micro-region program is
complete.   While the Government would be able to finance a significant
portion of this large program, external finance would be required to carry
out the full program.
1/  Investment Program for Rural Development.
2/ Micro-regions comprise an average of 50,000 poor persons (per capita
incomes averaging below US$100) located in two to seven contiguous
rural municipalities within a state.   They are selected using criteria
that balance poverty levels with potential for income increasing
productive activities (Annex 2).



- L1 -
4.        The Project would help finance programmed expenditures in 30
micro-regions. Each micro-region plan has been closely tailored by PIDER
to address the development bottlenecks paxticular to that region. The
Project would support the completion of reprogrammed investment plans in
15 micro-regions initiated in 1973 and assist development of another
15 micro-regions which were programmed more recently. Total project cost
for these 30 micro-regions is estimated at US$295 million. A loan of
US$110 million would cover 37% of total project cost and would finance
US$47 million of estimated foreign exchange costs and US$63 million of
local currency costs. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would
provide parallel financing for about another 15 micro-regions. The major
part (66%) of the Project would be channeled into productive investments
in livestock, irrigation, fruit production, soil and water conservation,
and  associated  farm  development  credit. To support  this
\ investment, the loan would provide for the development of feeder roads,
markets, extension, electrification,- agricultural research and farmer train-
ing (22%). Investment in social infrastructure (12% of Project) would
include health, primary education and drinking water facilities, and provide
materials for self-help projects. The evaluation component of the Project
would include support for project evaluation through a new Center for
Research in Rural Development (CIDER).
5.        The Project would provide on-farm development credit which would
be channeled through the existing agricultural credit system. Medium- and
long-term development loans to small farmers would carry the terms and
rates of interest agreed for other agricultural credit projects supported
by the IBRD (currently 7.6% interest). Short-term production credit would
carry an interest rate of 12%. The Guarantee Loan Fund of the Bank of
Mexico would operate the on-lending mechanisms through public and private
participating banks in accordance with procedures established under the
agricultural credit loans supported by the IBRD.
6.        Each micro-region plan would be submitted to IBRD for approval
prior to disbursement of loan proceeds. Fifty percent (15 micro-regions)
of the Project has been appraised, with the remaining 15 micro-region
programs to be submitted before June 30, 1975 for detailed individual
reviews prior to disbursement authorization. Disbursement would be against
actual expenditure on eligible items. International competitive bidding
would be carried out on single contracts over US$250,000. Local competitive
bidding, negotiated contracts and force account would be applied for
individual works below this amount in accordance with established government
procedures.



- iii -
7.        The Project would be carried out by some 14 federal and state
agencies.   At the federal level, a Coordinating Committee (serviced by
a 45-person Technical Secretariat) of participating agencies meets monthly
under the chairmanship of the Presidency to set policy, approve micro-
region plans and resolve major execution problems.   A similar Committee
(also serviced by technical staff) is formed within each state having one
or more ongoing micro-region development programs.   Coordination at the
local level is focused on the mayors of municipalities and community
leaders.
8.        The Project would benefit areas with a total rural population of
about 1.5 million.   Beneficiaries targeted for Project support would have
family incomes ranging from US$250 to US$750 placing them in the lower 50%
of incomes in the rural sector and the lowest 20% of the total population.
PIDER selection criteria, when applied to their full 100 micro-region develop-
ment program, would include areas containing about 40% (5 million) of the  '
poorest 12 million persons living in the rural areas. In this Project,
about 120,000 farmers (750,000 people) would be expected to achieve a near
doubling of real income over a period of eight years if all goes as planned.
For those farmers benefiting from the 30,000 ha of irrigation, it is
expected that incomes will triple from present levels to full development.
Furthermore, some 350,000 people would have access to improved rural infra-
structure.   Under the Project,about 84,000 man-years of temporary labor
and 30,000 man-years of permanent labor would be created.   Main annual
production increases resulting from Project investment would be in maize
(200,000 tons), beans (40,000 tons), beef (25,000 tons), honey (200 tons)
and fruit and vegetables (10,000 tons). About half of the increment of
maize and bean production would be consumed by the producers, the remainder
being marketed for internal consumption in Mexico. Typical ejido and village
development models in representative micro-regions show economic rates of
return on productive investments averaging 16%, with a variation from 11% to
23%.   Higher economic returns may be achieved in regions of more substantial
productive possibilities especially where based on irrigation.   Financial
rates of return on directly productive activities average 22%, varying from 15%
to 37%.   Social infrastructure such as health centers, schools and drinking
water would improve basic literacy and health standards, especially in
relation to water borne bacteria.   Beneficiaries would contribute 20% of
installation costs of electrification and 15% to drinking water supplies,
and would meet all operation and maintenance costs.  Contributions in cash,
labor or kind would be made toward the costs of health and education facilities.
9.        The Project has risks.   First, while on average the estimated
rates of return at micro-region level embody expectations about final out-
comes that are reasonable and realistic, nevertheless the calibre of local
leadership and staff involved under the program will bear importantly on
these outcomes.   It would be unrealistic to suppose that staff, leadership



- iv -
and management quality will be uniform.   In some regions results may
be less than expected, while in others better than anticipated results
should be achieved.   Second, while two-thirds of the micro-regions would
be in the higher rainfall areas (over 750 mm annually), the remaining
third would be located in areas with less rain.   In these latter areas,
the introduction of irrigation, pasture improvement and water conservation
works would be emphasized to reduce farmer risks.   However, there is some
uncertainty as to farmer responses to new technical packages for improving
rainfed maize and bean production in these less favored areas,
Improved field demonstration closely tied with deepened extension efforts
under the Project would be emphasized to minimize this uncertainty.
The Government has shown a high degree of flexibility in the execution of
the program and the recently established research center (CIDER) will
undertake a substantial and continuing evaluation effort as a basis for
timely adaptation of recommended and tested practices to small farmers'
needs.   Also, the Project would emphasize self-help activities, the
creation of community-based users' associations and the development of
local leadership capabilities in order to improve the probability that
the mix of Project investments and services would eventually lead tc a
self-sustaining development momentum at the local level.
10.       In conclusion, the PIDER project represents a major commitment
by Mexico to raise levels of living among a relatively large number of
rural poor.   The PIDER program now has a two and one-half year history.
Major new thrusts in the program towards increasing small farmer productivity
have been initiated, with the result that PIDER has taken the lead in generat-
ing major improvements in the key agencies dealing with the rural poor,
especially the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock.   PIDER, as well
as the other river basin and functional programs directed towards the
rural poor, continue to receive strong political commitment.



I1EXICC
INTEGRATED RUlRAL DEVELOPMENT PROjECT - PIDER
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Government of Mexico is placing high priority on raising
the productive capacity of its 12 million rural poor (per capita incomes
of less than US$100), who make up over 50% cf the rural population and
20% of the total population.   Incomes of the rural population are much
lower than those of the urban sector.   The Government is committed to
narrowing this gap.
1.02        Particular emphasis is being placed on developing regions
containing substantial numbers of poorer farmers, regions identified as
having good potential for raising farmer incomes.   To undertake this task,
Mexico has expanded its existing functional rural development activities
such as credit, feeder roads and small-scale irrigation and, at the same
time, has devised a new micro-region program designed to integrate and
focus agency activities on carefully targeted areas of rural poverty.
This latter program, called PIDER (Investment Program for Rural Development),
was created in 1972 to facilitate this coordinated strategy in 100 micro-
regions. Forty-five of these micro-regions, already identified, are now
in operation.
1.03        The Government has requested IBRD and IDB financial assistance
to help implement and expand this PIDER program.   In 1973 and 1,074, project
preparation was assisted by an extensive series of visits from Bank staff
and consultants.   During the project preparation and appraisal process,
emphasis was placed on productive measures, particularly irrigation; credit
provision and improved extension services were strengthened; emphasis was
also placed on micro-region selection criteria, the program's administrative
machinery and the mechanism for monitoring and evaluation.   Appraisal was
undertaken in June/July 1974.
1.04        Fourteen IBRD projects totalling US$551 million have been
previously approved for agricultural and rural development projects in Mexico.
Recently a. US$50 million loan (1053-ME) was approved for a rural development
proJect in the Papaloapan River Basin. The bulk of these loans have been for
the development of irrigation (72%) and the provision of agricultural credit
(28%). JPerformance under these projects has been generally satisfactory.
II. BACKGROUND
A, Rural Development
2.01        Modern rural development in Mexico dates to the land reform
begun in 1917.   This reform was started with the
redistribution of land rights.   However, major efforts at supporting



- 2 -
this redistribution were not made until the Cardenas period (1935-1941)
when an extensive land redistribution program was carried out and agricul-
tural input and credit needs of ejidatarios 1/ began to be recognized. The
Bank Ejidal was created during this period.   Governments following
Cardenas pursued a different strategy, concentrating on industrialization
and development of large-scale farming under irrigation.   This policy
resulted in one of the highest rates of sustained growth of agricultural
production in Latin America (an average of 5% per year from 1950 to 1970),
but income inequalities appear to have widened as the economy was unable to
provide employment for the poorer segments of the rural population, espe-
cially those living in rainfed agricultural areas.
2.02        Rural Population.  The rural population (about 20 million) of
Mexico comprises three main groups: ejidatarios, private farmers and the
landless. There are about 1.5 million ejidatario families farming 22,500
ejidos, about 1.2 million privately owned farms and 1.2 million landless
families. The population has grown so rapidly in the face of limited land
resources that fully one-half of the agricultural labor force is now landless,
many of them sons of peasants with rights in ejidos too small to provide a
living.
2.03        Income.  Since 1960, Mexico-s overall economic performance has
been matched by few developing countries.  GDP has grown at an average annual
rate of about 7.0% in real terms. However, the benefits of this growth have
been unequally distributed. In mid-1973 the average family income was esti-
mated at US$2,700.  However, some 2 million families (over 50% of the rural
population and 20% of the total population) had average incomes of less than
US$800 per family. The Government estimates that an income equivalent to
US$960 provides the minimum acceptable living standard for Mexican families
in the rural areas.
2.04        Employment.  All employment estimates are tentative.  In the
non-irrigated rural areas, 18% of the labor force cannot find employment at
prevailing rural wages and 44% cannot find more than three months employment.
Irrigated agriculture is considered 2./ the most effective permanent employment-
generating instrument in agriculture, with 1 ha of irrigated agriculture
providing about 8 man-months of employment compared to less than 1 man-month
per ha on a non-irrigated farm taken on an annual basis.
1/  The term "ejido" is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village
"common". In present Mexican law, the ejido is basically a group of
families with joint - and thus inalienable - tenure rights to land.
The head of such a family is called an ejidatario.
2/ Based on Presidency estimates in the Central Plateau area.



2.05      Rural Infrastructure.  These conditions are further exacerbated
by the lack of infrastructure and basic services. In the poorer rural
areas, there are only 55 medical practitioners per 100,000 of population
(77 is the national average); 24% of houses have access to pure drinking
water (61% nationally); and only 55% of children in the 6-14 years age
group are enrolled at school (76% nationally).
B. Rural Development Strategies in Mexico
2.06      Thus the Mexican Government has organized itself through both
spatial (river basin and micro-region) and functional (credit, extension,
irrigation, feeder road) programs for a major effort to address rural
poverty in Mexico over the next ten years. These programs are specifically
addressing the rural families with incomes less than the equivalent of
US$800 per year. Over this period, river basin programs (Papaloapan,
Balsas and Tehuantepec), intensified functional efforts in credit, extension
and especially irrigation and the expanded PIDER micro-region effort assessed
in this report should make a substantial impact on Mexico's rural poor if the
current political commitment is maintained.
Functional Programs
2.07      Until 1970 development efforts in the poorer rural areas were
focused along main roads and regional river basin development programs
(Comision del Balsas, Comision del Papaloapan, Comisi6n Valle del Fuerte,
etc.), most of which were starved of resources after large dams and other
infrastr-acture had been constructed.
2.08      In 1970, however, the Government began in earnest to implement a
policy shift by allocating substantial resources to a number of schemes
directed at raising incomes and increasing basic services in the poorer rural
areas of Mexico. This was brought about by expanding two existing rural
development strategies and devising a third. First, river basin development
programs are being resuscitated (Papaloapan Project 1053-ME) with special
efforts concentrated on poorer groups located within the basin by providing
packages of low-cost productive and social investments. Second, rural
development capabilities are being strengthened in agencies, such as the
Ministry for Hydraulic Resources (SRH), official credit agencies, the Ministry
of Public Works (SOP), the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE), the Ministry
of Agrarian Reform (SRA), and CONASUPO, the Government marketing agency.
Separate rural development departments were created in many of these agencies.
A related commodity extension program known as "Plan Puebla" is also being
expanded by the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG). Plan Puebla was initiated in
1967 by the International Center for Maize and Wheat Seed Improvement (CIMMYT)
to develop an efficient approach for promoting rapid increases in rainfed
maize production on the small holdings of Mexican farmers. Third, a new
program for integrated rural development (PIDER) was initiated.



PIDER
2.09        ObIectives and Strategy.   In 1972 the Government initated a
comprehensive nationwide program of rural development (PIDER) directed toward
the development of regions of endemic rural poverty.   The program's primary
objective is to provide investments and services in selected rural areas, in
order to:
a. raise rural living standards by introducing directly
productive activities;
b. increase levels of permanent and temporary employment; and
c. strengthen supporting productive activities and improve basic
social infrastructure.
To achieve these objectives, the Government's strategy is to focus additional
investments in micro-regions by improving the administrative operations of
its existing planning and execution system through the establishment of PIDER
coordinating machinery in the Ministry of the Presidency.   PIDER's strategy
is threefold;
a. increase and focus investments and services of existing agencies
on selected poor rural micro-regions with productive potential;
b. decentralize planning and especially execution to state and
local levels; and
c. encourage village and ejido level participation in the
planning and execution process.
At present, only small amounts of the regular agency budgets are being spent on
these micro-regions.   The basic unit for purposes of investment programming in
these selected poor areas is a defined micro-region comprising from two to seven
contiguous municipalities within one state (see Annex 2).   The average micro-
region contains about 50,000 persons living in three municipalities.
2.10        Characteristics.  PIDER has three characteristics that distinguish
it from ongoing rural development programs. First, PIDER is directed to regions
which are among the most depressed economically in the country. It is an attempt
to redistribute income and productive capacity to communities which have been
bypassed by other programs. Second, budget control is exercised through the
PIDER office in the Ministry of the Presidency, which has,the power to assign
all funds allocated for the PIDER program. This is a departure from the usual
situation in which each agency is independently funded and operates according
to its own assessment of priorities. Financing of each micro-region is through
funds allocated to each agency on the basis of an integrated micro-region
investment plan. Agencies can only withdraw funds for purposes approved in
the plan, and, third, it is an attempt to decentralize both planning and program
execution. This decentralization is directed at the involvement of beneficiaries
in the planning process, and includes the strengthening of the planning and
decision-making process at state and village levels.



-5-
2.11      Progress.  Thus far, 45 micro-regions are in operation.  As of
December 197T, US$133 million has been invested in the initial micro-regions.
Ovrer the period 1975-77, a further US$450 million has been programmed to
complete their development. In addition, Government expects to program an
additional US$650 million to develop a further 55 micro-regions, resulting
in an estimated total expenditure of US$1.2 billion. Some 5 million poor
rural people are likely to benefit when the 100 micro-region program is
complete, some 25% of the rural population.
C. Supporting Services in the Rhral Areas
2.12      In the past, the services supporting the development of rural areas
had been developed in a parallel rather than coordinated manner. These were
also largely directed to stimulating agricultural production primarily on
larger farms. With the advent of a more balanced policy since 1970, many of
those agencies have created special rural development departments charged with
devising programs and techniques for servicing the needs of the rural poor
(Annex 3). Among those active in this field is the Ministry for Hydraulic
Resources, which has established a special department for the planning and
execution of small-scale irrigation schemes at village and ejido level.
Throughout Mexico, and with financial assistance from IDB, this department
has created some 200,000 ha of irrigation for about 30,000 small farmers since
1965. Agricultural credit is available from both official and private insti-
tutions. In 1972, the Bank of Mexico altered its procedures in order to
intensify its rediscounting operations for development loans made by the
banking system (especially Banco Ejidal and Banco Agricola) to ejidos and
small farmer groups. Government's Banco Ejidal focuses particularly on
ejidos, while Banco Agricola services the requirements of small private
farmers. Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO), while lending mainly to
medium and larger farmers, has also developed capability in its lending
operations to smaller farmers.
2.13      A new land reform law has added an important development role to the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform (SRA) which has created two new institutes: SOFE,
a department promoting ejido organization and development, and INACAP, a
national institute for campesino training. Special SOFE 13-person multi-
disciplinary teams are organized to work with ejidos and villages to sensitize
them to available development opportunities and to reorganize ejido and village
committees, so as to assure fuller local "bottom up" participation in their
jointly worked out development program.
2.14      The primary responsibility for expanding agrioultural extension and
research efforts in the poorer rural areas of Mexico lies with the Ministry
of Agriculture. It has been charged with the expansion of the "Plan Puebla"
extension system and has responsibility for administering the livestock
improvement program and expanding soil and water conservation efforts. SRH
and the credit agencies also have important extension and field demonstration
roles to support their irrigation and credit investments.



- 6 -
2.15        The number of rural based agricultural technicians employed in
federal agencies and banks has risen markedly since 1967 and by 1974 totaled
some 6,000.     Moreover, 700-900 agriculturalists and several thousand
middle-level technicians are graduating each year from Mexican colleges
and universities. These technicians are slowly introducing new technologies
into small farmer systems in rainfed areas. In view of the long
lead-time required for field trials and farm demonstrations to produce
results (even under such relatively favorable ecological and social circum-
stances as prevailed in Plan Puebla areas), extension workers may have to
operate for some time with uncertainty regarding knowledge of the various
agricultural practices for drier rainfed areas. Nevertheless, many specific
recommendations already exist as applicable to rainfed farming technology,
such as the Plan Puebla-developed maize (and bean) technology for sub-humid
areas, improved special water conservation measures and new storage techniques
of maize silage for livestock feeding in semi-arid areas.
2.16        Minimum support prices, administered by CONASUPO, are offered
for a number of food crops including maize, wheat, sorghum, beans and oil-
seeds. CONASUPOts crop purchasing system generally functions adequately.
Milk processing and marketing cooperatives purchase the bulk of dairy
production, both from larger and smaller farmers.
2.17      Various other agencies are involved in providing productive
support and social infrastructure in rural areas. Among the more important
are the Ministry of Public Works in charge of a countrywide labor-intensive
feeder road progran, the Ministry of Health (SSA) charged with providing
health services to rural areas and together with SRH, rural water supplies,
and the Federal Electricity Commission which has substantially expanded its
efforts in rural electrificati6n (Annex 3).
2.18        These improvements in supporting agency capabilities for dealing
with the rural poor are important to achieve the PIDER program objectives.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
3.01        In line with PIDER's overall objectives (para  2.09), individual
micro-regions to be developed were selected using criteria based on population
density, productive potential, poverty levels, and lack of basic infrastructure,
such as roads, markets, and drinking water (Annex 2). Each micro-region plan
was prepared on the basis of field research on existing economic activities
and the potential for further development.  The directly productive and
productive support investments required to exploit this potential were iden-
tified and subsequently evaluated. Social infrastructure investments were



-7-
included where required to reinforce the development of the micro-region's
longer-term productive potential and to increase the potential for initiating
a self-sustaining rural development process.   All these investments
were programmed for each micro-region over a four-year period on the basis
of priority and each community's absorptive capacity.
3.02        For the purpose of appraisal, the country was divided into six
ecological zones (arid, semi-arid, transitional, temperate, dry tropics and
wet tropics - see Map 11418). The bulk of Mexico's rural poor live in these
zones. Micro-regions were appraised in the field which were broadly repre-
sentative of conditions prevailing in these zones. (See Annex 2.) In total,
30 detailed micro-region investment plans would be included in the Project
of which 15 have been already submitted and reviewed. Another 15 would be
submitted before June 30, 1975. Of the 15 submitted, 12 have been reviewed
in the field, six in detail (Annex 1). Annex 8, Table 1 summarizes data on
the 15 submitted micro-regions.
B. Brief Description
3.03        The Project would assist the implementation of these investment plans
in 30 micro-regions with a rural population of 1.5 million. For the 15 micro-
regions which have been reviewed, the last two years of the investment plan
would be financed.  For another 15 micro-regions, which would be submitted for
IBRD approval before June 30, 1975, the last three years of the plan would be
financed. Estimated costs for the latter 15 were based. on projections from
experience made from assessing the first 15. The Project would also improve
and consolidate planning coordination and implementation by existing government
agencies involved in rural development, and support an intensive evaluation
effort. The Project is designed to support:
a. Directly Productive Investments (66%) through the provision
of development credit for beef, dairy cattle and other
livestock purchases, rainfed grain farming, irrigated crop
and fruit tree production and beekeeping. Finance would
also be provided for improved livestock production (land
clearing, fencing and stock handling yards), irrigation
development and rehabilitation and soil and water
conservation.
b. Productive Support Investments (22%) through the provision
of finance for the development of improved extension services,
market and store construction, electrification and improved
training (mainly at farmer level involving training in-farm
management and decision-making). The Project would also
assist in speeding up clearance of land titles to newly-
established ejidos, and support technical services including
agricultural research at federal, state and village levels.
c. Social Infrastructure (12%) by the provision of improved
drinking water supplies, materials for self-help village
improvement projects, construction of primary schools and
by the development of limited rural health facilities.



d. Evaluation by supporting the activities of a new
Center for Research in Rural Development which inter alia
would carry out Project-related evaluation and applied
research.
3.04        The table on the following page illustrates the type and distribu-
tion of investments estimated under the Project.
C. Detailed Features
3.05        Micro-Region Selection Criteria.  To meet PIDER requirements for
development, micro-regions must be poor, have productive potential, and lack
basic infrastructure required to exploit the agricultural potential. During
appraisal,criteria were developed for the selection of micro-regions (Annex 2).
These criteria were based on a number of minimum target thresholds which each
micro-region has to meet as part of the selection and approval process. These
threshold criteria involve population density, poverty, underemployment and
productive potential.
3.o6        This approval process is based on the investment program balance,
an assessment of the micro-region organization and staffing and a threshold
economic rate of return of a minimum of 10%. While each of the 15 submitted
micro-regions have more than 75% of their overall investment, including
credit, programmed for productive investments, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that any micro-region to be submitted having less than
70% productive investments including credit would not be eligible for support
under the Bank loan. In appraising the remaining 15 micro-regions the Bank
would apply a three-tier economic rate of return assessment test. Micro-regions
showing a 15% or higher rate of return on productive investments would initially
be approved for reimbursement, with selected field checks. Those micro-regions
submitted carrying rates of return between 10% and 15% would be subject to a
detailed field appraisal by IBRD staff. After careful checking of the basic
assumptions underlying the return calculations, those actually falling below
10% would not be accepted for IBRD support under the Project. Assurances
on this minimum rate of return test (10%) were obtained during negotiations.
This appraisal would be made by IBRD staff prior to recommending acceptance
of the remaining micro-region investment plans for disbursement purposes.
and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.07        Village/Ejido Investment Programming.  During the initial village-
level investment programming, a joint state- and federal-level team visits each
village or ejido in a selected micro-region. Prior to its visit, a detailed
baseline diagnosis is completed at the state level from various censuses and
agency files (SRA, SRH, etc.).    This diagnosis includes basic data on the
village or ejido. Included in this basic diagnosis are population and income
data, cropping patterns, availability of existing resources (groundwater, stream
flows, soil and rainfall patterns), and basic infrastructure and services
(schools, roads, etc.) and a summary of all requests for improvements made
by the village to state- and federal-level authorities. During its



- 9 -
Mexico
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER
Type and Distribution of Project Investments
Unit        Total
Units    Cost      Investment
Unit        Served   (US$)   (US$ Million
I. Directly Productive Total
A.  Infrastructure                                                                  75
Livestock                                 no.            800  26,000          21
,Irrigation                               ha          30,000   1,200          35
Soil and Water Conservation               ha         91,000      104         10
Beekeeping                                              -       -              1
Fruit Production                          ha           9,500     650           6
Forestry and Fisheries                                  _                      2
B.  Credit                                                                            64
1. Development Credit
Cattle & Irrigation Support                          -         -           27
Fruit Production                        ha         75,000      250         19
2. Incremental Seasonal
Production Credit                       ha        120,000      150          18
II.  Productive Support, Total                                                       47
Feeder Roads                              km          1,900   6,00            13
Demonstration and Extension         no. of staff         400    -             15
Farmer Organization                no. of staff          250    -              6
Marketing                          markets/stores         65  1h,000          1
Electrification                    persons          160,000       85         12
III.  Social Infrastructure, Total                                                    25
Health Centers and Posts                  no.            290  11,000           3
Primary Education                   classrooms        1,150   5,000            6
Drinking Wdater                    persons          170,000       75         13
Self-Help Projects                 persons           85,ooo       40          3
IV.  Evaluation                                                                       1
V.  Total Base Line Cost                                                           212
Contingencies
Physical                                               -        -            15
Price                                                  -        -68
VI.  Total Project Cost                                        -       -            25



10 -
visit, the programming team checks and revises these data with the
villagers, explains the PIDER objectives and strategies as they might apply
to their village, and obtains from villagers their development priorities.
The mix of the villager-desired investment program is then assessed (on
the basis of priority needs for income and employment growth and improved
provision of an essential level of basic services) against available tech-
nical information (existence of groundwater, soils, etc.) and finally
developed into a multi-sectoral village-level investment program. These
village or ejido investment programs are then consolidated into micro-region
development programs. These approved programs are subject to revision on
an annual basis in the light of the "feed forward" experiences generated
through the intensive PIDER monitoring process. Where this annual reprogram-
ming results in major changes to an approved micro-region investment program
(a 30% or more increase or decrease in any of the social components),
IBERD approval for the reprogrammed plan would be required. Assurances on
such approvals were obtained during negotiations.
3.08        During appraisal, a more systematic village/ejido level
investment programming methodology (described below) was devised. PIDER
then agreed to reprogram its existing micro-regions using this improved
methodology. This appraisal report is based on 15 of these reprogrammed
micro-regions.
3.09        Essentially, this new methodology makes explicit the incremental
income and employment generating aspects of the ejido development program.
It also enables PIDER programming staff to test the internal consistency of
the ejido investment package. The investments programmed in the representative
ejido and village plans were systematically evaluated using financial rate
of return analyses and included estimates that temporary labor required for
development works related to the development of that ejido could be met from
the off-season under-employed labor from that ejido. This analysis of a pro-
posed investment package for a "representative" ejido thus provides an
analytical measure of the investment program as a whole for the micro-region,
consolidated from village and ejido based programs.
3.10        This methodology can then be used to assess: (i) the
projected yields which underlie the technical feasibility of obtaining increased
incomes; (ii) the annual temporary and permanent labor requirements of the
proposed investment package measured against seasonally unemployed ejido labor;
and, (iii) the availability of funds from within the ejido to meet fixed levels
of cash contributions to social infrastructure such as water and electricity
and to service increased operating loan amortization charges from incremental
income flows. In addition, this ejido budgeting methodology enables the
various agencies interfacing with the ejido members to time better their
investment, service and credit provision activities. Finally, the methodology
requiresthe calculation of financial and economic rates of return.



- 11 -
3.11        As mentioned, PIDER prepares an investment program for each
village or ejido receiving assistance under a micro-region program. In
addition, PIDER has now prepared detailed financial budgets in its reprogrammed
micro-region plans for actual villages or ejidos in each micro-region.
These detailed financial budgets are being prepared after selection
by PIDER staff as being an indicative sample of the likely cash
flow and benefit streams to be obtained from the investment packages proposed
for the majority of ejidos to be developed in that micro-region. To conso-
lidate and expand this budgeting methodology, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that ejido or village budgets would be prepared for representative
villages or ejidos participating in the Project no later than one year following
the signing of the loan. Copies of these budgets would be available at ejido/
village, state and PIDER (federal) levels.
Directly Productive Activities
3.12        Irrigation (17%).  Development of small-scale irrigation is expected
to comprise 17% of investments under the loan. The Project would develop
30,000 ha of irrigated land at an average cost of US$1,200 per ha (Annex 3a).
Construction would be carried out mainly by SRH, using a specialized department
called Irrigation Works for Rural Development. A small proportion of work
would be undertaken by SAG.
3.13        Prior to development, technical and socio-economic feasibility
studies would be carried out for each proposed irrigation project in accordance
with existing SRH guidelines, which are acceptable. SAG irrigation projects
supported under the Project would follow similar procedures. Assurances that
these procedures would continue to be followed both by SRH and by SAG were
obtained at negotiations.
3.14        Investment in the Project's irrigation component would be limited
to-US$4,000 per family for projects up to 25 ha (small works). For these
smaller works, the total cost of a single project would not exceed US$32,000
and would benefit no less than eight families. For larger projects (26 to
2,500 ha) the investment costs per family v/ would not exceed US$24,000 and
no family with a pre-project net income of greater than US$2,500 would be
eligible beneficiaries. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on these
limits. Costs of operation and maintenance would be the responsibility of
SRH or SAG and would be recovered from the beneficiaries. On irrigation
projects the level of recovery (over 0 & M costs) of investment costs would
be determined by economic studies carried out by SRH taking into account
the ability of water users to pay and the need to maintain an incentive for
them to make best use of the land and water available to them. This is in
accordance with the requirements of the 1972 National Water Law (Article 79).
3.15        Farm Development Credit (29.6%).  Considerable progress under the
Fourth Agricultural Credit loan has been made in developing criteria and
institutional capabilities for lending to low-income farmers. By early 1975,
the US$25 million allocated under this loan was fully committed. Both
1/ The average expenditure per family benefitting from new irrigation is
expected to be about the equivalent of US$ 5000. Average investment per
family for irrigation rehabilitation is expected to be about US$500.



- 12 -
public (Banco Agropecuario, Banco Ejidal and Banco Agr'cola) and private
banks had made loans to small farmers under the technical and financial
criteria established by the FONDO of the Bank of Mexico.
3.16        In 1974, substantial effort was made by PIDER and FONDO staff
to assess the credit (seasonal and longer-term) needs of small farmers in the
micro-regions. FONIDO and Banco Ejidal representatives joined the PIDER
Coordinating Committee in 1974 to ensure closer integration of credit promo-
tion and availability with the programmed physical infrastructure.
3.17        The Project would promote: (i) the access by small farmers to new
or expanded micro-region-level credit facilities; and (ii) the efficient use
of seasonal and longer-term development credit by these farmers, especially
those organized in groups. The incorporation of a credit component would
ensure the timely availability of credit to maximize the efficient use of
productive infrastructure. Seasonal production credit at an interest rate
currently at 12% would be provided under the Project from existing credit
lines, but would not be reimbursable from the proposed loan. The bulk of
the medium- and long-term credit would be for supporting credit needs resulting
from irrigation investments and for cattle purchases to stock newly cleared
lands. Development credit would be made available on the same terms as are
applied nationally in Mexico (currently 7.6% interest and 3- to 12-year terms).
The same arrangements set under the 910-ME low-income producers credit
component would be followed under this Project, and assurances that these
conditions (or those subsequently agreed by the Bank in connection with
future loans for national credit programs) would be followed under this
Project were obtained during negotiations.
3.18        Livestock Development (10%).  The Project would support livestock
development on some 800 ejidos. Beef cattle development would be the major
investment involving land clearing, pasture establishment, perimeter fencing
and the provision of limited cattle watering and handling facilities. Under
the ongoing program, there has been a tendency in some micro-regions for
over-design of livestock facilities by the SAG livestock extension division.
To rectify this, assurances were obtained that SAG would implement revised
plans for low-cost livestock facilities.
3.19        Soil and Water Conservation (4.9%).  The Project would support the
construction of soil and water conservation works by labor-intensive methods.
SAG estimates that 47% (93 million ha) of Mexico's land area has been destroyed
(14%) or damaged (33%) by soil erosion. Under the Project, some 91,000 ha
would involve the construction of contour ridges, terrac'es and checkdams for
gully protection. Contour ridging for water conservation in the drier areas
such as southern Nuevo Leon costs an average of US$45/ha, while terraces for
both water and soil control in Zacapoaxtla cost an average of US$180/ha.
Programs would be implemented on both arable and grazing land. The program
would be carried out by the Soil and Water Conservation Directorate of SAG



- 13 -
(Annex 3b). No cash or labor contributions for conservation works are required
under the PIDER/SAG conservation works. However, de facto contributions result
from the payment procedure. In most cases, only part of the payment is in cash
while the remainder is paid as subsistence food with a value equivalent to less
than the regional daily minimum salary. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that benefiting ejidos and villages would provide for maintenance ol works under
SAG supervision. Furthermore, assurances were obtained that labor-intensive
techniques of construction would continue to be emphasized, and that prior to
construction detailed conservation plans on a watershed basis would be prepared
for each village or ejido area.
3.20        Fruit Production (4.9%).  The Project would support the development
of orchard infrastructure and the initial planting of fruit trees on some 9,500 ha
on ejidos and in villages in the micro-regions. CONAFRUT (the national commis-
sion for fruit production) is an autonomous agency operating under SAG charged
with developing fruit production in rural Mexico (see Annex 3m). CONAFRUT's
organization and technical capabilities have been substantially improved since
1971. Under the Project, CONAFRUT's micro-region activities relating to farmer
demonstration, nursery development, orchard preparation, plant distribution
and technical extension would be supported. The types of fruit production
supported under the Project vary according to ecological areas, ranging
from apples in Nuevo Leon to mangoes and avocadoes in Yucatan.
3.21        Other Productive Investments (1%).   The Project would also
support limited investments in the project micro-regions in beekeeping
(US$1 million), forestry (US$1.8 million) and fishery development (US$0.12
million). Beekeeping is a traditional productive activity carried on mainly
by small farmers in many parts of Mexico, especially in the Yucatan area.
Under the project, provision for hive improvement and expansion plus support-
ing gathering equipment and fencing would be provided. It is a particularly
labor-intensive activity. Reforestation and afforestation investments on
selected ejidos would also be provided for, especially where those ejidos
have already established small sawmills. In two micro-regions, Sinaloa and
Baja California, supporting fishery infrastructure in the form of cold storage
facilities would be assisted.   SAG would be responsible for supervising
construction and ongoing extension for beekeeping and forestation and for
supervising maintenance of fishery cold stores.
Productive Support Activities
3.22        Feeder Roads (6%).   The Project would provide for the construction
of about 1,900 km of feeder roads. Over the past few years SOP has developed
considerable technical and organizational capabilities in the building of low-
cost feeder roads throughout various ecological regions of Mexico (Annex 3c).
Prior to construction, SOP require that committees be organized at ejido or
village level, in order that contracts for construction labor may be made.
Construction is usually carried out during the post-harvest season in order
to minimize conflict with the labor needs of agriculture. Labor-intensive



- 14 -
methods of construction would continue to be used. Currently, labor accounts
for about 70% of estimated construction costs of US$6,800 per km.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that economic and efficient labor-
intensive techniques of construction would continue to be emphasized and
construction would be scheduled in periods of seasonal slack in the agricul-
tural production cycle. Assurances were also obtained that SOP would
provide for continued maintenance of these roads.
3.23        Rural Marketing (0.7%).  In recent years CONASUPO has developed
an improved capability for expanding and servicing its network of rural stores
and warehouses (Annex 3d).  Under the Project some 60 small stores ("tiendas")
and 5 warehouses ("bodegas") for the purchase and storage of farm produce
would be constructed. Existing village structures would be converted into
stores at an average cost of US$2,700 each. Initial stock for such stores
would require an additional investment of US$2,500 per store. Stock would
include simple productive inputs such as garden seeds, hoes, pesticide and,
fertilizer as well as supplies of basic food requirements. CONASUPO, after
detailed review of earlier problems, has taken a number of steps to alter
and improve its warehouse program. New rural markets cost, with start-up
working capital, an average of US$184,000 with storage capacity of 900 tons
of grain. CONASUPO, in association with Banco Agropecuario, has devised an
innovative program of rural consumer credit (Annex 3d), linked to its rural
store and warehouse network. This has proved successful when tried on an
experimental scale. This credit program would be expanded slightly in the
Project areas on a closely monitored basis. Since the amounts involved are
small (US$170,000), IBERD financial support would not be required. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that CO14ASUPO would: (i) select sites
for store and warehouse development in areas selected for productive poten-
tial; and (ii) give priority to villages that provide the basic store
structure free.
3.24        Farmer Organization and Training (2.8%).  The Project would provide
support to SRA for the expansion of staff and services within Project areas.
A new land reform law added a development role to SRA activities and led
to the creation of SOFE and INACAP. 1/ The Project would support the estab-
lishment of SOFE teams in each Project micro-region (Annex 3e). Each team
would cost about US$100,000 annually. Each SOFE team member would service
about eight ejidos or village groups containing some 5,000 persons in total.
These teams would make campesinos aware of the possibilities and need for
"bottom up" participation in development, orientate them to development
opportunities and reorganize ejido committees, so as to ensure full partici-
pation in a jointly agreed development program. Close liaison would be main-
tained with investment agency staff, especially SAG extension field teams,
in order to ensure that farmers are aware of government development services
and their obligations once a micro-region development program is underway.
1/ SOFE is SRA's Department of Organization and Ejido Development. INACAP is
the National Institute for Farmer Training, now being assisted under a
UNDP grant.



- 15 -
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i) each team would be
given a minimum of one month's training prior to entering the designated
micro-region; and (ii) non-ejido small farmers in Project micro-regions would
not be discriminated against by these teams.
3.25        Extension and Field Demonstration (7.1%).  A major effort would be
made as part of the Project to carry out micro-region field demonstrations of
recommended technical practices and to improve the effectiveness of the extension
services operating in the micro-regions (Annex 3f). For the two-thirds of the
micro-regions with adequate rainfall (better than 750 mm) and for the irrigated
portions of drier regions, the recommended technical packages for improved crop
and livestock production are relatively well known. The principal effort in
these cases would focus on dissemination of results by improved extension
techniques. For those micro-regions with less than 750 mm rainfall, technical
packages for improving rainfed crop production are not as well developed.
Under the Project, intensified micro-region-level adaptive testing and farm-
level demonstration efforts would be carried out to broaden further the low risk
packages available to farmers in these areas. PIDER has made a major effort to
strengthen and revamp the SAG extension services operating in the micro-regions
by organizing them into multi-disciplinary brigades averaging 22 persons per
micro-region (a ratio of 1 to 400 families or four ejidos), by expanding
their training, particularly in Plan Puebla techniques,L/ field demonstration
and by introducing lower-level agricultural technicians into the brigade
system. Most of the micro-regions will be operating with these SAG-supported
extension brigades. However, PIDER is also supporting some alternative types
of extension efforts in a few micro-regions. These efforts are designed to
address specific ecological and/or cultural conditions prevalent in these
particular micro-regions. For example, one is Plan Zacapoaxtla, based directly
on Plan Puebla experiences, where a group of 12 technicians supported by local
farmer demonstrators is focusing mainly on a specific commodity/crop-oriented
extension effort rather than on a multi-crop approach. Another is the
High Chiapas effort, designed specifically for isolated Indian regions, where
4 to 6 professionals select and train local "promotores" who return to their
villages to work on improved extension practices. These "promotores" are
paid wages equivalent to about half the level of SAG lower-level technicians
who are high school-level agricultural graduates. Finally, intensified
technical assistance through the credit system, especially from Banco Ejidal
and Banco Agropecuario is encouraged by PIDER. Annex 3f provides further
details on these various approaches.
3.26        Quantitatively, the micro-regions are reasonably well serviced,
roughly in a one-worker to 400-farmer ratio. The major problem is to ensure
that th^.e technical packages being recommended are soundly based and are low
risk to participating farmers in the drier areas. To minimize this risk,
assurances were obtained that SAG would execute a plan of action to be agreed
1/ These extension teams will be trained in 1-1/2 months courses by supervisors
from CENEIEA National Demonstration and Agricultural Extension Center.



- 16 -
and approved as a condition of loan effectiveness, for the qualitative
improvement of SAG's micro-region-level extension brigades. This plan
of action would give particular attention to their need for intensified
training, the development of farmer-level crop trial techniques and the
use of local farmers as extension and demonstration agents.
3.27       Rural Electrification (5.7%).  The Project would bring electricity
to some 170,000 rural people living in 300 villages spread throughout some
of the poorest areas of Mexico at a total cost of US$12.1 million (Annex 3i).
50% of the demand is estimated to be associated with directly productive
investments and the rest for improving the living standards of the population.
The average cost of bringing electricity to villages is estimated at US$70
per beneficiary. CFE builds, operates and maintains electricity generation
and distribution facilities throughout Mexico and is now implementing a
national six-year (1971-76) plan for rural electrification, which is now
more than 50% completed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that installation costs would not exceed US$150 per person, that
villagers would pay 20% of installation costs, cover the full cost of opera-
tion and maintenance and repay investment costs over 25 years. CFE's rate
structure as now applied in the rural areas is adequate for this purpose.
Social Infrastructure
3.28        Village/Ejido-Level Educational Facilities (2.7%).  The Project
would help improve education opportunities by renovating, constructing and
furnishing 1,150 primary level classrooms accommodating some 60,000 students.
New construction of each classroom would cost about US$5,500 inclusive of
furniture (Annex 3g). This program would account for nearly 30% of the current
building program of CAPFCE (the school construction agency) directed at rural
communities of 300-2,500 people. CAPFCE has established a sound system of
rural school siting and construction, choosing low cost building designs
and methods and coordinating closely with the Ministry of Education to ensure
staffing arrangements.  Siting and construction would continue to be closely
coordinated with the Ministry of Education to ensure adequate provision of
teaching materials and staff. In carrying out the program, CAPFCE requires
benefiting ejidos and villages to provide a free site. CAPFCE also promotes
local contribution of building materials and teacher housing. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that these facilities would be adequately
staffed and maintained by the Government.
3.29       Rural Health (1.6%).  The Project would provide for the renovation,
construction and equipping of 220 rural health posts and 70 rural health
centers (Annex 3h). Rural health posts, staffed by community health workers,
would be established in communities of 500 to 2,500 persons, and their new
construction would cost approximately US$4,000 each, including simple furniture
and equipment. Rural health centers costing US$50,000 each, when newly
constructed and equipped, would be established in larger rural towns with a
population of about 8,500 people (1,500 families). These centers have three



- 17 -
beds and are staffed by two assistants and a physician.  The Ministry of
Health (SSA) would be responsible for constructing health facilities under
the Project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that beneficiaries would contribute 10% in cash, labor or materials to health
post construction costs and pay for non-staff operating costs and that
health posts and centers would be adequately staffed and maintained.  In
a few micro-regions, a more comprehensive low-cost rural health delivery
system would be developed. Aiming at a fuller coverage of rural population,
it would also provide for training of about 150 community health workers and
30 auxiliary nurses and the development of effective operation and management
capacity. An evaluation component would produce criteria for the widened
implementation of the National Health Plan.
3.30        Rural Water Supply (5.9%).  The Project would provide rural water
systems for approximately 250,000 persons ataan average cost of US$50 per
person (Annex 3j). Both SSA and SRH provide rural water systems, with SSA
concentrating on smaller villages and SRH on larger towns. Both agencies are
also responsible for operation and maintenance. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that a minimum contribution of 15% to investment costs would be
made by villagers, that full payment for operation and maintenance costs would
be obtained, that the strengthening of state-level maintenance operations would
be continued, and finally that there be a limit, except with IBRD approval, on
Government's share of system costs of US$100 per person benefited.
3.31        Materials for Self-Help Projects (1.6%). The Project would provide
support for self-help activities at ejido and village level. Materials costing
no more than US$40 per capita would be made available to ejidatarios and
villagers who would develop projects mainly on a group basis. Group projects
would be encouraged. All labor would be provided by beneficiaries. Self-
help projects would include a variety of activities such as workshops, vegetable
gardens, fencing for children's playgrounds, and community centers. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the cost of materials
provided would not exceed the equivalent of US$40 per capita in each micro-
region.
D. Cost Estimates
3.32      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$295 million, includ-
ing provision for_necessary incremental production credit;_US$50 million, or 17%,
represents foreign exchange costs of the Project. Base cost estimates for
civil works, equipment and labor are calculated on a-two-year experience with
investments under the PIDER program compounded from October 1974 prices (Annex 4).
Physical contingencies of 10% are included for construction, and equipment and
technical services components. Price contingencies of 31.5% are estimated,
based upon expected price increases of: 15% to 10% per annum for labor; 17%
to 10% per annum for civil works and equipment needs; and 5% to 10% per annum
for cattle, all compounded over the four-year disbursement period.



- 18 -
E.   Financing
3.33        Financing of the cash 1/ project cost would be shared in the
following amounts and proportions:
Beneficiaries    Government         Bank      Total
Amount     %     Amount   %      Amount  %   Amourt
Components                ------------------US$ millions--------------------
Project Cost
Directly Productive
A. Infrastructure         0       0       45    60        30   40      75
B. Development Credit    2        5       23    47 a/    21   48       45
C. Incremental
Seasonal Produc-
tion Credit           -       -       18   100         -    -     18
Productive Support        2       4       29    60        18   40      47
Social Infrastructure    1        4       13    52        lo   40      25
Evaluation                -       -        1   100         -    -       1
Contingencies             2       3       49    60        31   40      82
Share in Total
Project Cost               7       2      178    61       110   37    295
a/ Participating banks 10%, Government 37%.
3.34        Incremental production credit required for the Project, amounting
to US$18 million, would be financed by the Government. The remaining project
cost of US$277 million would be financed by a proposed Bank loan of US$110
million which would cover foreign exchange costs of US$47 million (16% of
these remaining project costs) plus US$63 million of local currency costs
(21%). Government, including the Bank of Mexico, would contribute US$142
million (6I%).  Beneficiaries would contribute US$7 million (2%) to the costs
of water, electrification, development credit and health. In the case of
selt-help projects, materials would be provided by the Project, and labor
would be provided by the householder or village. Assurances on this cost
financing were obtained during negotiations.
1/ Excludes the non-cash beneficiary contributions of labor and kind to the
Project, which if valued in monetary terms would add some US$30 million,
or 10%, to total project cost.



- 19 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Foreign    Unskilled      % of
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange          Labor     Base Line
---- Mex$ Million                  US$ Million -----    -------- 9 ---------        Cost
I. Directly Productive
A. Infrastructure
Livestock                      210       52       262      16.8      4.2      21.0        20          20           10.0
Irrigation                     330     110       U4O       26.4     8.8       35.2        25          30           17.0
Fruit Production                65        7        72       5.1     0.6        5.7        10          35            2.7
Soil & Water Conservation    112        18        130       9.0     1.4       10.4        14          75            4.9
Beekeeping                      13        0        13       1.1      0.0       1.1         0          14            0.5
Forestry                        20        2        22       1.6      0.2       1.8        10          35            0.8
Fishery                          2        0         2       0.1      0.0       0.1        20          20            0.1
Sub-Total                751      190        91      T0.1    15.2        75.3                                36.0
B. Credit
Development Credit             455     114        569      36.4      9.1      45.5        20          15           21.1
Incremental Production
Credit                      198       27        225     15.8      2.2       18.0        12         20             8.5
Sub-Total                55       -iv        797      52-     I1         ZT7; ~77
II. Productive Support
Feeder Roads                   151      11        162      12.0      0.9      12.9         7          70            6.o
Extension and Field
Demonstration                178      11        189      14.2     0.9       15.1         6           0            7.1
Farmer Organization             73        3        76       5.9     0.2        6.1         4           0            2.8
Marketing                       16        1        17       1.3      0.1       1.4         5          10            0.7
Electrification                114       38       152       9.1      3.0      12.1        25          21            5.7
Sub-Total                 532      7           5      42.      7.7       b777                                n7
III.  Social Infrastructure
Health                          35        6        41       2.8      0.5       3.3        15          30            1.6
Education                       61       11        72       5.0      0.8       5.8        15          27            2.7
Drinking Water                 126       31       157      10.0      2.5      12.5        20          40            5.9
Self-Help Projects              40        2        42       3.2      0.2       3.4         5           0            1.6
Sub-Total                g6        70        rI1      21.0     170      -27.0l
IV.  Evaluation                              8       1          9       o.6     0.1        0.7        10           0            0.3
V.  Total Base Line Cost                2,207     446      2,652    176.4    35.7       212.1       (17)        (28)         100.0
Physical Contingencies         158       32       190      12.7     2.5       15.2                                  7.2
Expected Price Increases       697     141        840      55.9    11.3       67.2                                 31.6
VI.  Total Project Cost                  3,062     620      3,682    245.0    49.5       294.5       (17)        (28)-/       138.8
a/ Total direct labor represents 34% of project costs, 28% unskilled, 6% skilled and professional labor.



-20-
3.35      The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFIN), a
Government borrowing entity for loans from the Bank.
F. Disbursements
3.36      The Bank would reimburse Mexico 40% of the investment expenditures
for civil works, equipment, vehicles and technical services of agencies
participating in the program, against appropriate documentation, and 56%
of rediscounts of the development credit component administered by FOND0,
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not
be submitted for review but would be retained within Mexico and held
available for inspection by the IBRD during the course of supervision missions.
The statements of expenditure, certified by the Ministry of Finance, would
reflect the expenditures made by each agency in each approved micro-region.
Any undisbursed loan funds remaining after Project completion would be
cancelled. Since the Project would include 15 micro-regions already under-
way and 15 recently programmed micro-regions, a disbursement period of four
years is contemplated (Annex 5). Regional Government banks, selected on
a state basis, act as the financing agents of PIDER. The selected banks
receive, at the beginning of each fiscal year, comprehensive investment
plans for the approved micro-regions in their command areas, on the basis
of which they will disburse against vouchers from the executing agencies.
The participating banks will, in turn, be reimbursed by the Ministry of
Finance.
G. Procurement
3.37      The Project would include a diversity of relatively small construc-
tion jobs in many locations throughout the country involving at least 14
government agencies. Thus, only a small part of the Project would be
suitable for international competitive bidding.
3.38      For civil works and building construction, and for procurement
of machinery, equipment, materials, and supplies, the following procurement
procedures would be followed:
a. For single contracts exceeding US$250,000 in value,
international competitive bidding following Bank
Guidelines for Procurement would be required. The
normal preference for domestic suppliers of 15% would
be permitted in the evaluation of bids for manufactured
items. Each agency would endeavor, where feasible,-to
group contracts together in order to attract more
competition in bidding.



- 21 -
b.  Contracts less than this arcunt such as for
construction of classrooms, health posts, feeder
roads, markets, stores and other buildings which are
al" small, of varied design and geographically
scattered, wculd not be of sufficient size to attract
international bidders and would be constructed by a
combination of local competitive bidding, negotiated
contracts and force account in accordance with
Government's regular procedures. For such contracts
pre-established urit prices approved by each agency
would be acceptable. These agencies would then
undertake the work themselves (force account) or
select the private contractor best qualified to do
the job. Not more than the equivalent of US$60
million (67% of a total loan exclusive of credit)
would be let under local bidding. negotiated
contracts or by agency force account.
During negotiations, assurances vere obtairned from Government on these procure-
ment procedures.
H. Accounts, Monitoring and Auditing
3.39         In addition tc the regular annual budgetary allocation each agency
participating in the PIDER program receives a separate allocation at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year out of PIDER's budget to carry out the agreed program
of rural development in preselected regions throughout the country.  Separate
accounts for the PIDER program are kept by the Presidency, PIDER staff, the
Ministry of Finance and each participating agency to ensure there is no overlap
with the normal budgetary program. In addition, the Ministry of Finance would keep
separate accounts to cover the external financing of the program by the Bank
and IDB. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these separate
accounts would continue to be maintained.
3.40        To ensure that expenditures are actuaily carried out as
programmed and approved, separate supervision and authorization/control
divisions are established within PIDER. The supervision division is divided
into seven zones, the authorization/control group into an authorization and
a control and statistics section. The supervision division staff spend
considerable time in the field, especially -n check-ing expenditure against
estimates. The system of progress monitoring is curre-it_y being reviewed to
establishl a close link wicth the project evaluation studies carried out in-
dependently by CIDER (para. 4.06). Given diversity of the investments and
micro-regions being supported, a substanlial supervision effort by IBRD staff
has been programmed.
3.41        Each agency has its own auditin& section where all vouchers
and documents are checked and approved before payments are made. The accounts
of each agency are subject to independent auditing by the Ministry of Finance,
the President's office and the Ministry for National Patrimony.



- 22 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01        Principal responsibility for the Project is vested with the
Ministry of the Presidency. This Ministry, with final authority on the
public investment budget, started coordinating the activities of public
agencies 1/ in the rural sector on a pilot basis in 1969. While public
agencies traditionally selected individual projects within their overall
budget and operated independently with little or no coordination, their
activities within the selected micro-regions are now synchronized within
the framework of PIDER. At the same time the main participating agencies
have created special departments for rural development in close liaison
with the Presidency. In total, these agencies have about 2,700 professionals
working full-time on the execution of the PIDER programs in the selected
micro-regions. This PIDER program is organized at three levels.
A. Federal Level
4.02        The highest policy-making body of PIDER is a coordination com-
mittee chaired by the director of public investment of Presidencia and
comprising senior officials of the participating executing agencies (see
Annex 6, Chart 1). The coordinating committee is supported by a permanent
w,orking group of agency representatives at the technical level. The
permanent working group develops planning methodology and concepts, screens
the micro-region investment plans for consistency and handles operational
issues. The working group in turn is supported by a special staff of 45
technicians within the Presidency which is responsible for preparation of
individual investment plans and routine management operations and investment
monitoring tasks.
B. State Level
4.03        Program execution in the micro-regions is coordinated by state
committees consisting of the state delegates of the participating agencies
under the chairmanship of the respective Governors. Management responsibi-
lity is delegated to an executive secretary who serves simultaneously as the
state PIDER director. The secretary is assisted by a technical secretariat
of Presidency staff at the state level and delegated liaison officers from
the executing agencies. The technical secretariat is primarily responsible
for day-t6-day coordination of operations within the different micro-regions
and for maintaining close contact with local authorities.
2   Federal institutions participating at the federal and state levels
include: Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Public Works, Water
Resources and Health and Assistance; Agrarian Reform, Federal Electric
Commission, National Corporation for Basic Marketing, Committee for
Administration of the Federal School Construction Program, National
Arid Zones Commission, National Indigenous Institute, National
Institute for Rural Community Development and Low Cost Housing, and
the Ejido Bank.



- 23 -
C. Village/Ejido Level
4.o4        Local participation in the planning and execution of PIDER has
made rapid progress. This has been achieved through a variety of schemes,
depending on the political, social and administrative characteristics of the
micro-regions. As a rule, SRA field personnel take the lead in organizing
communities prior to the start of PIDER to ensure their full involvement.
In some cases, individual programs, e.g., feeder roads of the Ministry of Public
Works, small irrigation works of the Ministry for Hydraulic Resources, have
created village communities which can serve as a viable base for PIDER. Local
authorities, e.g., municipal chiefs, ejido presidents, teachers, are given
responsibilities according to the specific local circumstances, for organiza-
tion and supervision to promote their active involvement and to constitute an
independent information link to the state-level technical secretariat.
4.05        This three-tier organization provides the overall structure t6
carry out the various functions under the project. Experience to date
indicates that the system described works satisfactorily and without undue
inter-agency friction. Responsibilities are adequately delineated between
agencies. The appointment by PIDER of resident State and -- in some cases --
micro-region staff provides a direct coordinating link to the PIDER central
tier. In addition, such local-level staff provides PIDER and state-level
staff with a much more realistic assessment of ejido and village development
preferences. While the authority for selection of micro-regions and the approval
of the respective investment plans will remain at the central level, the
responsibility for plan preparation and coordination of the different
agencies is being taken over increasingly at the state level.  The indi-
vidual project works are executed by the appropriate public agency, as
determined by the central coordinating comnittee and concurred by the
state committee. Operation and maintenance, other than for larger works,
will be the responsibility of the benefiting communities. Project
implementation will be supervised at all three levels. While locally-
based PIDER staff would monitor continuously the progress of the Project,
the state committees would be informed independently by selected local
authorities. Federal level staff will, in addition, supervise progress
in the individual micro-regions on a routine basis,
4.o6        Evaluation.  A Center for Research in Rural Development (CIDER)
has been organized within the Presidency but independent from PIDER to
undertake evaluation and applied research tasks, to guide overall training
efforts and to diffuse information. For the purposes of evaluation, two
programs are being instituted.  The first is ex post,,  as the Center will
contract with Mexican and external research groups to do basic micro-region
evaluation studies. The second program is formative. CIDER will commit
"action teams" to field work in the micro-regions to evaluate project progress
for the purposes of information "feed forward" into micro-region reProgramming
exercises. For the training function, the Center will design various training
programs for the 2,700 staff of 14 agencies who are involved in executing



- 24 -
the PIDER program. These programs would be mainly micro-region-based and
focused on improving the local-level interaction between farmers and
government agency staff. Information from the ex poste and formative
evaluation will be introduced into this training program and diffused
through newsletters and other publications. During negotiations, agree-
ment was obtained that Government would undertake detailed evaluation of
the Project.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production, Yields and Marketable Surplus
5.01        The Project would support agricultural improvements relating
to both crop and livestock production of small farmers in the selected micro-
regions, including maize, beans, beef, milk, vegetables, fruits and honey.
Projected crop yields for the principal crops at full development compared
with yields under traditional agriculture without the Project are based on
experience in the Puebla region and on field trials and experience under similar
ecological conditions elsewhere in Mexico. Yield increases from existing
low levels would be facilitated under the Project by the improved training
provided for farmer-contact extension workers, more intensive trials and
demonstration of recommended practices on farmers' plots, and by provision
of credit and input delivery systems, seeds, fertilizers, etc., at the
village or ejido level. In addition, the development of irrigation facili-
ties on the semi-arid lands, where feasible, would permit major improvements
in crop yields relative to those achieved under rainfed conditions. Projected
yield improvements resulting from the Project for major crops in the categories
of irrigated, 1,200 mm rainfall and 800 mm rainfall are illustrated below:
Before         At Full
Unit         Development    Development
Maize (irrigated in
semi-arid area)          kg/ha             750          2,500
Beans (irrigated and
interplanted with
maize in semi-arid
area)                    kg/ha             200             500
Maize  (1,200 mm rainfall)       kg/ha           1,200           1,700
Beans  (1,200 mm rainfall
and interplanted)        kg/ha             300             400
Maize  (800 mm rainfall)         kg/ha             850           1,100



- 25 -
5.02        Incomes among the 120,000 farm producers benefiting directly
under the project average around US$440 per family. At this low level of
income, production for household subsistence accounts for roughly 70% of the
output on the farm. As farm output and income rise as a result of the Project
so marketed surplus should increase considerably. Nevertheless, it is antici-
pated that a substantial fraction of incremental production would be absorbed
as additional direct consumption by the farm household. Base-year production,
incremental production resulting from the project, and the projected increase
in marketed output of major cropsare shown in the table.
Base-        Incre-          Incremen-
Year         mental        tal marketed
Production    Production        Surplus
---------------1,000 tons-----------------
Maize
Irrigated                       -             60              40
Rainfed                      1,100           140              70
Beans                             70            40              20
Beef                              90            25              20
Fruits and vegetables             40            10               5
B. Markets and Prices
5.03        Most of the maize, beef, potatoes, and beans produced by the Project
would be consumed locally, either for subsistence or in the local towns and
villages. Larger neighboring towns, currently largely supplied from outside
the micro-region, also provide a ready market for extra beef, vegetable and
fruit production. Institutional arrangements and facilities relating to
marketing would also be strengthened and improved under the Project through
the provision of produce stores and warehouses. The marketing agency would
also undertake to purchase surplus maize and beans at official support prices
should this be necessary, thus providing a price floor. Incremental project
output would contribute 2% and 4% respectively to Mexico's production of maize
and beans.
C. Producer Income and Benefits
5.04        Starting from an average of US$440 per farm, the effect of the
Project should be to raise incomes over a development period of about eight
years to US$700 per farm on rainfed areas and to US$1,100 for families with
access to new irrigation works. There is likely to be considerable variation
in the increase attained, however, related mainly to the varying productive
potential of the micro-regions in respect of agriculture, particularly in



- 26 -
regard to opportunities for irrigation. Thus, financial returns are estimated
to vary from a low 15% in Baja California micro-region to as high as 37% in
San Luis Potosi, with the average estimated at 22%. For a typical ejido-based
farmer participating in the Project with a small (2 ha) amount of new irriga-
tion, his income increment of US$660 would be derived from the following
categories:
Categories                               Before Development   After Development
$                      $
Irrigation
(maize)                                                              420
Livestock
cattle                                        40                      60
bees                                          10                      20
other                                         10                      30
Rainfed
maize                                        330                     470
beans                                         40                      70
other
Fruit Production                                -                      20
Rural Industries & Other                       10                      20
Total                                      440                   1,100
The importance of irrigation is illustrated by the fact that a mix of on-farm
development activities without supplementary irrigation is estimated to raise
families' incomes to US$700, as opposed to US$1,100 under irrigation. This
reinforces the PIDER investment emphasis given to small-scale irrigation under
the program. Presidency empirical data indicate that irrigation on small farms
may increase their net incomes 5 times and labor requirements from one
man-month per ha per annum on rainfed plots to nearly 9 man-months per ha
per annum on irrigated plots.
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
5.05        Government would recover a total amount of US$150 million of ori-
ginal investments, or 51% of Project costs, leaving an initial fiscal impact of
US$144 million, excluding interest. The costs of maintaining and operating



- 27 -
directly productive infrastructure would be borne fully by beneficiaries.
They would also be charged with the full operating costs for marketing,
electricity, drinking water and self-help projects, and would contribute
to health and education. At full development, the additional fiscal burden
for Government would be US$6.7 million per annum, a small part of which (10%)
would be offset through additional tax revenues as a result of incremental
production and income from the Project. For the direct beneficiaries,
average per capita expenditures would be some US$10.
5.o6        Specific investments  under the Project would be recovered from
beneficiaries as follows (see also Annex 9):
a. Directly Productive Investment. While aiming at maximum
recovery of original investment costs especially in
irrigation, the responsible agencies - SAG and SRH - would
determine repayment capacity project by project. Since
the Project's target group is the rural poor, who will
need part of the income increase to meet their subsistence
needs, ho% of directly productive investments would
be recovered.
b. Credit. Government would follow established repayment and
interest rate policies, leading to full recovery.
c. Productive Support Investments. No direct recovery is
expected for feeder roads, extension and farm organization.
CFE user charges would enable full investment recovery for
electrification.
d. Social Infrastructure. Apart from community participation
in the construction of health, water supply, education and
self-help projects, no investment recovery is expected for
these components.
E. Ecological and External Effects
5.07        A portion of the Project (11%) is directed at improving range,
land and water management. Particular attention is being given to soil protec-
tion works in order to address an erosion problem of increasing severity. The
cattle component in the semi-arid and arid areas would contribute to some
temporary destocking of overgrazed pastures leading to improved range manage-
ment. The fertilizer and insecticides to be used in the Project would have
only a small effect on the local ecology given normal precaution in their
use. Soil and water conservation works would be directed at reducing soil
erosion, a significant problem in a number of the rural areas of Mexico.
Some of the materials for the self-help component would be used for the
construction of sanitation facilities for villages.



- 28 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Rate of Return
6.o0        Economic rates of return under the Project have been calculated
on the basis of typical ejido or village models for representative micro-
regions. The average economic rate of return is 16% varying by micro-region
from 11% to 23%. The calculations include on the cost side the indirectly
productive investments in infrastructure and services as well as the directly
productive on-farm investments. Thus, the costs of electrification, exten-
sion, farmer organization, feeder roads, and markets have been charged
against the benefit stream. While, however, the estimated production increases
are unlikely to be fully achieved without the inclusion of these items in the
total investment package, the calculation does not capture all the benefits
arising from the availability of these facilities, since their use is not
confined to Project investments or activities. For this reason the rate of
return estimates may be somewhat conservative.
6.02        Costs associated with the provision of improved public amenities
and social services - for health, education, water supply and electricity -
have not been charged against project benefits. This is mainly because it
was not possible to construct plausible estimates of productive benefits due
to provision of these services nor the monetary equivalent of the direct user
benefits associated with the consumption of improved services. Thus, short-
and long-term benefits to production arising from the improvement in health
conditions and the diffusion of functional literacy (important though these are
thought to be) have not been allowed for in the estimates of productivity
increase among the small farmers. The importance of these services as a
stimulus to co-operative arrangements and community associations - for example,
the Water Users Committees and the village associations for the construction of
feeder roads and soil conservation works - merits special mention, however.
Experience and confidence gained in these types of association would spill
over to improve and enhance the prospects for successful co-operative efforts
among producers. The encouragement and support given to such associations is
one of the important and innovative features of the PIDER program.
6.03        These social infrastructure investments have been planned: (i) so
as to provide each community with a minimum package of social services required
to avoid constraints to its economic and social development; and (ii)to raise
on average access to water, health and electrification from current levels
of about 45% to 60%, the latter about the overall averag6 for rural Mexico.
These social services have the immediate benefits of making producers more
productive (health, drinking water) and of enhancing community development (self-
help materials). But their most substantial, though unquantifiable, benefit
is that these social services reinforce the basis for sustained development in
the long run (education, electricity), laid by the project's productive invest-
ments.



- 29 -
604.        In calculating the economic cost of labor, shadow prices varying by
micro-region from 70% of the minimum daily wage down to 40% were used.  The
differences reflect mainly the relative uniformity of officially-determined
wage minima vis-a-vis variations in the minimum supply price of labor, the
latter being influenced by severity of rural underemployment. Since, however,
labor costs account for only 20% of total investment costs, alternative assump-
tions regarding these shadow wage rates would have limited impact on the
calculated rates of return. From the sensitivity analysis, in Sinaloa, for
example, the effect of a general 20% increase in investment costs would be to
reduce the rate of return from 16% to 12%; alternatively, the effect of a 20%
increase in operating costs would be to reduce the return to 13%. Details on
methodology and assumptions used in calculating the economic rates of return
are provided in Annex 8, together with results of the sensitivity analysis
applied.
B. Project Risks
6.05        The Project has risks.  While two-thirds of the micro-regions
would be in the higher rainfall areas (over 700 mm annually), the remaining
third would be located in areas with less rain. In these latter areas, the
introduction of irrigation, pasture improvement and water conservation works
would be emphasized to reduce farmer risks. There is some uncertainty with
regard to farmer response to new technical packages being field tested under
the Project for improving rainfed maize and bean production in these less favored
areas. Improved field demonstration closely tied with deepened extension efforts
under the Project would be emphasized under the Project to minimize this
uncertainty. Secondly, while on average the estimated rates of return at
micro-region level embody expectations about final outcomes that are reasonable
and realistic, nevertheless, the calibre of local leadership and staff involved
under the program will bear importantly on these outcomes. It would be
unrealistic to suppose that staff and leadership quality will be uniform.
So in some regions expectations may be disappointing, while in others
better than anticipated results should be achieved.  Again, however,
the PIDER coordinating mechanism has demonstrated a capacity to respond quickly
and flexibly to problems of execution, and the recently-established research
center (CIDER) will undertake major evaluation efforts as a basis for ongoing
adaptation of the program in the light of changing needs and circumstances.
Moreover, the Project would emphasize the activities of SRA-supported self-
help activities, and creation of community-based user's associations and
the development of local leadership capabilities in order to improve the
probability that the Project investments and services would eventually lead
to a self-sustaining development momentum at the local level.
6.06        These risks seem worth taking in the light of the anticipated bene-
fits under the Project that would accrue to low income people. To s-ummarize
these, farm incomes of about 120,000 farmers - accounting for more than a
660,000 total population with their family members - would approximately double
as a result of the Project. For those farmers benefiting from the
30,000 ha of irrigation, their incames may triple from current levels to full
development.  In addition, some 30,000 permanent jobs would be created,
mainly due to the expansion of small-scale irrigation systems.



'- Jsc -
Some 84,000 man-years of work would result from the construction activities
under the Project, a portion of which would benefit landless groups living in
the micro-regions. The Project would provide access to basic public services
in the 30 selected micro-regions. Some 170,000 people would directly benefit
from improved drinking water and from rural electrification. Furthermore,
some 60,000 children would get access to improved primary education and 750,000
persons to basic health services. The materials for self-help projects would
be made available to about 85,000   people in the selected micro-regions.
While for cost reasons it is not possible to fully service the micro-region
population with all public services, full health coverage would be provided in
three micro-regions on a pilot basis as part of the first-phase implementation
of the new national health plan.
6.07        Benefits from the Integrated Approach.  Finally, the realization
of a decentralized, integrated approack to development, on such a large scale,
is itself an important innovation in dealing with the problem of mass rural
poverty. Before PIDER, no mechanism for local-level coordination existed,
and agencies operated largely in isolation from each other. Prior to PIDER,
a number of government agencies had on-going development programs in the rural
areas, such as SRH, CFE and SOP. Each agency had developed its own criteria
for selecting target regions. As a result, there was little integration
among the efforts of various programs in rural roads, electrification, credit,
irrigation, extension and agrarian reform. Under PIDER, however, there is a
much closer liaison in both planning and especially execution among these
agencies in  order to fulfill the aim of PIDER of institutional coordination
of strengthened programs directed at sustaining a rural development process
for large numbers of rural poor. For example, SRA and extension services
are operating together in a micro-region, CFE and SRH coordinate the timing
of irrigation and electrification so that pumps are not installed and have to
wait for wiring and SOP and SAG are beginning to coordinate their labor-intensive
feeder road and soil conservation works so as not to be competing for labor
at the same time. CONASUPO is better able to schedule the routes of mobile
stores so as to coincide with SAG and SOP paydays in the micro-regions.
Finally, without the PIDER integrated approach, the efficiency of services,
such as extension, health, etc., would be significantly reduced.
6.08        Thus, the PIDER micro-region planning and execution process filled
a missing link - that of focusing overall agency direction and organization
around a realistic micro-region program of action. The preparation and sub-
sequent execution of such plans thius serve a catalytic function - causing
existing and new agency programs to-gel on an integrated basis. While these
qualitative benefits of PIDER are impossible to quantify ex ante, they are
some of the most important benefits to be expected from the Project. CIDER
and the Bank will be giving close attention to these aspects in its evalua-
tion work.



- 31 -
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
a. the criteria for directly productive activities outlined
from paras 3.12 to 3.21 would be followed;
b. productive support criteria described in paras 3.22 to
3.26 would be followed;
c. criteria for social infrastructure laid out in paras 3.28
to 3.31 would be followed;
d. the cost sharing given in para 3.33 would be followed;
e. the procurement procedures outlined in para 3.37 would
be followed;
f. PIDER and executing agencies would maintain separate
Project Accounts (para 3.39); and
g. an evaluation of Project progress would be carried out
(para 4.06).
7.02        With the indicated assurances, the proposed Project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$110 million equivalent, for a term
of 25 years, including five years of grace.



ANNEX la
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER
SUMMARY APPRAISAL OF ZACAPOAXTLA (PUEBLA) MICRO-REGION
I. Background
The Zacapoaxtla micro-region is located in the northern, mountainous,
part of the State of Puebla. The sub-tropical climate is humid with rainfall
between 1,000 and 1,600 mm. About 74,000 people   live in seven"counties"
covering 596 square kilometers. The population density - 123 persons/km2 - is
among the highest in rural Mexico. The micro-region comprises 97 villages,
of which 90 have between 100 and 2,5DO inhabitants.
The main economic activity of Zacapoaxtla is rainfed agriculture.
The rainfall and soil conditions are adequate enough to grow such crops as
maize, beans, fruit and coffee. Only 2,000 ha, out of the 2h,000 ha avail-
able for agriculture and forestry are organized in ejidos. The remaining
22,000 ha are divided into 12,500 small landholdings averaging 1.8 ha.
Production techniques are extremely primitive. Slopes of 20 to 30% as well
as population density prevent the use of energy input other than human labor
and draft animals.
The economy is basically subsistence agriculture. Outside the
cities of Cuetzalan and Zacapoaxtla, which serve as market centers for the
entire area, exchange activities are restricted to a few items such as
soap, sugar, candles, salt and maize. Communications - especially from one
valley to another - are difficult if not impossible. Rural poverty is
apparent throughout the region. Underemployment is chronic and only
partially alleviated by migration out of the region between April and
October. The daily wage rate for unskilled labor during the harvest period
varies between US$0.50 and US$1.20.
About half of the population living in this micro-region have
received no schooling whatsoever and can be considered as illiterate.
There are only two high schools and only 31 complete primary schools, most
of which are located in the municipios of Zacapoaxtla and Cuetzalan. There
is no transportation from the rural areas to the schools located in those
two cities. No technical training in agricultural or handicraft skills is
available in the micro-region.
Communications problems are compounded by the existence of an
important group - 28% of total population - who speak only an indigenous
language - nahuatl or totonaco. The INI (Instituto Nacional Indigenista)



AINNEX 1 a
Page 2
is running a crash program of Spanish courses designed to prepare indigenous
children to enter primary school. The program has so far been held back by
the lack of bilingual teachers. The language problem goes certainly a long
way to explain the low efficiency of primary education in the micro-region.
The health conditions prevailing in Zacapoaxtla are below the
average of other rural areas in the country. The infant mortality rate is
close to 45 per thousand. There are only three health centers in the micro-
region and a fourth one is being built. None of them have means of trans-
portation. All other communities lack even the most elementary forms of
health care facilities.
II. Resources
In the Zacapoaxtla micro-region, neither the climate nor the soil
conditions are bottlenecks to an increase in agricultural output. The
ability of the region to take advantage of its potentialities rests on
relatively simple technological improvements such as planting corn and beans
at the appropriate time of the year, adopting better plan density and
fertilization levels and, more generally, turning to labor intensive cultiva-
tion as exemplified in the Plan Puebla experiments.
Farmers responsiveness to technological improvements can be expected
to be high since the initial levels of corn yields are half those of the Plan
Puebla area and population consciousness of its needs and pressure for a
better standard of living are high. Experiments carried out in 1973 by Plan
Puebla-Zacapoaxtla show preliminary results as good as, or better, than those
achieved by Plan Puebla. But Zacapoaxtla requires some additional techno-
logical ingredients, especially as regards to soil conservation.
In addition to traditional crops, new crops could be developed
without calling in for costly investments or production techniques. A good
example is the cultivation of potatoes which has recently been introduced
as a commercial crop in the southern half of the micro-region which has an
appropriate climate. Corn usually follows potatoes on the same land as a
second crop. This type of land use may actually double farmers' cash income.
The region has also potentialities for fruit-tree production which
could be developed into a commercial, labor-intensive activity. Research on
modern fruit tree production techniques other than traditional farm methods
could be carried out to develop several new fruit tree species (besides
avocados), that are not presently cultivated as commercial plantations.
Commercial fruit tree plantations would also contribute to better soil
conservation and may provide economical justification for additional invest-
ments as well as technical assistance.



ANNEX 1a
Page 3
III. Micro-Region Development Strategy
The overall development objectives of the Zacapoaxtla micro-region
are similar to those of other micro-regions eligible for PIDER investments.
They consist of increasing employment, production and income levels of the
populations concerned as cost-effectively as possible. This micro-region,
however, has a number of distinctive characteristics which can be summed up
as follows:
a. Extreme economic and cultural backwardness coexists
with the presence of a mostly indigenous population.
b. The medium-term future lies in intensification of
rainfed agricultural activities as few other
resources exist.
c. The region has two "exports"1: coffee and labor.
d. The infrastructure level is below any reasonable
standards.
These features call for additional cautiousness in the provision
of investments. The difficulties to ensure local coordination and efficient
use of investments will be greater in Zacapoaxtla than elsewhere. Technical
assistance thus receives a major focus in the regionts development program.
The development strategy tailored to meet the needs of the
Zacapoaxtla micro-region thus gives a high priority to (i) increasing
production through better cultivation techniques of current crops and
introducing new marketable crops such as potatoes and fruits; (ii) bridging
the infrastructure gap, starting with feeder roads in order to connect all
communities with the market towns of Zacapoaxtla and Cuetzalan; and
(iii) providing the kind of technical assistance required to coordinate
investments, ensure the propagation of technical innovations and enlist
communitiest participation.
Agricultural Intensification. A major thrust of the strategy is
intensification of rainfed crop production through an adaption of Plan
Puebla experience to the conditions of the Zacapoaxtla region. Plan
Zacapoaxtla, a program of technical assistance to farmers, was designed to
achieve these objectives. The main thrust of this Plan is (i) to carry out
research programs on the crops of the micro-region (corn, bean, potatoes)
as well as on fruit production, (ii) to implement technological innovations
and (iii) to promote the use of credit to finance the inputs required by
farmers willing to improve their technology. This Plan, which has replaced
SAG's traditional extension services in the area, will also act as a
coordinator of the investments made by this agency in the field of soil
conservation, supplementary irrigation, fruit production and livestock
improvement centers. The ultimate goal oL Plan Zacapoaxtla, which will
benefit heavily from the experience gained under Plan Puebla, is to increase
yields in the following manner:



AWINEX la
Page 4
Tons/ha       1972       1977
Corn
corn        1.0        1.6
stalks      0.3        4.0
Beans         0.13       0.16
Potatoes       -         5.0
Avocados      1.0         7.0
It should be noted that these forecasts of yield increases fo-r grain are
based on those achieved by Plan Puebla. As Plan Zacapoaxtla will be able
to draw on the experience gained by Plan Puebla, they are probably on the
conservative side. This Plan will also seek to organize farmers locally
in order to enable them to apply for financial assistance from agricultural
credit agencies.
In 1974, the Plan has already over 60 demonstrationplots selected
among cooperating farmers' own plots to test fertilization levels, plant
density and varieties of each crop.
Demonstration Plots of Plan Zacapoaxtla
Rainfed Agriculture
1. Productivity Levels        Number        Season
Maize and beans           30         Winter
Potatoes                  10         Wdinter
Lentils and/or barley     10          Winter
2. New Varieties
Potatoes                    6         Winter
14heat and barley           5         Winter
Total                61
In terms of extension, the goal of Plan Zacapoaxtla is to reach
25% of the corn-growing area in four years.  In the light of the experience
gained under Plan Puebla, where it took six years to reach 15% of the
population - or to cover 20,000 ha - this objective may appear as overly
ambitious.  However, the target population - 12,000 producers and 10,200 ha
of corn - is smaller in this case. Furthermore, Plan Zacapoaxtla is
expected to draw heavily from the experience accumulated under Plan Puebla.
IV. Micro-Region Investment Program
Owing to the aforementioned characteristics of the Zacapoaxtla
micro-region the investment program designed to implement the development
strategy is balanced between the three categories.



AhNqJX 1a
Page 5
Zaca2oayta  'L4ir-Rego
Total   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
Directly Productive /      32.1    15.2   19.0   24.8  51.5  614.2
Production Support         31.1    25.0   39.5   40.9   17.8   23.1
Social Infrastructure      33.6    59.8   40.7   30.4   1565   5.5
Project Administration      3.1      -      o.8    3.9    5.2    7.1
2/ Credit would be additional
The rough topography and the low educational level of the micro-
region call for additional investment in feeder roads and agricultural
extension, thus boosting the share of productive support investment in total
investment. Additional investments are also required to finance
supporting social infrastructure, In the area of productive investment, the
climatic conditions render the financing of sophisticated irrigation schemes
unnecessary, but strong population pressure coupled with scarcity of crop-
land require many micro-investments, especially soil conservation works
designed to facilitate the shift towards more intensive use of land.
The relative shares of directly productive, productive support and
social infrastructure in the five-year investment program designed for the
Zacapoaxt'a micro-region vary over the time period of the development plan.
The first two years of implementation of the program show that it has been
easier to deliver productive support and social infrastructure investment
than directly productive investment. This phasing of investment is justified
in the view that the latter type of investment is unlikely to yield benefits
unless physical communications and educational levels are first improved
through roads, education and extension. As a consequence, the share of
directly productive investments will increase in the coming years as other
types of investments are gradually phased out.
Municipalities not only have a role in identifying vi'llage needs
but can also serve as catalysts to foster farmers' organizations. In the
past, municipalities helped to set up water and soil conservation organiza-
tions as well as credit associations. They are instrumental in defining
local contributions to PIDER investments and act as intermediaries to collect
such contributions. For instance, soil conservation terraces built in 1974
incorporated a local contribution in labor from the beneficiaries equivalent
to about 10% of their costs. This labor contribution from beneficiaries
could be larger if municipalities were more adequately briefed by representa-
tives of federal agencies about the notential benefits to be derived from
such investments as well as about the overall strategy envisaged for the
micro-region. In this area of fruit production, for instance, the fruit
tree saplings distributed in 1973 were planted after the primitive terrace
construction were prepared by the peasants themselves, and cared for with
very little or no technical assistance.



ANNEX la
Page 6
V. Local Level Organization and Participation
For example, at the local level, municipal presidents are
indispensable channels of information for federal agencies. In one area
at least, the municipio of Xochiapulco, their knowledge of the problems of
the village proved to be a valuable ingredient to the planning process.
The president of this village, a former school teacher, showed substantial
interest in the program and complained about some of its deficiencies. He
was obviously a respected leader and had a highly analytical approach to
local problems of production, marketing and supplies of agricultural inputs
(especially fertilizers) and consumer's goods. This example may suggest
that true community leaders can very well share some of the investment
decisions and responsibilities provided that representatives of all public
agencies are capable and, indeed, willing to incorporate their views into
the decision-making process.
VI. Benefits
There is little doubt that the Zacapoaxtla micro-region is one of
the poorest of all micro-regions eligible for financing under the PIDER
program. The economic strategy outlined above to help the country to make
the transition from a subsistence, self-consumption economy to a market-
oriented economy relies on rainfed, labor-intensive agriculture. In this
connection, although the potentialities of the micro-region look promising,
their implementation implies drastic shifts in land use and production
techniques. Whether or not such shifts will take place in due time depends,
to a large extent, on the amount and quality of technical assistance
provided to farmers. This is why the ability of the technical assistance
team appointed under Plan Zacapoaxtla to reach small farmers will be a
decisive factor in the success or failure of the whole investment program.
It is also clear that the proposed investment program of US$8.58
million during the 1973-77 period is not intended to support an inward-looking
type of development. This micro-region is simply too poor to live in economic
autarky and no amount of investment can actually relax such a basic constraint
as the deteriorating population/land ratio. The micro-region needs the out-
side world not only to market its coffee and fruit production but as an outlet
for its surplus labor. In this respect, the sole ambition of the proposed
investment package is to stop the continuous deterioration of the employment
picture.
T22loyment. The investment Drogram described above is expected to
have a sizeable impact on the temporary employment situation of the micro-region.
It is clear, however, that neither the temporary employment arlsing fr r, the
irnvestment program nor the permanent additional employment resulting from
shlifts towards more efficient land use and more intensive agriculture will
be sufficient to solve the very severe employment problem of this micro-
region. By and large, it is estimated that the total employment generated
cy the program will just offset the increasing labor ar.ailability due to
p L1alationi rpressure.



ANNEX 1a
Page 7
All in all, residual unemployment per family will decrease from
1 .05 man-years before the launching of the program to 0.96 man-years when
the program is completed.
As far as feasibility is concerned, past performance demonstrates
that all the public agencies concerned have the capability to deliver the
investment required by the program in due time. Clearly, some agencies are
better organized than others   SSA, for instance, needs to clarify its
policies in the health sector. NIT has yet to show that it can run the
physical facilities built by other agencies in an efficient manner. Although
initial difficulties caused delays to start work in some areas, the mission
believes that, by and large, the overall ability to implement planned invest-
merits can be rated as satisfactory.
't was noted that this ability is clearly above the average as far
as feeder roads and social infrastructure investment are concerned. In the
coming years, the effort of the coordination should focus more decisively on
directly productive investment. To deliver such investment in a coordinated
manner will be a difficult task owing to the backwardness of the micro-
region. This is, nevertheless, the inescapable and crucial test that PIDER
has now to face in the Zacapoaxtla micro-region.
An actual case analysis of an ejido Atzalan made by PIDEP staff is
summarized below:
Zacapoaxtla Puebla
Ejido Alzalan (131 families)
-US$ per Family------
Before Dev.         After Dev.
Maize     Maize                            220               320
Beans                            80               140
Potatoes                         50                90
Fruit                            _                130
Total                           350               680
Financial Rate of Return - 17%



Annex lb
Page 1
-MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY APPRAISAL OF SUR DE NUEVO LEON MICRO-REGION
Background
Duality Between State and Micro-Region. The Sur de Nuevo Leon micro-region
(Surnel) is located in the southern part of the state of Nuevo Leon. Its
population and economic activity is concentrated in Monterrey, the state
capital. Nuevo Leon has a total populafion of 1,695,000 inhabitants, of
which 78% live in the Monterrey metropolitan area. Furthermore, 82% of the
state labor force is employed in the industrial and service sectors, which
together contribute substantially to the state average family income of
US$1,815 per year.
In contrast, the micro-region is characterized by a subsistence agriculture
economy which comprises 80% of the economically active population and 7% of the
state's total population. Surnel's backwardness and its duality with Monterrey
are reflected in an equivalent 60% family unemployment rate and average family
income of US$825 per year.
Micro Region Selection Criteria. Though Nuevo Leon has two other areas that
are potential candidates for the PIDER program, Surnel is clearly the state's
poorest micro-region.
Surnel's Resource Base. Surnel's relative,y low family income levels are
characteristic of its five muncipalitiesl and its 113,000 inhabitants. Their
poverty is largely explained by an under-utilized resource base. Specifically,
the area's development bottlenecks have consisted primarily of a shortage of
water (average rainfall of 500 mm per year), of soils that are typical of an
arid area, and of the absence of basic physical infrastructure, productive
inputs and adequate technical assistance. However, Surnel's development resource
potential is comprised of 103,000 ha of cultivable area (for corn, beans and
fruit production) of whibh 10% represents an irrigated area. Both rainfed
and irrigated agriculture production have yet to be fully exploited by the
area's 14,500 ejidatarios and 3,000 small private farmers. Furthermore, Surnel's
500,000 ha of grazing land and iO2.000 head of eattle offer an already existing base
for an improved cattle and pasture management program that would make possible
1/ A municipality is equ_3vaIi-j- J1o a county that has dist'nct geo-political
divisiors .wi T:hL a state



Arimex 0
Page 2
a significant increase in the marketable quantity of livestock prodcLltiun.
Objectives and Strategy. The PIDER project is a direct response to lessening
the dualities between Surnel and the rest of the state and to Surnel's
underutilized productive potential.  Specificel;-, the miero-region progrr
objectivres are to:
(a) increase levels of income and employment;
(b)  improve social infrastructure and services; and
(c)  promote state and local participation in development decision-
making.
The strategy devised to achieve these goals is through:
-   (a)  a "big-push" and "growth pole" approach to providing the directly
productive physical infrastructure and conmplementary productive
support investments in order to imore productively exploit
Surnel's existent and potential resource base.
(b)  the creation of temporary employment opportunities during the
gestation period of the investments;
(c) the provision of social infrastructure investments that
would lessen the gaps between the state and Surnel;
(d) establishment of an organizational base (e.g., coordination
of agencies, of ongoing technological research results with
a competent extension service, and the promotion of local
participation) to efficiently oversee PIDER's allocations.
Investment Program. Based on a sound development strategy and a micro-regional
resource profile, the State Coordinating Group has carefully formulated an
integrated investment program. It calls for the investment of M$152.2 million
(US$12.2) over the period 1973-19760 Of this total: (i) 47% will be invested
in directly productive infrastructure whereby livestock and irrigated related
projects comprise 86% of this amount. The remainder of this category will be
allocated for soil and water conservation works, fruit-tree production, and
rural industries. (ii) 28% will be appropriated for productive support, items,
roughly distributed even among feeder roads, agricultural research and extension
service, and farmer organization. (iii) 22% is earmarked for social infra-
structure, with a particular emphasis on providing drinking water facilities.
Through a favorably "equity-efficiency" investment and scheduling balance,
the project:
(a) will have widespread impact bydirectJuybenfiting 67% of
Surnel's population (US$145 per beneficiary);
(b) for the most part, has the type and extent of investments that
are designated in areas and communities according to the suit-
ability of their resource potential;



Annex lb
Prge 3
(c) provides assurance that the public works labor require-
menrts do not conflict with labor avilability.
In addition, ongoing applied research is developing technological packages that
are appropriate to Surnel's various eological areas.
Organization and Management. On the basis of mission field visits and
subsequent evaluation, the outstanding feature of the Surnel project is the
State Coordinating Techmical Group. The resourcefulness of its staff and
the decentralization of funds have given this group the power and influence
to command the respect and cooperation of the 13 federal and state partici-
pating agencies. Furthermore, the Group's philosophical approach (i.e.
encouraging self-determination of beneficiaries throagh local participation in
project planning and execution) is largely responsible for the target population's
enthusiastic support for the Project. Their favorable attitude towards self-
development has been confirmed by an attitudinal study undertaken by the
Group's sociologist.
Benefits and Justification. The ejido model developed to be representative
of SurnelI has served as the basis for projecting the project's mnicro regional
benefits and costs.  Under varying cost assurmptions, the financial rate of
return ranges from 12.15% to 7.95%, while the economic rate of return spans
from 13.40 to 10.10.
Summary of Surnel's Rates of Return Analysis (%)
Financial Rate of Return:
+ 10% for investment + 20% for investment + 20% for operating
costs                  costs                  costs
12.15                   1035                   8.85                  7.95
Economic Rate of Return:
lo Directly Productive and Productive Support
13.240                  11.50                 10.45                  10.10
Annual incremental production benefits at full development are projected
at 5,400 tons of corn (33% increase), 1,500 tons of beef (90%-increase of live-
weight beef), 3 tons of fruit (100% increase), and 168 tons of honey (100%
increase)0
Nearly 76% of the micro-regionts population of 113,000 will directly
benefit from the project with an increase of family income and with access to
improved social infrastructure. Some 4,620 man-years of temporary labor and
700 man-years per year of permanent labor would be created under the Project.



Anmex lb
Page 4
An actual detailed budget analysis of the Ejido Milagro
submitted in their reprogrammed micro-region analysis is suwmmarized
below:
Sur de Nuevo Leon
Ejido Milago
55 families (300 people)
- - - -US$/family- - - -
Category                        Before Dev.      After Dev.
Livestock
Produjction
Cattle                            _              130
Rainfed
Maize                            325             200
Beans                            125             210
Fruit                             -              160
Irrigated
Fruit                             _              600
Total                              450           1,300
Financial Rate of Return =   18.4%
Productive Investment Cost per Family US$6,900



Page 1
1EXICO
RWUi.LI DEVELOPITNT PROJECT
COSALA-EIJOTA, 3S-ALOA MICOR-fEGI'NT
SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The Cosala-Elota micro-region covers three counties having a
total area of 5,6h0 km2. The micro-region straddles two topographical
regions:  the coastal plain and the western slopes of the Sierra Madre
Occidental. The county of Cosala is wholly in the mountainous area, Elota
is entirely on the coastal plain and San Ignacio is about equally divided
between coastal plain and mountainous terrain.
2.        The micro-region has a populption of 55,000 people who are among
the poorest inhabitants of the prosperous agricultural state of Sinaloa.
Average family income is about US$500 (as compared to US$800 for ejido
families in irrigated districts and over US$1,000 in urban areas); 52% of
all families have annual incomes below US$479 and only 10% have incomes
exceeding US$960. The absence of irrigation (and of the services associated
with it) is the major cause for the relative poverty of the micro-region.
Low income levels in turn prevent the populatiorn from improving its living
condition through the self-financing of economic and social infrastructure.
The Micro-Region
3.        The micro-region is located half-way between Culiacan and Mazatlan,
from the Pacific to the border of the state of Durango. It has a significant
productive potential which could be realised through a more rational use of
the areas major resources; the labor force and the land. The micro-region
has an economically active population of about 15,000 of which about 12,000
are in agriculture. This labor force is fully employed for only about 100
days at the peak of the agricultural cycle 1/. Since on-farm employment is
often insufficient to yield a reasonable income, many ejidatarios from the
highlands migrate seasonally in search of work in the irrigated valleys and
plains. Some off-farm employment is available in the coastal part of the
micro-region where small areas totalling 3,000-4,000 ha are irrigated.
PIDER's justification for investing in the micro-region is based on the fact
that ecological conditions are favorable enough so that even without wide-
spread irrigation, higher incmes are possible. Except for a narrow coastal
strip which gets little rain (300 mm) but is suitable for irrigation, rainfall
in the micro-region averages 700 mm per year and may reach 1,200 mm in certain
areas.
1/ Underemployment on a year round basis averages 40-45% of the available
labor force: it varies from 20-25% in the coastal areas where the small
irrigated area is concentrated to 60% in Cosala which is entirely in
the highlands.



ANNEX _C
Page 2
4.        The other major factor of production which is also underemployed
is land.  Almost 300,000 ha of land, roughly 40 ha per family, are available
for development (of these, 40,000 ha could be used for agriculture and the
rest is suitable for orchards and/or grazing). Development of this land
could result in a ten-fold increase in exploited land per family (up from
the present 4-5 ha). Herd management and pasture improvement would result
in a large increase in the livestock population and the off-take rate and
would assist in erosion control.
5.        The Cosala-Elota micro-region is broadly representative
of three more micro-regions (within Sinaloa) at various stages of
implementation. Computations based on a representative integrated ejido
development model yielded a financial rate of return of 20.6 and an.economic
rate of return of 14.75% 2/.  In order that this potential be realized,
the basic infrastructure must be made available but access to ancillary
services such as credit, extension and distribution of modern farm inputs
is just as crucial.
Development Objectives and Strategy
6.        PIDER has four main goals in this micro-region: (i) increase incomes;
(ii) raise the level of on- and off-farm employment; (iii) improve the quality
of rural life; and (iv) diminish the importance of rural-urban migration 2/.
A three-pronged basic strategy was devised to reach these goals. First, to
promote a gradual increase in the amount of land under crops, improved pastures
and orchards, with irrigation whenever feasible. Second, to increase produc-
tivity (in crops and animal production) in presently exploited areas and in
newly incorporated ones through agricultural extension and training, credit,
marketing services and the use of modern farm inputs. Third, to create
temporary employment of two to three years' duration (and to promote savings
out of these earnings) in order to bridge the gap between the initiation of
productive projects and the time they start yielding their fruits. This
temporary employment will diminish seasonal migration and create useful
infrastructure (such as roads, soil and water conservation countours, etc.,
in addition to directly productive infrastructure).
7.        Among the six micro-regions appraised in June 1974, Cosala-Elota is
the one with the highest existing income levels. This fact may explain why
the population tended to insist on social infrastructure rather more strongly
than was the case elsewhere. In part for this reason, the first two years
of PIDER were relatively weighed in favor of productive support and social
infrastructure, while initiation of projects with longer gestation periods
(e.g., irrigation) were also started.
1/ A statistical profile of the micro-region is included, together with a
summary of the PIDER investment plan.
2/ Permanent out migration from the micro-region usually starts as seasonal
migration; many families just never return to their (highland) villages.



ANNEX 1C
Page 3
8.        In the mission's view, the strategy is adequate and reflects
grosso modo, the possibilities of the micro-region.
PIDER Investment Plan and Expected Results
9.        The strategy described above is presently being implemented
through the micro-region investment plan. It calls for the investment of
US$10.6 million over the period 1973-77. Of this total, 52% will be
invested in directly productive infrastracture such as livestock, irrigated
crops and fruit trees, and beekeeping, 28% will be for productive support
facilities such as roads and marketing outlets, and 19% will be for social
infrastructure such as schools, drinking water and village electrification.
Program coordination will require 1% of the total. The fulfillment of the
directly productive share of the investment plan will require an additional
US$5.5 million in long-term development credit over the period 1973-79 and
US$12.2 million in incremental short-term production credit over the period
1973-80. This investment program will directly increase the incomes of
approximately 2,800 families living in 30 ejidos (out of the 90-95 ejidos
existing in the micro-region). The total number of people directly benefited
(including about 1,000 non-ejido smallholders) will be 14-15,000 and about
1,000 new permanent jobs will be created at full development (in 7-8 years)
excluding temporary emplo-yment during the investment period and recurring
part-time labor needs frequently encountered in agro-pastoral activities.
Organization and Management
10.       In order to implement the Plan, PIDER developed an organizational
structure consisting of federal and state officials and local leaders (of
municipios and ejidos).  Its role is to implement the Plan, supervise, co-
ordinate and monitor its execution and train and motivate peasants and their
leaders to participate. The Vocal Ejecutivo is the chief executive officer
of the Comite Estatal (State Coordinating Committee) under the ex-officio
chairmanship of the Governor. The Vocal is assisted by a Grupo Tecnico
(Technical Support Groap) hired, trained and paid by PIDER. The Technical
Support Group is appointed to conduct the day-to-day tasks of supervision
and coordination in conjunction with Dependencia employees and local leaders.
Local leadership was fairly heavily involved in the wnole process, an ex-
ceptional state of affairs. It was the mission's impression that the State
Committee was functioning well and that adequate supervision and coordination
was taking place. The interest and the involvement of the local population 1/,
together with the excellent quality of state level leadership, are significant
factors making for a high likelihood of successful Plan,implementation.
a
1/ The fact that the population is relatively well educated and motivated
compared to other micro-regions makes the economic loss from its low
employment all the more significant.



ANNEX 1D
Page
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
SIUR DE YUCATAN MfNICR0-REGI0N
SUMMY
Introduction
1.        The Sur de Yucatan micro-region has 25,000 inhabitants, most;y
Maya speaking, (see Map IBRD, 1418),  spread over an area of 4,730 km  of
which only a small fraction is ceiared and under crops. Slash and burn
shifting agriculture is practised using planting sticks, the same techniques
employed by their ancestors 1,000 years ago--and with just about the same
results, namelr, 600-700 kg of maize per hectare.  Family incemes average
only US$385 per year with only 10% of the families having annual incomes
exceeding US$500 in the micro-region.
The Micro-Region
2.        The micro-region is located at the southwestern edge of the state
of Yucatan. It lies outside the economic center of the state which spans
the Merida-Ticul-Valladolid triangle dedicated almost exclusively to the
cultivation of henequen. The micro-region has good rainfall (1,000-1,200 mm
*of which 65% falls in the June-October rain season), a relatively high
water table (that would require careful management to prevent the upward
rise of the underlying salt water table), and large quantities of potentially
productive land. Only 6-8% of the land owned by ejidos and smallholders is
cleared. The rest is under medium to heavy forest. It is ironical that
the lands now under cultivation are not the best lands in the area, due to
access problems. The better lands are located farther to the south (20 km)
of the Merida-Chetumal highway along which most of the micro-regional
population lives. Improved accessibility to the southern part of the micro-
region could result in a tenfold increase in cleared land per family (up
from the present 1.7 ha/family) either under crops, fruit trees or grazing.
3.        The economically active population of the micro-region numbers
about 6,600 people, of which 80% are engaged in subsistence agriculture even
though 45% of the population is considered urban (the largest towns in the
micro-region being Peto, 8,000 inhabitants and Tzucacab,,4,000). This means
that "?urban"t agglomerations are merely clusters of housing for peasants
working fields nearby. Eighty percent of the families of the area have
incomes below TTS$479 per year. Almost 60% of the adult population is
illiterate, only 48% of school-age children are enrolled and most.adults



ANNEX 1D
Page 2
speak only the Maya language. A long-range plan to assist the socio-
economic development of the area underlies the work that the National
Institute for Indigenous Affairs (INI) has been carrying out in the past
10 years. INI was the only government agency active in the area until
PIDER was launched in mid-1973 1/. This case illustrates the past neglect
of areas with development potential.
4.        As suggested by the small amount of land in productive use, the
majority of the population is almost entirely idle during seven months of
the year. The absence of employment opportunities at reasonable distances
from the micro-region means that very little off-farm work can be found and
this explains the very low income levels of 80% of the population.
5.        Local forests (which until recently were worthless) are likely to
acquire an econaoic value as land clearing progresses and hundreds of kilometers
of fences are being built.
6.        The micro-region is both a poor area and one with a significant
potential for sustained economic growth. The Sur de Yucatan micro-region
composite index of micro-region selection. The Sur de Yucatan micro-region
is broadly representative of four other micro-regions now operating in the
Peninsula (2 in Campeche, 1 in Quirntana Roo and an additional one, Litoral
Oeste, in Yucatan state). Computations based on a representative ejido
development model indicate that a good potential for development exists:
the model yielded a financial rate of return of 18.8% and an economic rate
of 18.85%.
Development Objectives and Strategy
7.        Since the micro-regioni is inhabited by Maya communities whose
poverty stems in good measure from isolation and cultural-historical causes,
(e.g., three centuries of virtual enslavement under colonial rule and a nearby
genocidal war waged against them by the 19th century landed elites), the
almost entirely economic goals of PTDER have had to be complemented with
some of the social goals implicit in TNI's mandate.  INI takes the view that
economic and socio-cultural progress can only be introduced simultaneously.
This is why INT (which has been compared to a "mini-PIDER") conducts both
economic and socio-cultural programs.  INI provides credit and technical
assistance to the farmers for orchards, livestock or beekeeping, as well
as teaching children to read and write simultaneously in the Maya and Spanish
languages. For this reason, the training aspects are emphasized by PIDER
(about 50% of all productive support investment is for training and a sig-
nificant share of it will be channeled through INI technical assistance),
in addition to the normal economic goals. The economic goals of PIDEP. are
to significantly increase the amount of land under production, thereby
increasing local employment and doubling family income within seven or
eight years.
1/ In 1969/70, SRH conducted a study for the diversification of Yucatan
agriculture and it identified the southern portions of Tzucacab and Peto
as suitable for large-scale irrigated and rainfed agriculture, orchards
and grazing. These lands are included in the micro-region.



ANNEX 1 D
Page 3
8.        The strategy adopted to reach the above goals could be
summarized as follows:
(a)  Since the pcpuilation's incomie level is so low, it
was estimated that its interest and participation
could best be ensured by a mix of investments heavy
with productive projects in the first years of the
Program.  That was started off by TINI-led beekeepirg
and fruit tree projects and followed closely by SAG-
built livestock units. All three programs have been
successful and initial fears and mistrust hpve been
allayed in most communities.
(b)  At the same time as incomes are being increased by
the introduction of new activities (especially grazing
and fruit production), technical assistance and training
will be supplied.
(c)  Only after the bases for self-sustained growth have been
established will social infrastructure receive some
em,phasis.
Investment Program and Expected Results
9.        In order to carry out the above strategy, an investment plan was
designed and is presently being implemented. It calls for the investment
of US$7.9 million during 1973-77. Of this total, 55% will be for directly
productive and 33% will be for productive support investments,  Nine percent
will be for social infrastructure and 3% for progran coordination. As devised
in the strategy, productive and productive support investments will amount to
89% and 84% of the total in Years 1 and 2, while social investment will be
only 7% in Year 1 and will be increased to 14i and 11% respectively in Years 2
and 3. The emphasis of this investment plan is clearly laid on the directly
productive investments.
1C.       The productive investment will require US$3.43 million in medium-
and long-term development credits and US$1.65 million in incremental short-
term operating credits between 1975 and 1980/81.
11.       The project will directly increase the incomes of about 2,000 families
livino in 25 ejidos. It will directly benefit about 12,000 people and create,
at full development, about 700 full-time permanent jobs in addition to tempo-
rarn employment during the investment period and part-time labor requirements
of the productive activities.
Organization and Management
12.       To carry out the investmient program the follo-wing administrative
structure was formed: a federal agency at the state level, the Conite
Promotor del DesarroLlo Economico y Social de Yucatan (COPRODEY), coordinates
and supervises all federal investments in the state 1/. 'he Deputy Director
of COPRODEY is the acting Vocal Ejecutivo and therefore the Technical
1/  Indications are that this organizational structure will be adopted by
-   most other states eventually.



ANTEX 1 D
Director of PIDER for the state. As in other states, he is assisted by
a Technical Support Group to oversee the day-to-day operations of PIDER.
Some personality conflicts have arisen occasionally between the acting
Vocal and some of the federal agencies, but assistance from PIDER head-
quarters effectively circumscribed any possible ill effects and the invest-
menrt programn suffered no harm. A new PIDER Director is to be appointed
soon and the problem will be resolved entirely.
13.       The low socio-economic level of the population makes ejido level
participation difficult, but the evidence is that efforts are being made to
remedy this situation. Encouraging signs are clear--as successful programs
(beekeeping and livestock units) are being imitated everywhere 1/.
14.       The problem of local participation admits of no ove-right solution:
the local and ejido leaders will have tc be taught to participate. Since
many local leaders of necessity have been involved in PIDER, the investment
program will graduate a crop of relatively experienced and motivated leaders
whose example Tqill be followed by others.
An actual PIDEPR prepared analysis of Ejido Sabecani/ was submitted
in late 1974 and is summarized below:
1.   Physical Characteristics
The ejido is located in the southern zone of the State of Yucatan.
Its area is 2,375 ha., of which 2,109 ha. are forest or mountain,
16.5 ha. are urban, and 250 ha. of rainfed arable land.
In the forest/mountain zone two projects are planned: a 300 ha.
livestock unit and a 40 ha. irrigation unit for annual crops (Soy,
Beans, Jamapa).
The climate is sub-humid tropical (Koepper classification A.W.G.)
with rain from June to October. The average temperature is 26.20C.
The average yearly rainfall is 1,053mm.
The soil is predominantly AK'ALCHE, with an average depth of 1 meter.
The soils have a high clay content (coluvial).  The color varies from
dark grey to black.
1/ Some ejidos turned down SAG offers for a 300 ha livestock unit 18 months
ago. The only conditions were: (a) collective exploitation and (2)
assumption of a bank loan for livestock. Several ejidos are now
negotiating with the banks for loans for the entire cost of the unit,
frcm land clearing to the purchase of animals--on a collective base
as that is a condition for bank credit.



AtNEX JD
Page 5
2.   Human Resources
The population of the ejido is 185, composed of 41 families. The
whole of the population works in agriculture. The income levels are
low with average yearly expenses being about US$385.
3.   Infrastructure Works
The ejido is reached from the Merida-Chetumal highway by a track
to the Tzucacab village. 5.8 km. of this were done by hand. There is
a pump for taking water from a well. One teacher provides the first
three years of primary education. There is a basketball court, a house
for the Comisario Bjidal, and a health post is under construction.
There is no electricity.
.   Production Characteristics
Corn is grown on the arable land (600 kg/ha. yield). Beans (frijol)
are grown on one ha. (25 kg/ha. yield).  Pumpklns we grown on It ha. (25
sacos/ha.).
Agriculture is rainfed, and is done through the rudimentary,
traditional method of ( slash and burn). Neither improved seeds,
fertilizers, nor fungicides are used.
5.   PIDER and the Sabecan Ejido
In 1973 PIDER began a socioeconomic development plan in a large
rural area in the southern part of Yucatan. The objectives were to
increase family incomes, increase production, and lead to an improved
social welfare.
A 5.6 million peso (.45 million dollars) investment program over
4 years was created, of which 81% goes to productive investments and
19% to supportor social infrastructure.  The specific investment types
are shown in the attached table.
Over the four year investment program the unskilled labor require-
ments generated are calculated to be 29,498 man-days. (24 man years per year).
a)   Livestock Development
300 ha. of the mountain/forest zone will be developed. Guinea
grass will be planted on 260 ha. of rainfed land. African Star Grass
will be planted on the remaining 40 ha. These will be irrigated by
means of a 50 meter deep well to be dug. The herd will be beg-un in
year 4 with the acquisition of 43 heiffers and 43 steers. The herd
will stabilize at year 10. At first, the herd will be in a fattening
period, later to be converted to a weaning one, with a yearly sale
of 107 male calves and 39 female ones. Once stabilized the rainfed
grasses give one A.U. per ha. and the irrigated grasses 6 A.U. per ha.



ANMEX 1D
Page 6
b)   Bee Unit
A bee unit will be established with the purchase of hives and
the construction of fencing and other supporting materials.
The bees would produce honey, wax and create a nucleus for new
bee hives, whether for this ejido or others.
Extension
c)        fIte 'technical group required for covering the technical assistance
requirement of 5 ejidos in the same zone, consists of an agrarian
engineer, a vetinarian, two agricultural technicians and the necessary
vehicles. The cost per ha. is US$13.
d)   Road
To create access to the track to Tzucacab it is necessary to
complete, in years 1 and 2, a road constructed with labor-intensive
methods at a cost of US$4O,ooo.
e)   Electrification
Electrification is programmed for year 3 to meet the necessities
of the ejido and for the irrigation pumps. The cost is
approximately Us$4O,000.
f)   House for Comisario Ejidal
A house for the ejido representative is to be built in
year 1 with a cost of US$1,250 only in materials.
g)   Basketball Court
A basketball court was built with an investment of
US$730 in materials only.
h)   Health Post
A health post is under construction at a cost of U $3,000.
It is assumed that a doctor will visit once a week, but at the
present time, people have to travel 22 kms to obtain health
care.
6.   Financial Projection
The following conclusions were reached through analyzing the
financial projections. The initial ejido participation in the works
financed by PIDER is 20% of the total cost. The productive investments
are amortized over a period of 20 years with 5 years of grace. In
the development loan, the ejido will provide 10% repid over a 15 year
period, with 2 years of grace. The financial rate of return of the
investments (PIDER and development loans) is 16%.



ANNE 1D
Page 7
Yucatan
Ejido Sabecan (41 Families)
US$ per Faiily-
Category                      Before Dev.         After  Dev.
Cattle                                               300
Beekeeping                             -               30
Soybeans
(Irrigated)                                        190
Beans
(Irrigated)                                        210
Corn
(Rainfed)                       230                230
Total                             235                 960
Financial Rate of Return  =  16%
Productive Investment/family $8,800



ANNWC 1e
Page 1
MEXICO
RTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EL LLANO (AGUASCALIEWTES) MiICRO-REGION SUMMARY
Background
Tocated almost at the geograohical center of Mexico,
Aguascalientes is one of the four smallest states in the country. The entire
state's 5,590 square kilometers is in the semi-arid ecological zone; average
annual rainfall in the state's nine municipalities ranges from 400 mm to nearly
600 mm.
The state population in 1970 was 338,000, of which 200,000 live in the
state capital of Aguascalientes, the state's only city. This urban-centered
population also accounts for 55.5% of the state's economically active population
that is engaged in the industrial and service sectors. Clothesmaking, embroidery
products, and vineyards are Aguascalientes' primary activities, whose workers
comprise the major portion of the 50%0 of the state's working population that earn
incomes more than US $500 per year.
The Micro-Rezion: In contrast, the El Llano micro-region has four
municipalities and 75,000 rural inhabitants. Over 75% of this area's economically
active population is involved in agricultural-related activities. This orientation
may also account for El Llano's relatively low standard of living, whereby 77%
of the working population earn less than US $500 per year.
Selection of the Micro-Region:  The four municipalities couprising the
micor-region known as El Llano -- Aguascalientes, Asientos, Cosio, and Tepazala --
are located in the eastern part of the state. From the point of view of a
sizeable and relatively homogeneous target area and group, the EL Llano micro-
region area is the state's most appropriate delineated area that is consistent
with PIDER selection criteria.
El Llano's Resource Base: The micro-region's relative poverty is explained
primarily by underutilized natural and human resources. Only 122,000 ha., or
22% of the micro-region's total land surface is under cultivation -- primarily
by corn, beans, alfalfa, and fruit-trees (i.e. grapes). Though the northern areas
are classified as "semi-desert" with little possibility for increasing the amount
of arable land and crop yields, the central and southern portions of the micro-
region offer substantial potential for increasing the crop area and yields.
In particular, El Llano's already existing 19,000 ha. of irrigated area
(surface and underground), or 8% of total land surface, is located primarily in
this sub-region. However, it is reported to be inefficiently utilized through
excess application of water, both per irrigation and with respect to the number of
irrigations used on certain crops. Neverthless, though non-traditional technolocy
is used by a limited number of ejidatarios, who have obtained reported corn yields
of 2.5 to 3 tons per ha, there seems to exist a comparatively favorable base for
an increased irrigated area and for the further promotion of yield increasing
technology.



ANNEX le
Page 2
Another important mismanaged resource is El Llano's 170,000 head of
bo-ine cattle, of which 40% represent dairy cattle. There are cattle on
almost all of the ejidos, but only 43% of the ejidatarios own cattle, and on
only about one-half the ejidos does livestock represent an important part
of the economy.  However, serious overgrazing, insufficient supplemented feeding,
and inadequate technical service constrains the area's livestock activity.
EL Llano's second underutilized factor of production is its labor force.
Approximately 80% are principally subsistence farmers, with an average of 17 ha
per farmer. In terms of employment levels, this population is productively
active only for an annual average of 120 days per farmer, with the remainder
of the year remaining almost entirely idle. However, given El Llano's relatively
abundant off-farm employment opportunities and its good road network, the labor
resources can be more fully utilized through appropriate labor mobilization
measures. These could be coordinated through DAAC personnel. The micro-region
is endowed with a relatively literate population (85% of the population more
than 10 years of age) and a high primary school enrollment ratio (75% of school
are children). Furthermore, an agricultural secondary school in the El Llano
sub-region promises to be of substantial benefit to a wide area.
Finally, the micro-region has an ample road network averaging nearly
100 meters per square km. that can potentially accelerate the more rational
use of El Llano's natural and human resource base.
PIDER Ob.jectives and Strategy
The overall PIDER objectives in EL Llano are to:
a.  increase permanent employment in agriculture and industry;
b.  raise labor productivity and hence income levels of its rural
population;
c.  make technicians, and subsequently the farmers, aware of the need
to embark on a novel and more flexible approach to development,
based on a deeper and better coordinated problem analysis.
Despite the micro-region's small overall size, the strategy to accomplish
the above objectives is tailored to the specific characteristics and problems of
each of the three sub-regions:
a.  Sub-region 1 (Pabellon irrigation district):  The plan in this area
is to introduce more yield increasing technology and water saving
practices, and to create more agricultural employment opportunities,
among both subsistence farmers and entrepreneurial producers.
Specifically, this high resource potential area is suitable for
greater shifts to labor-intensive, high value crops, such as peaches
and grapes, peppers, potatoes and garlic, as well as alfalfa for



ANNEX Ile
Page 3
expanding the already important dairy industry. Furthermore, it
is appropriate to increase industrial and handicraft employment
in agro-industries and clothesmaking and embroidery, for which
the latter already has a sizeable pool of skills, to be augmented
by special training programs.
b.  Sub-region 2 (El Llano):  Efforts in this area are concentrated on
raising rainfel crop and livestock yields to provide something more
than subsistence levels to those farmers who will not benefit from
irrigation to be achieved through (i) further water exploration and
well drilling, (ii) soil and water conservation works and small
earth dams to store rainwater for cattle and irrigation, and (iii)
constructing the missing social infrastructure through providing
primarily drinking water and electricity.
c. Sub-region 3 (Tepazala, Cosio and Asientos): A similar strategy
applies here as in sub-region 2, but where the potential results
are constrained by lesser knowledge regarding underground water and
by poorer soils and climate. Some hope is expressed for the
development of mineral resources for the benefit of the ejidos on
which they are located.
In general, the above situation is suitable to achieving the PIDER
objectives through a careful consideration of the micro-regions's varied needs
and potential. However, two important strategy questions remain to be resolved:
(i) the equity aspects of the irrigation development; and (ii) the relative
long-run economies of dairying as compared with tree fruit and grape production.
PIDER Investment Program and Expected Results
The strategy described above is presently being implemented through the
PIDER investment plan. It calls for the investment of US $6.1 million over the
period 1973-1977. Of this total:
a.  55% will be invested in directly productive infrastructure whereby
irrigation and livestock-related projects comprise 85% of this
amount. The remainder of this category will be allocated for soil
and water conservation works and rural industries.
b. 22% will be allocated for productive support items, primarily for
agricultural extension and demonstration.
c.  31% of the investment allotment is earmarked for social infrastructure,
distributed evenly among electrification, drinking water, and
materials for self-help projects.
d. Program coordination will require 2% of the total.
Overall, this investment program is consistent with its stated strategy
and has a favorable spatial distribution within El Llano and a logical phasing
of infrastructural works.  The key component missing during the June 1974
appraisal was a strong input from DAAC, which is concerned with promoting farmer
management and decision-making.



AMNEX 1e
Page 4
The ejido model developed to be representative of El Llano has as
the basis for projecting the projectts micro-regional benefits and costs.
Under varying cost assumDtions, the financial rate of return ranges from
24.4% to 21.2%, while the economic rate of return spans from 24.0% to 20%.
Summary of El Llano's Rate of Return Analysis (%)
+10% for           +20% for           +20. for
Investment Costs   Investment Costs   Operating Costs
Financial Rate of Return
24.4                 22.7                21.2               23.6
Economic Rate of Return
Directly Productive
and Productive Support
22.85                 21.60               20.5o              21.23
Furthermore, this investment program will directly benefit 10,700
families living in 100 communities.
The project is expected to increase the incomes of approximately
4,000 families living over 40 communities. In addition, incremental emnloy-
ment creation is estimated to be about 1,400 man-years of temporary empioyment
(over the four-year project) and 500 man-years per year of permanent employ-
ment. Incremental production benefits will include beef and dairy products,
grapes and corn.
Organization and Management
Program coordination is contracted with CONAIA. The positions of
State Committee Executive Secretary and PIDER Program Coordinator are
combined in one person, an agronomist by formal training. His staff consists
of two assistants, one of whom is an economist and the other a former rural
school teacher.
A State Committee meeting on June 15, to which the mission was
invited, demonstrated the statets interest in the PIDER program. However,
the mission assessed two shortcomings of the meeting: on the one hand,
the membership of all involved agencies is too large for meaningful discus-
sions of issues and, on the other hand, many of the operational matters raised
by agency representatives were of little general interest and should have
resolved ad hoc directly with the coordinator.
Regarding local participation, the June 1974 mission did not
observe evidence that either the municipalities or ejidos were involved to
any significant extent in the planning and implementation of the investment
program.



1ANFNEX le
Page 5
As presently structured and managed, the mission feels that the
long-term impact of PIDER as such in the state will in fact be measured
principally in terms of its financial reinforcement of regular agency budgets.
However, a new governor is to be elected in December 1974 and the official
candidate, a former Oficial Mayor of DAAC, is expected to make some funda-
mental changes. If these changes include appointment of a more capable
coordinator, creation of a small policy and strategy committee, assigning
the proper role to DAAC and obtaining more dynamic leadership from - or
eliminating - CONAZA, the situation for realizing PIDER objectives could be
improved tangibly in El Llano.
An actual ejido case analyzed by PIDER is summari7-ed as follows:
Ejido_San Antonio
(82 ejidotarios & 44 sons of
ejidotarios - 1000 inhabitantes
in total).
l US$ per family - 7 members/family
Categorv                           Before Dev.      After Dev.
Rainfed
Baize                               185              350
Beans
Irrigated
Maize
Beans                               146              500
CThiles
Alfalfa
Beekeeping                              -               27
Cattle                                  -              123
Total                                 340            1,000
Financial Rate of Return  =  30%
Annual Extension Costs/family = $52
ha.     = $16



ANNEX l(f)
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NCRTH-EAST GUANAJUATO MICRO-REGION SUMMARY
Background
Guanajuato is an inland state in central Mexico, surrounded
(clockwise, from the north) by the states of Zacatecas, San Luis Potosi,
Queretaro, Michoacan and Jalisco. Its total area of 30,600 sq km comprises
about 2.3 million inhabitants, an average of 74 per sq km. Only 48% of
the state's population is still rural and 48% of the EAP depends on agri-
culture and forestry.
The northern part of the state contrasts sharply with the relative
prosperity and urbanization of its central and southern portions. Forty-three
percent of the state's area--comprising 15% of the population with an average
density of only 26 per sq km--is classified as "Arid Zone" by CONAZA.
Selection Criteria
The seven northeastern municipios comprise the 4,680 sq km
iTuanaiuato micro-region (see Map IBRDI lV& ).  It is essentially a very
dry mountain region where only half the municipal seats are connected by
paved roads. Most of the smaller localities lack access roads as well as
most basic social infrastructure.  It is one of the poorest and most abandoned
regions in this part of Mexico.
Since there are no major towns in the area, the population density
is only Po per sq km. Eighty-two percent of the population is rural and 69%
of the economically active population is engaged in agriculture and forestry.
Only 4% of the agricultural land is irrigated and nearly all of this is
located in the western edge of the region along the north-south Lerma valley.
Little more than one-third of the school age children are attending school,
as compared with nearly one-half for the state as a whole. Less than one-
third of the homes (including the towns) have water supply, against 56% for
the state, and only 13% are electrified, compared with 52% for the state.
Nearly three-fourths of the working population in 1970 declared incomes of
less than US$480 per year; this percentage is only 58 for the state as a whole.
Resources
From an agricultural point of view, this is probably one of the most
resource-poor micro-regions in the countrY in relation to the existing population.
With the exception of limited flat areas in the three western municipios, the
land is hilly to mountainous. Rainfall averagv,es 600-700 mm per year, concentrated



ANNEX 1(f)
Page 2
during the summer months and highly unreliable from year to year. The
area is subject to frequent drought conditions. As a result of population
pressure, both deforestation and over-grazing have been intense.
The eastern part of the region is said to be quite wealthy in
various minerals, including lead, mercury and silver. There exist many
small mines, some abandoned since World War II and others still operated
desultorily and primitively by the local population.  With the recent
increases in world metal prices, it may be possible to convert this potential
asset into a substantial source of income for this population, especially if
a more adequate road network is built.
Forest resources, actual or potential, may be significant in the
eastern part of the region but no surveys exist. FONAFE had accrued funds
from ejido forest exploitation fees in this area of more than M$60,000 in
1973, indicating a certain volume of activitv, but PIDER investigators found
that the ejidos did not even have receipts for these fees. The disorganization
in this sector is also reflected in DAAC's ejido census (see (c) below. In
other areas, there is evidence of serious forest over-exploitation by private
concessionaires. Added to the grave over-grazing, this is accelerating soil
erosion and the increasing desertization of the region.
Micro-Region Development Strategy
The micro-region plan stresses the "precariousness" of the region's
natural resources (rainfall and mountainous and very sloping land). It also
underlines the fact that the region had been virtually ignored by public
services and programs, and the interaction of the resource and infrastructure
underdevelopment. What the plan fails to emphasize, though there are occasional
reference in the text, is the almost complete lack of information regarding
some of the key resources of this area--underground water, forestry and mining--
and the lack of research-based data, both physical and economic, concerning
the potential for rainfed crop and livestock production. Hence, the strategy
proposed is heavily dependent on the key feasibility studies.
The lack of roads--both main and access--has impeded economic
development and social investments and services. Without roads there will
not even be a resource inventory nor economic research.
Similarly, the introduction of potable water supplies in the main
localities--especially the nearly 40 ejidos that are still devoid of such
service--are justifiable, not only for humane and health reasons but also
because well drillings for drinking -water (and for cattle) could be combined
with a systematic SRH underground water survey. Their cost could thus, in
social accounting terms, be partially written off against "production support"
research. In view of the fact that about one-half the school age children
still receive no education, substantial investment in school rooms is also
justified.



ANNEX 1(f)
Page 3
The overall objectives and timing of a development strategy
for this region provide: (a) a minimum package of basic investments in
economic and social infrastructure that would tend to make further invest-
ments viable to the extent that opportunities arise; kb) support key
activities such as underground water, minerals and forest surveys; and
(c) field-level research on pasture improvement, carrying capacity and
economically justified soil conservation, reforestation and yield increas-
ing rainfed agriculture technology. As was pointed out earlier, some of
this research-can be combined with productive investments on a pilot
basis. Meanwhile, DAAC should continue--and intensify--its efforts to
solve remaining tenure problems and promote organization and training in
the ejidos to enable them to be aware of their resources and capabilities
and participate in solving some of their problems.
Investment Program
Directly productive investments account for 61% of the cumulative
total all for agricultural activities. No investments are projected for
forestry or for mining, industry or handicrafts, This is believed to reflect
the scanty resource knowledge rather than the lack of any real potential out
of agriculture. On the other hand, more than one-half of this is for surface
water projects.
A soil conservation project that was visited in the field appeared
to be technically well executed on gently sloping land. However, the contour
ridges had been washed out in several places during the previous rainy season.
This indicates that; (a) greater protection may be necessary in the upper water-
shed; and (b) the community has not yet taken responsibility for maintaining
the work's.  Several of the "irrigation units" in the western, Lerma-valley part
are being planned,and some implemented, for grape production, as the area has
a well-developed technology for this crop.
Production support accounts for 22% of the cumulative investment
program. Well over one-half of this is earmarked for access roads, the major
bottleneck in the region. The remainder is assigned to agricultural to agri-
cultural extension and campesino organization and training. Agricultural
research facilities for the area are presently limited to the nearby livestock
experiment station. The recent equipping of a soils laboratory, with PIDER
funds, in the State Headquarters of SAG is a promising development; there had
been no such facility in the state. Some experiental parcels had been estab-
lished by extensionists in the micro-region, but no conclusive results were
as yet available. Meanwhile, 40h40-0 fertilizer applications for corn were
being recommended, though not based as yet on any locally derived field tests.
Plans are advanced for the construction of micro-region agricultural
research sub-center in San Luis de La Paz with federal funds. Because of its
location, and because it will be combined with an agricultural secondary school,
such an institution may have a major impact on farm technology in the area,
over the longer term.



ANNEX 1(f)
Page 4
Program Management
The program in the state of Guanajuato is contracted by the
Presidency with the agency CONAZA. There is one state level coordinator
(who is also executive secretary of the State Coordinating Committee) for
both micro-regions. He is a vigorous and at the same time modest and
patient lawyer who has close ties to, and the ccnfidence of, the Governor.
A native of the state, he was, for many years before returning to Guanajuato,
a labor union attorney in Mexico City. The state coordinator is responsible
simultaneously to CONAZA, the Governor and the Presidency. He appears to
know the state and the micro-region extremely well and has a grasp both of
the overall objectives and problems and of the operational and technical
details. He has a small office at some distance from the state government
building. He is assisted by a staff of four or five relatively junior
field persons of varying backgrounds, whom he uses not as subject matter
specialists but as general field evaluators and trouble shooters.
An actual ejido analyzed in detail by PIDER is described as
follows:
Ejido Canada de Moreno
(115 families)
---  IUS$ per Ejido Family
Category                         Before Develop.      After Develop.(10th year)
Rainfed
Maize                               280                 430
Beans                               170                 220
Maize Stover                         -                   20
Irrigated
Milk                                                    400
Cattle (Fattened dairy steer         _                   80
and cull cows)
Total                            US$450            US$1,150
Anancial Rate of  Return  =  22%
Economic Rate of Return  =     15%
Drinking water per capita
Investment Cost       =   US$41
Electrification per capita
Cost                  =   US$62
Clasroom per capita            US$ 7
per student(50)       US$92
Annual Extension Service costs per family   US$39
Annual Extension Service costs per ha.        US$2.-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MICRQ-REGION SELECTION
1.        Micro-regions are composed of two or more neighboring municipa-
lities within one state. The basic requirements for a micro-region to be
selected for development under the PIDER program are that it be poor, have
productive potential, and lack basic infrastructure to exploit this potential.
2.        Initially, PIDER staff applied the following criteria in selecting
and delineating micro-regions:
(a) total population of about 100,000;
(b) total area of about 7,000 sq. km.;
(c) a maximum of 75 localities between 300 and 3,000 persons;
(d) existence of one or more growth poles;
(e) a high proportion of the economically active population with
an income of less than US $1,000 p.a.;
(f) a high index of underemployment;
(g) adequate development potential; and
(h) inadequate social infrastructure.
3.        Micro-Region Selection Criteria.  During appraisal a more explicit
approach was developed to specifically apply priorities in the selection
of micro-regions. (Table 1) This approach is based on a number
of minimum target  thresholds which each micro-region has to meet as
part of the selection and approval process. These threshold criteria
involve population density, poverty, underemployment and productive potential.
The 15 micro-regions appraised thus far meet these criteria. The remaining
15 micro-regions would first be selected on the same criteria and subse-
quently be appraised individually.
4.        Appraisal Criteria.  The appraisal would consist of an evaluation
of the investment program balance, an assessment of the micro-region
org-anization and staffing and a threshold economic rate of return of a
minimum of 10%. While each of the 15 submitted micro-regions have more
than 75% of their overall investment, including credit, programmed for
productive investments, assurances would be sought during negotiations
that any micro-region to be submitted having less than 70% productive



AN NEX 2
-2-
investments including credit would not be eligible for support under the
Bank loan. In appraising the remaining 15 micro-regions, the Bank would
apply a three-tier economic rate of return assessment test. Micro-regions
showing a 15% or higher rate of return on productive investments would
initially be approved for reimbursement, with selected field checks
carried out where necessary. Those micro-regions submitted carrying rates
of return between 10% and 15% would be subject to a detailed field appraisal
by IBRD staff. Those falling below 10% would not be accepted for IBRD support
under the Project. Assurances on this minimum rate of return test (10%) were
obtained during negotiations. This appraisal would be made by IBRD staff
prior to recommending acceptance of the remaining micro-region investment
plans for disbursement purposes, and assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
5.        Village/Ejido Investment Programming.  During the initial village
level investment programming, a joint 10 to 15 person state and federal
levelteam visits each village or ejido in a selected micro-region. Prior
to their visit, a detailed baseline diagnosis is completed at the state
level from various censuses and agency files (DAAC, SRH, etc.).  This
diagnosis includes basic data on the village or ejido. Included in this
basic diagnosis are population ana income data, cropping patterns,
availability of existing resources (groundwater, stream flows, soil and
rainfall patterns), and basic infrastructure and services (schools, roads,
etc.) and a summary of all requests for improvements made by the village
to state and federal level authorities. During their visit, the programming
team checks and revises these data with the villagers, explains the PIDER
objectives and strategies as they might apply to their village, and obtains
from villagers their development priorities. The mix of the villager-
desired investment program is then assessed (on the basis of priority needs
for income and employment growth and improved provision of an essential
level of basic services ) against available technical information (existence
of groundwater, soils, etc.) and finally developed into a multi-sectoral
village level investment program. (Annex 8, Table 1 contains a typical
village level investment program. These village or ejido investment
programs are then consolidated into-micro-region development programs.
6.        During appraisal, a more systematic village/ejido level
investment programming methodology (described below) was devised.
PIDER then agreed to reprogram its existing micro-regions using this
improved methodology. This appraisal report is based on 15 of these
reprogrammed micro-regions, containing this improved methodology.
7.        Essentially, this new methodology makes explicit the incremental
income and employment generating aspects of the ejido development program
It also enables PIDER programming staff to test the internal consistency
of the ejido investment package. The investments programmed in the repre-
sentative ejido and village plans were systematically evaluated using a
economic rate of return test (above 10%) and estimates that temporary
labor required for development works related to the development of that
ejido could be met from the off-season under-employed labor from that ejido.



ANNEX2
This analysis of a proposed investment package for a "representative" ejido
thus provides an analytical measure that the investment program as a whole
for the micro-region, consolidated from village and ejido based programs,
meets adequate financial and labor availability tests.
8.        This methodology (see Annex 8) can then be used to assess:  (i)
the projected yields which underlie the technical feasibiiity of obtaining
increased incomes; (ii) the annual temporary and permanent labor requirements
of the proposed investment package measured against seasonally unemployed
ejido labor; and, (iii) the availability of funds from within the ejido to
meet fixed levels of cash contributions to social infrastructure such as
water and electricity and to service increased operating loan amortization
charges from incremental income flows. In addition, this ejido budgeting
methodology enables the various agencies interfacing with the e.ido members
to better time their investment, service and credit porivision activities.
Finally, the methodology requires the calculation of financial and economic
rates of return.
9.        As mentioned, PIDER prepares an investment program for each
village or ejido receiving assistance under a micro-region program. In
addition, PIDhR has now prepared financial detailed budgets in its repro-
grammed micro-region plans for two actual villages or ejidos in each
micro-region. The ejidos for which these detailed financial budgets were
prepared were selected by PIDER staff as being an indicative sample of
the likely cash flow and benefit streams to be obtained from the investment
packages proposed for the majority of ejidos to be developed in that
micro-region. To consolidate and expand this budgeting methodology,
assurances would be obtained during negotiations that ejido or village
budgets would be prepared for each village or ejido participating in
the project no later than one year following the signing of the loan.
Copies of these budgets would be available at ejido/village, state and
PIDER (federal).
10.       EJido Selection & Responsiveness Criteria.    In relation to these
criteria, it is important to know the relative readiness of ejidos or
communities for responding positively to PIDER action. An assessment of
potential responsiveness indicates the pace at which communities can be
brought into the program over time, leading to a more realistic set of
expectations for the micro-region program. Optimally, criteria should
be developed to rate communities and place them within five or six categories,
ranging from very responsive (ready-now) to totally uninterested (may not be
ready within even a long term, fifteen or twenty year plan). Such criteria
should ideally further define the objective related to attitudes, and the
scaling of communities would provide a framework for PIDER action. A better
definition of the problem would also help action agencies search for alterna-
tive strategies for motivating and working effectively with less interested
communities.



ANNEX 2
11.       While PIDER has not developed such a detailed typology for
ordering communities according to responsiveness, the selection of communi-
ties by PIDER staff for intensive action clearly responds primarily to
their intuitive sense of ccmmunity readiness. The current Presidencia
strategy is to work first with the most interested communities. This is the
only feasible alternative if the program is to produce positive results in
a fairly short time, demonstrating PIDER's effectiveness to both the political
leadership of Mexico and the neighboring communities.
12.       Dual Equity Considerations.  This strategy, however, also leads
to the concern for equity, since the most prepared communities tend to be
at the upper end of the development scale. An ex-ante analysis of the
place of these communities on a development scale and an assessment of the
relative responsiveness of all communities can indicate the equity costs
of the PIDER strategy and, hopefully, the minimizing of these costs. The
second level of concern for equity is within, rather than among, communities.
The detailed budget analysis within the ejido model assumes incremental net
income will be evenly distributed among ejidatarios.  Despite legal provi-
sions for equitable access to land within ejidos. there often exists a
very unequal distribution of control over land and other assets. The
inequitable distribution of control does not respond to economic efficiency
criteria, but to other factors associated with the prevailing social struc-
ture. Optimally, PIDER ejido appraisal criteria should include the identi-
fication of the factors responsible for the concentration of control over
assets in a few hands. It should also determine that (1) PIDER action will
not reinforce existing inequities, but rather that (2) PIDER action will
contribute to an improved distribution of decisionmaking and control over
assets. To an extent, such criteria are used when DAAC SOFE team members
are already well-established ant participate actively in the ejido planning
exercise.



ANNEX 2
Table a
MICRO-REGION SELECTION
THRESHOLD
CRITERIA                   MEASURE                              LEVEL
1 . Size
(a)  Population         rural people                        max.150,O00
(b)  Population         persons per    (i) arid regions       1
density           sq.kmO         (ii) others            5
2. P2oerty
(a)  Income            percent of economically active       40
population with incomes less
than US$500 p,a,
(b) Underemployment    percent of labor force econo-         2
-mically active less than
6 months per year
3. Productive Potential   percent economic rate of return    10
on directly productive and
productive support invest-
ments *
2a Based on 1970 Census.
h( The number of points varies proportionally with the actual level, but with a
maxiumm of twice the normative weight.
m/ Population inl communities smaller than 2,500 persons.



A,N EX 3a
Page 1
IMEXISO0
RURAL DEVELOPIC-NT PROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
I. Introduction
Small-scale irrigation is a major component of the project.  The
proposed project investment of US$35 million in irrigation represents 16%
of the total investment.  The executing federal agencies are the Secretaria
de Recursos Hidr'aulicos (SRH) and the Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(SAG).
II. Background
On much of the land suitable for agricultural production, irriga-
tion is required to achieve sustained and significant improvement in crop
yields. Subsistence rainfed agriculture in regions of inadequate precipita-
tion (large parts of the central and northern parts of the country with less
than 700 mm per year) can be improved through the use of adapted seed varieties,
soil and water conservation and better farming methods, but only to a limited
extent.  This is largely due to the high risks entailed when investing in
inputs (seed, fertilizer, etc.) in zones of insufficient rainfall. Tradi-
tionally, the MIexican farmers have tried to minimize the risk of crop losses
by cultivating maize and more recently sorghum crops which offers at
least some return even under relatively dry weather conditions. Shifts to
higher-value crops require some supplementary irrigation in areas of less
than 700 mm rainfall.  Consequently,the Government has allocated some 60%
of total pubiic investment for agriculture for irrigation schemes.
III. SRE
SRH is empowered by the Federal vlater Law of 1972 to construct,
administer and operate irrigation, drainage and flood protection works.
While SRH previously concentrated its efforts to build large-scale irriga-
tion districts, small-scale projects gained in importance during the past
seven years. In 1967, SRH was charged with preparing a plan for bringing



A-.\  X 3a
Page 2
irrigation to the numerous sm1ll villaoes Tw-,hich had been bypassed by previous
development projects.  A "Plan Nacional de PequeHa Irrigacion" (National Plan
for Small Scale Irrigation) was designed which provided, during the first
phase (1967-1970), irrigation to 120,000 ha benefiting 40,000 families.
During the second phase (1971-1976), now called "Plan Nacional de Obras de
Riego para el Desarrollo Rural" (National Irrigation Plan for Rural Develop-
ment) 230,000 ha are planned to be irrigated benefiting some 130,000 families.
Small-Scale Irrigation Projects SRH (ORDR) Program
Families
Year                Hectares         Benefiting
1967-70             120,000            0,o000
1971                 29,500            13,700
1972                 37,000            17,200
1973                 60,500            28,000
1974                 55,200            25,800
1975                 51,200            23,700
1976                 46,600            21,600
Source: SRH budget; hectares and families
calculated from totals given in budget.
The Plan is carried out by the SRH Department for Small-Scale
Irrigation for Rural Development (ORDR)o Irrigation facilities provided
under this Plan range from small wells powered by windmills (for domestic
and livestock water supplies) to small dams, pumping plants and deep wells.
These facilities are in schemes not exceeding 2,500 ha. In implementing
the Plan, SRi has become involved in integrated rural development as well
as irrigation ranging from investigating and promoting to constructing and
operating water development projects.
The SRH Plan for small-scale irrigation (Plan Nacional de Obras
de Riego para el Desarrollo Rural), calls for a total irrigated area of
280,000 ha with an average land holding of 2.15 ha per family. SRH small-
scale irrigation projects supported by IDB in 1968-1972 provided an average
of 3.07 ha of irrigated land per family in a total area of 87,500 ha.
The size of these holdings may appear to be relatively small and
to contribute to the fragmentation of the irrigated area in 1Iexico.  hoowever,
practically all farmers o'm also rainfed crop land and, most probably, could
not cultivate a much larger irrigated area without the help of hired labor.
The present policy of providing about two to four hectares land in small-
scale irrigation districts, therefore, appears to be justified.



A'NNDEX 3a
Page 3
Although the water shortage in many regions of Mexico appears to
limit seriously further irrigation development, small-scale irrigation
projects can still be built in most regions.  ORDR has carried out numerous
feasibility studies which show the potential still to be developed.  These
studies reportedly cover an area of about 800,000 ha.
A. Criteria for SRH Supported Small-Scale Irrigation Projects Under
PIDER
Ln vie;T of the large number of applications for developing small-
scale irrigation projects received by SRH, ORDP. has developed a procedure
(which applies both generally and to PIDER) to screen and rank them according
to economic and social priorities. Requests are preliminarily screened
according to such factors as available infrastructure (roads and electricity
lines), markets, levels of education and farming capability of the farmers
within each community. In order to establish priorities for irrigation
investments, a socio-economic index was defined based on the 1970 I\National
Census.  The following data were considered:
- the percentage of the rural population, relative to
the total population;
- the percentage of the economically active population
in the agricultural sector, relative to the total of
the economically active population;
- the percentage of the economically active population
with incomes below the official minimira salary,
relative to the economically active population in the
agricultural sector;
- the reciprocal value of the average monthly income
from the agricultural sector;
- the percentage of the population which had not eaten
meat, eggs and milk during the week before the Census,
relative to the total population.
A second index was elaborated to consider the availability of
water and agricultural land. However, considering the uncertainty that water
and agricultural land would be available in one and the same project area,
this index was substituted by an index based on the number of hectares
identified as possible projects (in total 683,220 ha) in a nationwide
inventory of irrigation projects.
Finally, a combined index was calculated by simply adding the socio-
economic situation and the projects identified. This information enables
the planners to site irrigation projects in the light of poverty and produc-
tion potential.



AN'EX 3a
Page 14
Applications are then classified into one of eight models ranging
from simple installations serving small areas (about 25 ha) to larger and
more elaborate schemes.
Model 1.  A simple windmill delivering about 16 m3 a
day for watering livestock and utilizing a well 25 to
100 m deep.
I4odel 2. A small dam.with maximum height of 17 m and
impounding up to 200,000 m3.  Design is according to a
standard handbook.
ibodel 3. A pump scheme larger than Model 1 (driven by
windmill or diesel motor) and provided with a small
storage tank; this scheme is suitable for irrigating a
small orchard and/or providing water for domestic and
stock use.
XModel 4. .. simple small diversion stru.cture from
streams with perennial flows.
Model 5. A small dam impounding from 100,000 to
3 million m3 for irrigating a limited area.
lIodel 6. A dam with a height exceeding 17 m, capable
of storing more than 3 million m3 and of irrigating up
to a maximum of 5,000 ha. (Such a dam must be designed
individually rather than from a handbook.)
hodel 7.  Pumping station for extracting water from a
perennial stream or from a lake; irrigated area 2,000
to 4,000 ha.
Model 8. A deep well on group of deep wells yielding
a minimum flowy of 20 lit/sec ivith each well capable
of serving 30 to 120 ha.
After screening the applications and selecting priority areas,
ORDR enters agreements with a local users' association which specifies wdhat
works and services ORDIR will provide and it binds the users, association to
accept conditions concerning operation and maintenance 6f the work, water
use and water charges. The agreement requires signature of the userst
association, SRH and DAAC.  The latter is required because in many cases
changes in titles for landholdings may have to be agreed-to by the users
(ejidatarios or small landow-ners).
When an agreement with a users' association is reached, SRH
proceeds with a feasibility study which include hydrology, soil surveys, an
appraisal of existing crops and cropping practices, a survey of present land
distribution between ejidos, small proprietors and other types of tenure,



ANNEX 3a
Page 5
preliminary designs and cost estimates, social and economic factors. Con-
struction of Drojects finally approved by SR} is carried out by contractors
following the usual tendering procedures of SRH with supervision of the
contractor by field staff.
After construction, project operation follows regulations established
by SREI regarding types of crops grown, the quantity of water used, the manner
in which water is shared and the maximum area of land which any one owner may
irrigate. The SRH Direcci6n General de Unidades de Riego para el Desarrollo
Rural is charged with these functions including the assignment of extension
workers to new irrigation districts to assist the users' associations in
managing their fields in the most adequate form. Each association elects its
owm chairman or president, a secretary, a treasurer and such other members
of the committee as considered necessary.  Two or more associations may be
combined to form an "irrigation district." These procedures are soecified
in the relevant articles of the Federal vlater Law (articles 73 to 83) dealing
with Unidades de Riego para el Desarrollo Rural.
B. Financial Criteria
Public investment in irrigation increased from US$62 million
during the years 1926-1947 to US$788 million in 1965-1970 (see Table 1).
During this period, the investment per  hectare  increased
from US$75 to US$2,004. The tentative SRH budget for the present 1971-1976
sexenio called for an investment of US$821 million in new irrigation projects
of which US$240 million were allocated to small-scale projects. In addition
to these investments US$330 rillion was assigned for completion of irrigation
works under construction and US$147 million for rehabilitation of irrigation
districts.  The goal for SRI small-scale irrigation investments was revised
in 1973 and set at US$340 million for 280,000 ha irrigated land (see Table 2);
US$144 million were committed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
to assist this program.
The average investment costs per hectare of small-scale irrigation
projects during the years 1968-1972 were reported by IDB as US$960 per ha
and US$2,880 per family. To eliminate expensive sub-projects and to assure
a more equitable distribution of the investment benefits, the following
limits to construction costs are to be applied under the Project.
Irrigation projects up to 25 ha
(obras rninimas)                   US$4,000/family
26-2,500 ha                           US$24,000/family
The investment cost estimates of the  eIBxico Integrated Rural
Development Project I - Papaloapan Basin ran wqas estimated at US$965/ha for
a 60 ha well irrigation project and US$1,281/ha for a 2,500 ha diversion and
gravity irrigation oroject.  71.lile these cost estimates may be relatively
low under the present inflation in 14exico, PIDER allocated US$217 million
to irrigate 115,000 hectares, a conservative estimate as the average per
hectare cost would be US?1,)330 and US$7,500 per family assuminig 4 ha.



ANNEX 3a
Page 6
C.  Operation and Maintenance Costs
Operation and maintenance costs always have to be paid fully by
the users of the irrigation districts as spelled out in previous loan
agreements between IDB and SRH. This condition is recommended to be
applied in all PIDER irrigation projects.
D. Investment Recovery
The 1972 Mexican Federal Water Law requires beneficiaries of
irrigation to repay capital investment from water charges at rates determined
by SRH after SRH has carried out detailed studies on the beneficiaries repay-
ment capacity.  Current practice by SPH is not to recover capital costs from
the very small "obras minimas," schemes up to 25 ha benefiting from 10 to
25 families. However, for larger schemes, 26 to 2,500 ha, SRH after various
economic and social studies. Under the Project, assurances would be obtained
that all irrigation investment would be subject to investment recovery at
rates to be determined by SRH after determination through socio-economic
studies of repayment capacity of beneficiaries. "Obras minimas" schemes
emphazising irrigation would not be excluded from being subject to capital
recovery, as a number may be over 20 ha, benefit only a few families which
would enable them to repay a substantial portion of the initial investment.
E. Organization and Management
ORDR carries out the overall planning, prepares projections at
the national level and annual programs, and ensures an integrated appoach
nationwide. It is responsible for projects between 500 and 2,500 ha_/ and
has to review and approve the smaller projects prepared at the regional
level (25 to 500 ha) and at the state level (up to 25 ha). To ensure an
integrated approach to all projects, two working committees have been
established within ORDR: (a) Comite de Esth.dios y Proyectos and (b) Comit6
de Construccion.
Beside the organization in the central office of SIRH in Mexico
City, ORDR built up an extensive field organization41/  Four Regional offices
have been established in:
1/ Projects covering more than 2,500 ha are the responsibility of the
Direcci6n General de Grande Irrigacion,
j  The personnel budget of ORDR runs to about 91 million pesos per year.



.ANNEX 3a
Page 7
San Luis Potosi (Northeast Region, a States)
Termosillo (Northwest Region and Peninsula Baja
California, 6 States)
Queretaro (Oenter Region, 1 States)
1I4rida (Istmo and Yucatan Region, 6 States)
These agencies prepare projects of 25 to 500 ha and assist the
State offices in the execution of irrigation projects (e.g., drill rigs for
the construction of wells, supervised by the regional offices, are directed
to the projects within the various States according to the overall construc-
tion schedule. Finally, SRH has State offices in each of the 30 M7lexican
States.
IV. 3iG Irrigation Development
A. *Normal 7iork Progran Now Funded Totally by PIDER
'll `SAG irrigation projects are designed to benefit small farmers
or ejidatarios,   3AG -Tater activities cover the planning and execution of
srn7L1 reservoirs of groundweter degvlopment projects, flood control works,
and watering noints for livestock.    In 197!,, the normal work
program oI boG in irrigation was transferred to PIDER, ensuring that all
SAG water investments are constructed under PIDER criteria in program micro-
regions.
SAG S-tate Offices receive applications from rural communities.
Subsequently technical personnel inspect the localities, analyze the tech-
nical and economic feasibility, review legal problems and the social
justification of the proposed projects. Projects prepared by the state
staff are submitted to the head office in Mexico City for approval.  Qon-
struction is usuallv carried out by contractors under the supervision of
State staff.
Lhe completed works are handed over to locally-formed >iater
Committees who are charged with operation and maintenance of the project
and the equitable distribution of the irrigation water to users.
nile surface water development nrojects include the construction
of a dam or dike and usually the water distribution system, groundwater
development projects financed by SIIG provide only well drilling and the
installation of casings and filters.  The users have to ob'tain credit from
banks to finance pumps, engines or motors.  ihis nolicy differs from SRH
project development which provides the complete "pDackage" of all project
components.
/  According to the Federal U!ater Law, Article 32  SAiG can be charged with
the construction and maintenance of dikes, canals, drains, livestock
watering facilities and reservoirs, subject to technical reviews by SRH.



.ANNEX 3a
Page o
The budget of SAG for water development projects amounted to only
about 1045 million (US$3.6 million) per year compared wfith MJ$700 to 300
million (US$60 million) allocated to the small-scale irrigation program of
SRXHD
The normal program of the SAG Direccion General de Ingenieria
Agricola wias completely transferred to PIDR in 1974, leaving no "normal
program" funds to this agency.



ANNEX 3b
Page   1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATICN
Introduction
A 1974 SAG study estimates that 47% of Mexico's land has been
adversely affected by soil erosion and that 14 million ha have been permanently
lost to agriculture. An IDB soil conservation consultant estimated that 66%
of the lands in five micro-regions be appraised were eroded, a percentage well
abow the national average of 47%.
While the Government has increased agency (SAG + SRH) budgets for
improved conservation practices, the f4nds programmed for the 1973-1976 period
(US$ 101 million) would only be sufficient to initiate a national program.
At an average cost of US$104/ha, only about 960,000 ha would be benefitiaL_
Over the longer term, a very much larger, coordinated resource management and
conservation program would be required to mitigate the damaging effects of
soil erosion on the productive capability of the land. By integrating these
soil and water practices in the coordinated PIDER micro-region effort, an
excellent opportunity exists to maximize the benefits of these works with
related efforts (extension etc.) designed to increase small farm productivity
PIDER and Soil Conservation
The PIDER program includes 5% of its total investment for improvements
in soil and water conservation in the Project micro-regions. Under PIDER, the
majority of these works are to be executed by SAG. The primary objectives
of the program are (1) to assist farmers to make, in orderly progression over
a period of years, changes in their cropping system or land use needed to
conserve, develop, protect, and utilize the soil and water resources of their
lands, and (2) to install needed conservation measures and carry out the
practices needed under such changed systems and uses. The average cost per ha
using labor intensive techniques averages US$104 per ha. These costs range
from a low of US$45 on 5% slopes in Sur de Nuevo Leon to US$240/ha on 20%
slopes under higher rainfall in the Zacapoetla micro-region. The PIDER/SAG
strategy to carry out these objectives is twofold, to use labor intensive
construction methods to provide temporary, off-season employment in the micro-
regions(85% of construction is labor) and to design the works so as to deal
with current soil erosion and to improve water retention for rainfed maize
and bean cultivation.
The Project
The Project would support the construction of soil and water conser-
vation works by labor-intensive methods. Some 91,000 ha would be protected
at an average cost of US$104 per ha. The works involve contour ridging and



ANNEX 3b
Page   2
terracing and checkdams for gully protection, to avoid water erosion and
at the same time conserve soil moisture. Programs are implemented on both
grazing and rainfed crop land but technical criteria for each differ. Hand
labor and draft animals, as well as machinery, are used, but the former is
preferred on slopes of 10% or more.
The program is the responsibility of the Soil and Water Conservation
Directorate of SAG.  Its budget has increased substantially from 1968 to 1974),
including both regular program and PIDEER. Field staff generally consists
of one "delegate" with one to three assistant engineers per state. There are
23 state "delegations" in the respective state offices of SAG.
Field visits indicate that the specific works per se are generally
well designed from a narrow technical point of view. However, projects are
generally not conceived as forming part of a general watershed management and
conservation plan. Hence, erosion in, and runoff from the upper watersheds
often defeat the conservation works in the lower areas where the crops and
livestock are produced. 1/   Since most projects are udertaken on ejido land,
which often commands entire small watersheds, a opportunity is perhaps being
missed. This may well reflect lack of training and experience among the
responsible officials in this type of approach. It may also illustrate the
lack of coordination at the state and micro-region level of the activities
of the various branches within the Ministry of Agriculture.  Close collaboration
in such projects between the Soil and Water Conservation   Directorate and the
Forestry Department is a prerequisite.
To widen the import of these works, the Project would require that
prior to construction, detailed conservation plans on a small watershed basis
would be required on an ejido or village basis.
For very low rainfall areas (250-500 mm annually, the arid lands
institute (CONAZA) is working in the micro-regions developing suitable water
retention techniques. The technical research arm of CONAZA has an experimental
farm near Matehuala, strategically located (on the border between S. LuTis
Potosi and Nuevo Leon) for a number of rmicro-regions. A number of water conser-
vation practices are being tried there, with preliminary results already
available. For example, closely spaced contour ridges on gently sloping land
have produced significant gains in pasture grass availabilities.  Also, selected
maguey cactus planted on contour ridges have been shown to be capable of providing
additional income at a low marginal cost. Some of these experiences have been
informally adopted by conservation -and extuension personnel in some areas,
especially of cactus planting and contour ridging.
1/     It is also futile to expect communities to maintain these conservation
works as long as heavy runoff from the upper watershed is not controlled.



ANNEX Lb
Page   3
Maintenance
Maintenance of SAG constructed conservation works would be
strengthened under the Project. The contract with the village and ejido
conservation association would specify that maintenance of constructed
works benefiting that ejido or village would be at the expense of the
beneficiaries under SAG supervision.
Criteria
To qualify for reimbursement under the Project, the following
criteria for soil and water conservation works would have to be met:
(1) A Soil and Water Conservation Watershed program would
be designed for the works to be undertaken on a village
or ejido level. Since most ejidos and villages cover
substantial areas of land, the development and executiorn
of such a plan should not create major difficulties as
compared to trying to develop such plans required the
coordinaticn of hundreds of private farmers in a watershed.
(2)  Works constructed under this lrogram would only be under-
taken on those ejidos or villages where the farmers have
indicated a strong willingness to work with extension teams
from SAG to take advantage of a package of productive
investments including soil conservation. Soil and water
conservation works without complimentary agricultural
improvements such as improved seeds, better spacing, use
of fertilizer etc. does not maximize the full potential of
constructed works.
Benefits
The benefits of integrating soil and water conservation works into
the coordinated program of PIDER micro-region development are threefold:
(1) economic;
(2) technical; and
(3) employment.
Economic
Although the economic benefits derived from soil and water conservation
programs in the micro-regions have not been quantified, the national problem



AITNEX 3b
Page 4
or eroision and sedimentation is critical in Mexico. The situation is
getting progressively worse and is beginning to seriously undermine the
country's agricultural productivity base. High degrees of erosion result
in lower yields, and soil erosion is negatively related to the yields of the
most important crops in any micro-region. The most evident economic effect
of erosion is that it affects gross income through declining yields. Once
the first one-third of the surface horizon is lost, yields become more
sensitive to further topsoil losses and income is affected accordingly.
SAG does not have a detailed analysis available of the economic
returns from the various types of works constructed under its direction.
For contour ridging in 600-850 mm rainfall. SAG stated that early evidence
showed a 20-30% increase in corn yields due to improved water retention,
yield increase *as achieved without fertilizer.
A more detailed measure of the benefits that may be expected from
such works is provided in a recent (May 1974) economic analysis of the
on-going Great Plains (U.S.) Conservation Program. Using present combinations
of conservation practices, which like Mexico, emphasize water retention
through contouring the study concluded that one dollar of investment generated
US$3.80 in additional agriculture.
In the Project, the costs of soil and water conservation are
included in village and ejido development programs for purposes of calculating
the economic rate of return to the productive investments in that ejido.
A (minimum rate of return of 8% for the productive component is established
(see Annex 8).
Technical
The same U.S.D.A. national study demonstrates conservation practices
initiated on 77 million acres in the Great Plains Region has resulted ir.
reducing soil losses caused by wind and water erosion by approximately 221
million tons per year. Since there are approximately 150 tons of topsoil
per acre inch, the 221 million tons per acre saved represents an equivalent
of six inches of soil from 2455,500 acres annually. The conservation methods
applied on the 77 million acres are reducing the sediment loads of area
streams and reservoirs by 10.5 million tons or 6,887 acre.feet df sediment
annually.
In Mexico, the types of erosion creating land damage are the
following:
Sheet and rill erosion: reduction in soil productivity;
Gully and streambank erosion: land loss, land depreciation and
sediment production;



ANNEX 3b
Page 5
Streambank and streambed erosion, landslides and landslips;
Streambed erosion and floodplain scour: lowering of water
tables and sediment production.
Enployment
At the same time, the provision of teimporary, off-season employment
in the micro-regions (85% of construction is labor), and the ensuing economic
benefits to the population of the areas, cannot be overemphasized. The
program will contribute to a more equitable income distribution, and provide
to a large number of farmers opportunities to contribute to productive
investments on their farms. The Project would provide about 9,500 man years
of labor in total. Given the seasonability, about 19,000 persons would receive
employment for ! year during the non-cropping (November - May) season in rain-
fed areas, some 600 people per micro-region.



UNJSX 3c
Page -;
RPIL DEVBL0PIST' PROJECT
FEEDER ROADS
Introduction
For the past 45 years, limited attention was given to the tertiary
road network in Mexico, the bulk of resources beinr' used for construction
and maintenance of primary and secondary roads of excellent qualitv and
standards. At the time the present federal administration took office
(1970), some 15,000 out of 20,000 localities with a population between 300
and 2,500 were not connected to the primary/secondary road network except
by low standard tracks, many of which were passable only during part of the
year or on animal back.  In the six states where ricro-regions were visited
by the appraisal mission, only 23% (882 out of 3,833) of such localities'
were accessible by regular motor vehicles on all weather roads.
The present federal administration has emphasized the importance
of feeder roads as an expression of its concern for the rural poor. Up to
300,000 km of such roads (class D and E) are to be built or improved over
the period 1970-1976. These public works will be labor intensive, providing
about 600 million man-days at minimum wages for local labor.  The Secretaria
de Obras Publicas (SOP) is currently building more than 25,000 km of such
feeder roads per year and plans to connect before 1980 most villages and
towns with a population above 250 inhabitants. In this report, only the
roads integrated in the PIDER project will be examined. These constitute
15% of the works mentioned above while the other 85K? will be planned outside
the PIDER program and budgeted directly from Hacienda to SOP (this last
category is referred to as the "normal program")O
Feeder road construct-on represents a significant change in SOP's
policy the general objective of which, up to 1968, was to provide and main-
tain road connections between the main towns (especially the state capitals),
sea ports, border crossings and lIezico City.  A main SOP objective is the
construction of a network of feeder roads to connect isolated communities to
the present highway network.  Out of its US$2.5 billion total investment plan
for the period 1973-1976, SOP has earmarked US$D1.12 billion (45%) for labor
intensive feeder roads.
SOP is a dynamic agency and has taken an early lead in the PIDEP
integrated rural development project.  The PIDER road investments will
amount to US$100 million in the 1974-1976 period (about 100 of the 3rojected
PIDER expenditures), corresponding to approximately 13,000 km of E roads.
These works will make a substantial contribution to the pro4.ect by helpDing
to open up backward rural areas, facilitating construction and maintenance
of directly productive and social investments and Droviding adeauate
accessibility for key inputs such as extension an-d  reting services.
In spite of recent improvements, the highway density in Mexico
is still only 0.038 km per km  (about 1.6 km of road per thousand
inhabitants). This lack of accessibility has adverse effects on rural develop-
ment. Infrastructure costs can reach prohibitive levels and maintenance of
directly productive and social investments is difficult when no vehicle



ANNEX 3c
Page 2
access is possible. Because of such factors, Government agencies (e.g., SRH)
tend to focus on already accessible areas, thereby accentuating local
disparities. Finally, a good feeder road support infrastructure is an
absolute prerequisite for effectiveness in extension service delivery, itself
a preliminary condition for rural development in backward areas in M4exico.
The ProJect
Some 1,900 km of Class E labor intensive feeder roads would
be constructed in the 30 micro-regions. The feeder road component would
cost about US$12.7 million, some 6% of total project costs. While
average km costs would be roughly US$6.800, there is considerable cost
variation due to wide terrain and rainfall conditions in the micro-regions.
In the drier parts of flat Mexico such as Sur de Nuevo Leon, construction
costs per km average US$6,000 compared to us*$14,000 in mountainous wet regions
of Puebla state.  An important aspect of this component is the integration
of feeder road construction into the broader productive rural development
strategy of the micro-region. weeder roads would not be constructed unless
the economic rate of return for the productive and productive support invest-
ments, including feeder roads exceeded 10%.
Design Standards
Feeder road design standards may vary somewhat from one state to
another mostly because the resident engineers and SOP centers have managed
to adapt effectively general design guidelines to local conditions. For
examDle, when drainage is a minor problem (e.g., in Southern NTuevo Leon),
birdbaths are mostly used; in other micro-regions where rainfall is
relatively important (e.g., in Zacapoaxtla) culverts are a more usual
feature.  Resident engineers use local materials as much as possible to cut
costs and this may affect construction standards: e.g., in Zacapoaxtla,
the resident engineer uses large stones instead of the usual 15 cm gravel
surface on some roads and local pine tree trunks to reinforce small crossings;
otherwise, gravel is obtained on the site or by hand crushing stones in the
area of road works.
IIost feeder roads integrated in the PIDZR. proje6t are class E.
The Nuevo Leon SOP center has built some roads that will easily be upgraded
to D status in the future; in particular, bridges are about 5 m wide (vs. 4
m in general), tlfo 1 m shoulders have been provided (other-roads in the
PIDE program do not provide any) and turnouts (about every 500 m) have been
constructed (no turnouts are generally provided on other roads)0 In general,
other construction standards are as follows:



.JTNNEX 3c
Page 3
Feeder Roads Standards
Tlyme of Terrain      Flat/Rolling  Hilly/ i4ountainous
iRoad width (m)             4                4
laximum gradient (%)       10               12
Construction
Road works comprise clearing of the alignment, leveling, patching
with smaller aggregates of 3-5 cm, spreading of gravel, and culvert building.
Trhe roads are not surfaced or compacted.  Generally, every task is performed
by using exclusively local hand labor (SOP nrovides the workers with wheel-
barrow s, Pickaxes, shovels and other necessary implements).  Local sup lies
are made use of as much as technically feasible:  stones and gravel are
moved by workers if available close to the construction site; if necessary,
stone crushing is done by hand.  Local contractors are occasionall- hired
for hauling of gravel and for earthworks (in the cases w7here the  volumes to
be moved are very important).  SOP does not usually use its omn equipment.
Cost Estimates
Illustrative construction cost estimates are detailed in Table 1.
it prominent feature of these results is the high ratio of labor costs to
total costs, about 70%. The local SOP center in charge of the Aguascalientes
micro-region estimated that a higher use of machinery (dozers, front end
loaders and trucks) would lower total costs by 20%1 at most in its territory.
This would imply a subsidy per man-day of about Xi$8.5, equivalent to a shadow
rate of 71%, j  above the shadow rates used in the econoric eval-uation
of the project; this makes the proposed labor intensive technique economically
acceptable (e.g., with a shadow wage rate equal to 50, the economic cost
would be I$P55,300 in Table 1, about 19-;, lower than the economic cost of the
cacital intensive alternative).
Table 1 should be considered for illustrative purposes only.
Tnile U3S6,800/l-q is reoresentative of nctu&,l 197?L constrluction costs in
the Iluevo Leon, Aguascalientes and ,inaloa micro-regions, US$6,000A/ka
would be more approcriate in the Yucatan and Guana4uato micro-regions and
US$1 4,OO0/krn in 7aca oaxtla.  Likewise the ratio of labor costs to total
total  cost  while  in  the  neighborhood    of 65-70$ in most micro-regions
is no more than l5-50% in Southern Nuevo Leon.  This difference cannot be
explained by variations of minirom wage levels from state to state but
show.s that the local SCP center is makina a relatively more intensive use
of equipment aund contractors than is customary, The type of terrain, existing
Anfrastructure and drainage requirements are crucial factors in determining
total construction costs: e.g., existing tracks in dry areas can often
provide an adequate sub-base (with some patchw,ork) but in mountainous areas
where torturous animal paths are the only roads to be found, the infra-
structure will have to be built from scratch.



AIMNUEX 3c
Page 4
1Iaintenance
The feeder roads are to be maintained by the population
in the newly connected villages under control of the village road committees.
SOP would provide a minimum of supervision and pay for the materials and
oart of the labor that will be required; M$3,000 (US$240) per kilometer has
been budgeted-for this purpose in 1975. However, these arrangements have
yet to be tested as very little feeder road maintenance works have yet been
carried out.
SOP Organization
Labor intensive feeder roads are under the responsibility of
directorate supervised by an undersecretary. The Directorate plans and
selects future investments, coordinates SOP feeder road programs with
state highway departments supervises procurement and specifies design
standards.
SOP State level offices propose feeder road programs and organize
procurement. The execution is carried out by resident engineers at the micro-
region level. They are solely responsible for supervision of feeder roads
construction in their area. They deal directly with the population that is
going to contribute to this public works program (in the form of labor, paid
at minimum wages); their task is to organize and motivate the population so
that ad hoc committees can be formed to act as contractors for village labor
procurement in feeder roads construction and maintenance works.



ANNEX 3C
Table 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEEDER ROAD MODEL (1 km)
(Investment and Maintenance Costs)
Year 1
Investment components                    Mex$'000       Us$'000         (%)
Clearing (2.3 ha; Mex$3,560/ha)             8.2             .65          9.5
Earthworks (2500 m3; Mex$13.7/m3)          34.2           2.73          40.0
Drainage                                   26.2            2.10         30.8
Gravel (600 m3; Mex$15/m3),                 9               .72         10.6
Engineering and Supervision (10% of         7.7             .62          9.1
above)
Total                                 85.3           6.82         100.0
Investment Inputs
Labor (2000 man-days; Mex$30/day)          60.0           4.8o          70.4
Cost of materials                           8.5             .68         10.0
Equipment costs                             9.1             .72         105
Engineering and Supervision                 7.7             .62          9.1
Total                                 85.3           6.82         100.0
Maintenance Inputs                                      Year 2-20
Labor (50 man-days)                         1.5             .12         50.0
Materials                                   1.5             .12         50.0
Total                                  3.0            .24        100.0



ANNEX 3d
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
M4ARKETING AND THE ROLE OF CONASUPO
I. Introduction
CONASUPO has the basic jurisdiction for planning, execution and manage-
ment of public sector marketing facilities, within the PIDER program. The
contemplated CONASUPO investment in PIDER would primarily focus on construc-
tion of rural warehouses (bodegas rurales), and rural retail stores (tiendas
rurales). Of the total PIDER investment for 1973-78, the investment in
warehouses and stores in the 100 PIDER micro-regions was estimated at roughly
US$24 million, or about 2p of the total.
Units                      Investment (in US$1 ,O0)
Years   WarehousesLa    Stores/    Total        Warehouses/c   Stores/d Total
1973-74       28            193        221           5,600        1,617   7,217
1975          4o             80        120           7,400          447   7,847
1976          26             5o         76           4,600          279   4,879
1977          10             5o         60           1,810          279   2,089
1978          10             5o         60           1 810          279   2,o89
Total        114            423        537          21,220        21901  24,121
The investment requirements for marketing facilities are relatively small.
Yet, a satisfactory performance of marketing functions is a crucial
determinant of the overall success of the rural development program. This
is because size of the net disposable income of individual, PIDER beneficiaries
will, to large extent, depend on the prices they will be paying for production
inputs and consumer staples, and on prices they will be receiving for sale
of their marketable labor, crops and livestock.
II. CONASUPO
A. Objectives and Strategy
CONASUPO is the latest in a series of government regulatory and
marketing organizations beginning with the Wheat Regulatory Board in 1937.
A 1965 decree formed CONASUPO as an expanded version of the Campafnia



ANNEX 3d
Page 2
Nacional de Subsistencias Populares, S.A. which had been formed in 1961. In
1971 a significant strategy shift occurred; while CONASUPO's programs had
succeeded in increasing production and improving marketing channels, the
distribution of the benefits had been unequal. Consequently, CONASUPO
reformulated its objectives to focus more sharply on the lower income segments
of the society, especially in the rural sector. To achieve this revised
strategy, CONASUPO set forth three basic objectives:
a. regulate the basic goods market;
b. increase the income of poor farmers;
c. increase the ability of low income consumers
to acquire basic goods.
The prime target groups are producers with annual incomes below
M$12,000 (US$960).
CONASUPO has set forth the following general strategy for its rural
development efforts; enable the campesino to increase his income, retain it,
and invest it in productive means. The major components of the CONASUPO rural
development strategy are the following:
a. Sell basic consumer goods (primarily foodstuffs)
in rural areas at prices lower than those currently
prevailing.
b. Provide consumer credit to rural consumers on a
carefully controlled basis.
c.  Buy farmers' produce at guaranteed prices.
d. Provide auxiliary services needed to alter the
unfavorable structural economic relationships.
e. Help market campesinos' non-agricultural products,
e.g., handicrafts as well as commercial products
such as construction materials.
f. Involve the campesinos in decision-making and
operational aspects of the programs.
B. The Project
Under the Project some 60 small stores ("tiendas rurales") and 5
warehouses ("bodegas") for the purchase and storage of farm produce would
be constructed. This represents about 26.5% and 21.0% respectively of the
total units planned for the 100 PIDER micro-regions during the 1975-78
period.



ANNEX 3d
Page 3
Rural Units
Retail
Years           Wiarehouses   Stores
Actual 1973/74       28        193
Projected 1975       40         80
1976      26          50
1977      10          50
1978      10          50
Total 1975/78        86        230
IBRD Micro-Regions   5          60
IBRD as % of
1975/78 Total      37%        40%
1. Rural Stores
Most of the 60 retail stores visualized for establishment within
Project micro-regions would be in existing buildings. Adaptation of the
structures would be done at an average cost of about US$2,500 (see Table 1).
Initial stock for such stores requires an additional investment of US$2,400
per store. It would include simple productive inputs such as garden seeds,
hoes, pesticide and fertilizer as well as supplies of basic consumer require-
ments.
The PIDER stores would be incorporated into an extensive network
of about 2,700 urban and rural stores selling around M$3.7 billion (US$300
million) worth of goods annually. The basic rationale for having integrated
vertically forward into the retailing segment of the food system was to lower
prices of basic goods (and ensure supply availability) to poor income groups
via a more efficient and less exploitative distribution system. The lower
prices come directly via the merchandise offered in the stores and
indirectly via a competitive regulatory effect which would tend to keep
private sector store prices closer to CONASUPO's.
The prices in CONASUPO's urban stores are about 10% less than the
competition's. The price differentials in the rural sector are even greater.
This is not surprising. Perhaps a universal economic dictum is that "the
poor pay more." Generally, the distribution systems supplying rural areas
are fragmented, poorly organized, and inefficient. Outlets are small,
inventory management rudimentary at best, transportation costs excessive,
and quantity buying almost nonexistent. In addition to this high per unit
costs, rural stores often hold a semi-monopolistic position because of their
geographical remoteness and the generally infrequent and costly transporta-
tion services to urban centers. CONASUPO states that its surveys reveal



ANTThX 3d
Page 4
that its prices are 20-23% less than those prevailing in ouher rural stores.
In fact, in some areas campesinos reportedly refer to these lower prices as
the "normal difference".  They expect COTNASUPO's prices to be lower.  Price
verification during field visits by Bank consultants corroborated these
differences.
Because the rural sector is generally very poor, with limited
buying power, it is often assumed away as part of the countryts comercial
market. As a consequence, marketing of consumer goods to the rural sector
has generally been a forgotten dimension of rural development. Such over-
sight ignores reality. Most campesinos do enter into the goods economy to
some extent as indicated in the introductory statistics on subsistence
farmers.  Because of this, and because food expenditures probably absorb
30% of their family budget, food prices have a dramatic imnact on the
economic situation of the rural family.
As pointed out above, the fixed investment in a rural CONASUPO
store amounts to about US$2,500 and another US$2,L4OO is needed for working
capita'l. Assuming that a rural CONASUPO store has annual sales of US$5,400
and that campesino purchasing power would increase US$1,090, and the store
manager would receive commissions amo-mting to about 4'% of sales, or US$220.
If one takes off depreciation at 15 years and interest on the working capital
at 10%, the return on the US$,900 fixed investment is about 20%. This
represents a significant direct economic benefit to the campesinos. In
addition, the store may help untie the campesino from having to sell his
crop at lower prices to store owners in exchange for merchandise; he might
thereby be able to sell to CONASUPO buying centers at higher prices, thus
increasing further his income.
2. Rural Warehouses
The rural warehouse project would focus on construction  5 new
storage facilities of 500 and 1,000 tons capacity. The average cost would
be about US$184,000, including start-up working capital.
The total cost for this component is US$1.5 million, 1l  of the
total Project cost and 6% of OONASUPO's expenditure (US$24 million) under
the overall PIDER program.
The PIDER warehouses would be incorporated into CONASUPOts network
of 1,241 rural warehouse centers with a storage capacity of 1.4 million
metric tons. A 20% expansion in centers and a 575Z increase in capacity is
projected through 1976. Ancillary transport and shelling services will also
be expanded.
The rural warehouses were built as part of CONDASUPO's price support
program for basic crops, primarily maize, wheat, bean, sorghum and oil crops.
CONASUPO purchases around 20% of maize crop at guaranteed prices.  The thrust
of the program is to ensure small farmers a minimam income from their crops
and to stimulate maize production which is the dominant (30% of agricultural
output) crop and the major item in the Mexican diet (25jo of low income family's
food budget). The objective is to also regulate the prices paid to farmers



ANNaC d
Page 5
by other buyers by providing an alternative outlet at a guaranteed price.
The primary causes of past failures in price support programs have
been inadequate budgets of the grain procurement agencies and insufficient
storage space. Without the funds to buy the grains or a place to store them,
there can be no effective market intervention by the Government marketing
agency. CONASUPO has therefore moved forwTard on both of th,ese fronts, so as
to enable it compete effectively with alternative buyers.JI
In addition to the storage space and funds for buying the grain,
CONASUPO also assists in developing related activities, which aim at over-
coming problems caused by the economic interrelationships between the
campesinos and the buyers of their crops. The extension of credit either
consumer or production, can obligate the farmer to sell his crop to the
credit source at inferior prices. The lower prices compensate the credit
givers for their services but the power relationships are unequal and
therefore the possibility of exploitation inevitably emerges. In addition
to credit, buyers can offer other services such as transportation or grain
bags or processing (e.g., drying or shelling), which either tie the crop or
cause the farmer to pay higher prices for these services.
CONASUPO has recognized this multi-faceted nature of the producer
crop marketing process and, therefore, is attempting to surround the crop
buying, warehousing, and price support program with the ancillary services
needed to operate as a viable regulator and direct participant in the rural
produce marketing system. The resultant improved economic benefits to the
campesinos can significantly increase their savings and consumption capacities.
3. Rural Consumer Credit
CONASUPO's consumer credit program through 1973 was relatively
small with total credit under a coupon system amounting to US$170,000.
Another 30 cooperative stores were programmed to be added to the credit
program in 197L.  In addition, several of the Institutional Store systems
(e.g., Instituto Mexicano del Cafe, La Forestal) were developing credit
schemes for implementation in 1974. Because of the favorable experience
in the initial program (100% credit repayment), the Secretaria de Hacienda
y Credito PCblico extended to the regional banks the authority to provide
guarantees to consumer credit loans. BANAGRO (national agricultural bank)
has manifested strong support for this new credit concept and has incorporated
a rural consumer credit line into its 1974 programming.
1/  CONASUPO surveys reveal that the small farmers retain about 69' of their
crop for on-farm consumption, which 40% of farmers sell some or all of
their crop.  Approximately 17% of the corn they sell goes to CONASUP
The reason for selling to CONASUPO was stated by 79% to be the better
prices. The major reasons given for not selling to OONASUPO were distance
(30%), crop promised to others (23%), and lack of information (15,0).  Most
of the corn not sold to CONASUPO has traditionally been channeled to
various intermediaries: local merchants (20.9%), grain buyers (21.4%),
and truckers (12.6%) due to inability of farmers to arrange for direct
sales of maize to a relatively distant CONASUPO warehouse.



AhNEX 3d
Page 6
The oDerating mechanisms for this system vary depending on the
particular economic situation of the campesinos and the organizational
characteristics of the collaborating institutions. Generally, however,
CONASUPO issues coupons to the campesinos on a monthly basis up to a
predetermined credit line. The campesinos redeem the counons during the
month for merchandise at the CONASUPO rural store.  The campesinos can pay
off all or part of their credit balance at any time within the year. After
the second month. they must pay interest on the outstanding balances at the
commercial rate of around 11%. In those cases where a third party such as
BANAGRO is involved an additional dimension is added, namely, the bank
guarantees the consumer loan against nonpayment.  In other instances CONASUPO
might extend the credit to the cooperating institution which in turn would
carry out whatever credit program it deemed appropriate, but it would carry
the financial responsibility to CONASUPO for the credit.
. Benefits
CONA.SUPO's rural marketing program holds considerable potential for
generating a significant socio-economic development impact on the low income
segments of rural IMIexico, especially in the integrated approach of PIDER.
The strength of the program lies in five areas:  strategy, infrastructure,
personnel, and management risks and financial benefits to rural people.
a. Strategy
CONASUPO's development strategy is based in the realities of the
economic environment of the campesinos. It gives full recognition to the
nature and adverse effects of the economic terms of trade between the
campesino and the other participants (suppliers and buyers) in the rural
economy. Unless these structural relationships are explicitly addressed
the imnact of other development efforts could be dissipated and the economic
benefits siphoned off by others rather than reaching the target campesino
group. The constraint imposed by the economic structure are multiple and
require a multifaceted approach.
CONASUPO has designed such a multi-pronged program and it is one
that gives cognizance to the reality that the marketing of inputs (consump-
tion and production) to the rural sector is intimately interrelated with the
marketing of outputs (produce) from the rural sector. They can be isolated
in theory only, to do so in practice is to tug at only part of the web of
underdevelopment. The final aspect of the CONASUPO strategy which is
particularly appealing is that the approach is not aimed simply to income
redistribution and resultant short-run increases in standard of living as
an end in itself, rather, the goal is to increase the income of the campesino
so that it can be channeled into productive investments which can be the
basis for an ongoing sustained development. Also in this context is an
emphasis on involving the campesino in a meaningful way in the design of
their own development plans and process.



ANNOt 3d
Page 7
b. Physical Infrastructure
CONASUPO has assembled a sizable and strategically located network
of retail stores and storage facilities with ancillary services. It has
developed a rural delivery system capable of reaching deeply and broadly
into the rural sector with relative efficiency. The lower input (consumption
and production) prices possible through this system will dramatically increase
campesino purchasing power which probably will result in an increased intake
of food. This may well positively affect the nutritional status of rural
consumers; however, if additional attention is paid to increasing the
nutrient quality of the food, greater impact on nutritional status night be
possible.
c. Personnel
Although a broad survey of CONASUPO personnel was not made, a
spectrum from top managers to village store operators was interviewed. The
resultant impression was that most CONASUPO staff and line personnel are
reasonably competent and highly motivated relative to what one frequently
observes in public entities. The personnel training programs, especially
those at the lower levels of Grain Analyst and Store Manager, generally
appear to be effective. The organization does not seem to be a resting
grounds for dormant bureaucrats, although an inevitable portion of personnel
undoubtedly fall into this category. There seems to be a genuine concern
for not padding the payroll with additional, unproductive bodies.
d. Management
Although CONASUPO's management systems are neither the most
miodern nor the most efficient in Mexico, they are relatively well designed
and effective. There is a top management appreciation of modern management
techniques and many have been instituted; for example, a Programming-
Planning-Budgeting system and a computer based management information
system were being instituted in early 1974. There is an understanding of
the limitations or organizational centralization and the need for decentral-
ization in order to increase coverage and penetration in the rural sector.
Finally, there seems to be a reasonable control system.
e. Risks
The CONASUPO program, of course, also has a number of risks.
First, although it has developed a fairly broad and integrated package of
services and facilities for its rural development effort, these attach only
a certain portion of the development bottlenecks in the rural sector.
Accordingly, to realize their full potential CONASUPO's efforts must be
integrated into and coordinated with other key inputs (e.g., production
credit, penetration roads, irrigation facilities, education) aimed at the
other bottlenecks.



ANN EX 3d
Page b
Second, the CONASUPO effort is critically dependent on maintaining
a highly motivated and well trained headquarters and field staff. The
strain of rapid program expansion is great and continual attention must be
paid to the quality of training and to in-house personnel development programs.
Third, the decentralization move creates new requisites in terms of control
mechanisms and perceptions toward the delegation of responsibility; care
must be exercised to strike the right balance between authority and responsi-
bility, control and delegation. Fourth, there is an ongoing need for sys-
tematic and quantitative evaluation of program results; such evaluation in the
past has been more impressionistic than systematic, even though a spirit of
frank self-evaluation does exist. Evaluation becomes a critical feedback
mechanism for program planning in any expanding and innovative development
effort.



ANNFX 3d
Table 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
fIIESTNESNT COST IN A MODEL RUR?AL STORE OF CONASUPO, 1974
(in US$ '000)
-New       Adapted
Investment Category                             Store        Building
1.  Civil Works                                 L,130o           960
2.  Enuipment and Machinery                      1,200        1,200
3.  Pre-Investment Engineering and
Administration                                3I0            3'0
4.  Initial Product Inventory                      2.
6.  Total                                        S.7?o 
7.  xcpected "Life" of Store (in years)             20           10
83. Employment Creation during
Construction in Man-Days                    1,500           25o



ANNEX 3 e
Page   1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY FOR AGRARIAN REFORM (SRA)
SRA. Objectives and Structure
1e          When formulating the Integrated Rural Development Program
(PIDER), the Mexican govenment was fully aware of the key importance for
the success of such a program of (a) bringing order into the chaotic legal
situation of land tenure and (b) assuring a massive input of organizational
and developmental assistance to make up for decades of neglect. A new
Agrarian Law was drafted in 1970 - the first major piece of agrarian legisla-
tion in thirty years - and was enacted by the Congress in March 1971. The
law makes no fundamental changes in agrarian policy. Rather, it attempts to
correct some of the more serious problems which have plagued this sector for
decades, puts new teeth into enforcement measures and mechanisms, provides
for a substantial reform of the administrative structure for agrarian affairs,
and assigns high priority to assistance for the social and economic develop-
ment of the country's small farmers.
2.          SRA, the  Ministry  for Agrarian  Reform, was
assigned major responsibility for the implementation of this new law. For this
purpose, SRA was completely reorganized and restaffed from top to bottom.
It has considerably improved with respect to the number and quality of its staff,
its organization and methods and the pace of work. SRA 's budget jumped from
US $ 11 million in 1971 to US $ 80 million in 1973, and is further being
strengthened with PIDER funds and by the proposed Project. The department,
whose head is a cabinet-level official directly responsible to the President,
is now divided into four functional secretariats: (a) Agrarian Affairs;
(b) Ejido Organization and Development (SOFE); (c) New Population Centers and
Colonization; and (d) Legal Counsel. Each secretariat is headed by a young
and vigorous Secretary General and comprises several functional Directorates
General. The two most important secretariats are Agrarian Affairs, responsible
for land tenure, and SOFE, charged with community development.
Land Tenure
3.          Mexico's rural population comprises three main groups: ejidatarios
(para 4 ), private farmers and the landless. There are about 1.5 million
ejiditarios with 44 million ha. of land, 1.2 million privately ownled farms
with 125 million ha., and 1.2 million landless families. The Constitution pro-
vides that individual private property is limited to a maximum of 100 ha.
of irrigated land, or 200 to 800 ha. of rainfed land, depending on the ecolo-
gical zone and the slope of the land. Thus, from the time of the 1915 Revo-
lution to 1965, some 60 million ha. had been redistributed. Yet, the 1960
census still showed considerable inequality in the distribution of the re-
maining private land, as fo11ows:



ANNEX 3 e
Page   2
Size Distribution of Private Landholdings. 1960
Percentage Distribution of
Farms          Area
5 ha. or less                              66.8            1.1
5.1 to 50 ha.                              22.0            4.2
50.1 to 100 ha.                             4.3            3.3
100.1 to 500 ha.                            5.1           11.1
500.1 to 1,000 ha.                          O.8            5.9
1,000.1 to 10,000 ha.                       0.7           17.7
More than 10,000 ha.                        0.3           56.7
Total                                     100.0          100.0
4.            Ejidos. The bulk of the redistributed land was organized in
ejidos !/. An ejido is essentially a joint and inalienable land holding arrange-
ment for a group of farmers who made a successful claim to all or part of a
former hacienda under the provisions of existing agrarian legislation and the
Constitution. Joint tenure was meant primarily to protect the ejidatarios
against renewed usurpation of their newly acquired land by former landlords or
money lenders. The ejidos were not conceived as production units. In fact, in
addition to conferring a limited collective property title to the land to the
ejido as a whole, the law also provides that the head of each family is to be
issued a certificate of usufruct right to a particular parcel of arable land
within the ejido. This right may not legally be rented or sold, nor bequeathed
without government permission. Abandonment legally signifies loss of rights.
In practice, therefore, the croplaad of the vast majority of ejidos has been
worked in individual parcels. However, grazing land, forests and other non-
arable land have not been parcelled, but are, at least formally, exploited col-
lectively. Owing to the legal provisions regarding the procedure for land
claims and ejido establishment, the communities have remained relatively small,
comprising typicaIly between 50 and 300 families of ejidatarios.
5.            There are also about 2,000 "Indigenous Communities" with a popula-
tion of some 200,000 families. While the historical basis for their land tenure
rights differs somewhat from that of the ejidos, the legal status of those
rights is the same. In the culturally isolated coamunities, vestiges of the
traditional tribal community structure are found and the land mazy, in fact,
be farmed collectively0 The communities may apply for ejido status. For the pur-
poses of this Annex, they are included in the discussion of ejidos and ejida-
tarios. A special agency, the National Indigenous Institute, has been taking
special responsibility for these commnmities in some areas (Annex 3 1).
21 The term is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village common, based
on the concept that the land reform returned the usurped village lands to
their rightful owners - the farners, called "ejidatarios". The ejido com-
imunity is represented by an elected "comisariado" of three members: a
president, secretary and treasurer.



ANNEX  3 e
Page   3
6.           Parcel Size. The ejidos cover 25 percent of the total farmland,
43 percent of the cropland, and 42 percent of the irrigable land. TWihen all land
expropriable under present legislation is redistributed, some 53 percent of
all land will be in ejidos. Except for illegally large private holdings which
may be discovered as a result of the new political push in this direction and
limited areas of virgin land in the extreme south (where additional "colonies"
will be established), the land still available for redistribution in Mexico
under present limits on private property, would suffice to settle barely
five percent of the landless campesinos.
7.           Although the Constitution guarantees each ejidatario 10 ha. of
irrigated land, or 20 ha. of dry rainfed land, the man/land ratio was never
great enough to implement this statute except in a few areas. In 1960, the
distribution of cropland parcel sizes on ejidos (cropland comprising 23 percent
of all ejido land) was as follows:
1 ha. or less                       9.7  4
1.1 to .0 ha.                      3h.5 *
4.1 to 10.0 ha.                    40.5 D0
more than 10 ha.                   15.3 %
Total:                             100.0 %
The mean area of cropland per legal parcel in 1960 was only 6.5 ha.,
and of irrigated land, only 0.95 ha. In most rainfed areas, the parcels have
been insufficient to provide a decent living for the average ejidatario family.
Only in some of the irrigated areas is there a theoretically adequate resource
base.
8.          The ejido situation has been aggravated over the years by the
growth of the population and the inability to find non-agricultural work. For
every ejidatario, there is at present at least one grown son without any formal
rights in the land, who must either hire himself out as a day laborer to
larger farmers, or share in the meager proceeds of the family parcel while
awaiting the passing away of his father before he can acquire land rights of
his own.
90           Legal Status. The above problems were aggravated by the organiza-
tional and legal neglect from which the ejidos had been suffering over the
past decades. From the point of view of agrarian procedures, the most glaring
neglect had been  SRA's failure to issue the equivalents of land titles to
even one-third of existing ejidos, and certificates of membership and usufruct
to the members of these and other ejidos. In fact, the exact number of ejidos
and ejidatarios was not known, despite repeated censuses. At the end of 1972,
there were 8,000 unresolved cases of collective ejido tenure certificates.
In addition, half the ejidatarios were still awaiting their provisional, indi-
vidual certificates of membership, and hardly any had received a final cer-
tificate of rights to a specific parcel. Some had been waiting for 20 years.



ANNEX 3 e
Page  4
10.         This situation has, of course, led to widespread, and at times
serious, conflict over boundaries among ejidos, between ejidos and private
owners, and especially among ejidatarios. Abuses have been rampant with
little or no corrective action being taken by any public agency. The law
specifically forbids the renting of ejido land either among ejidatarios or to
outsiders and provides that "tabandoned" parcels are to be reassigned to
landless campesinos. All ejidatarios are required to reside in the ejido and
to work on their parcels or in the-collective land of the ejido unless
there is a special dispensation, e.g. for widows and ivalids. Yet, a substan-
tial proportion of ejido parcels are rented out by ejidatarios who are either
unable or unwilling to farm thee or who have other sources of income, and
have even moved to a town.
11.         Recent Developments. The present administration is committed by
law and by public pronouncements to a massive program of cleaning up the entire
administrative and legal backlog. To this end, the Secretariat of Agrarian
Affairs has been strengthened considerably. Since the beginning of 1973, when
the Secretariat began to operate at full speed, Presidential Resolutions have
been signed for about 1,000 ejidos of the 8,000 which had not yet received
their collective charters. But 7,000 of these cases were still pending in
mid-1974 (including 3,000 New Population Centers), covering 13 million ha.,
one-third of the total number of ejidos in the country. In addition,
1,000 tenrare rights certificates were pending for Indigenous Communities.
As regards the membership and parcel tenure certificates of individual ejida-
tarios, DAAC had issued a cumulative total of 2.4 million such certificates
by mid-1974, leaving "only" 400,000 cases unresolved. In "colonies" in the
southern virgin lands, 7 million ha. were awaiting final surveying and tenure
regularization by mid-1974. At the same time, progress is finally being made in
the issuance of "certificates of inaffectability". These give private land-
owners, whose holdings do not exceed the legal limit, security against any
further expropriation under the agrarian legislation.
Ejido Organization and Development.
12.         While the Secretariat for Agrarian Reform  is beyond question
laying the legal (and psychological) foundation for a successful development
effort in the ejido sector, the most important secretariat in the DAAC in
the long run is that for Organization and Development of the Ejidos (SOFE).
This secretariat represents an entirely new activity for the DAAC. In the past,
DAAC had virtually nothing to do with developmental activities, and virtually
abdicated the important role which it should have played in supervising and
aiding the social and economic organization of the ejidos.
13.         SOFE is divided into four Directorates General which deal, respec-
tively, with organization, development, planning and training. The latter is
known as the National Institute for Farmer Training (INACAP). Aside from a
probably excessive headquarters staff of nearly 1,000, the Secretariat already
has another 1,000 people in the field in all states.  The field work of the
SEA brigades comprises three theoretically sequential tasks: (a) "sensitivi-
zation"; (b) orientation or "awareness creation"; and (c) reorganization
and development.



A1NEX 3 e
Page   5
The approach is designed to avoid a paternalistic imposition
of reorganizational initiative from above. Rather, it is designed to gradual-
ly prepare the understandably diffident campesino communities concerned for
self-determination and subsequent assumption of initiative for development.
Dependirn on prevailing attitudes and the existing organizational and human
development in the ejidos concerned, DAAC expects that the intensive, initial
work leading to a complete reorganization, including election of new officers,
takes from 6 to 12 months in each ejido. Detailed guidelines for methodology
have been prepared for the field teams, which undergo one month orientation
courses. Field manuals of specific procedures have also been prepared for use
by them and by ejido officers.
1h.         INACAPts training program, though impressive in size got off to
a false start under improperly focused leadership. Main weaknesses were the
massive but indiscriminate dissemination of literature, correspondence courses
and radio programs, and the divorce between action and training personnel at
the field level. In mid-1974, INACAP's program was completely revamped, and
a master plan for organization and training prepared. This master plan is
designed to bring all farmer organization and training activities, presently
being carried on by a multitude of agencies, under DAAC's umbrella, in
accordance with the statutory responsibility assigned to the Department, and
to put primary emphasis on agriculture. The following targets were set:
Tyoe of Activity                         1974    1975    1976
Cumalative Number of Ejidos
Planning (production, credit,
infrastracture requirements)           3,000   7,000   11,000
Organization (collective constitu-
tions, bylaws, credit appli-
cations)                               3,000   7,000   11,000
Cumulative Number of Persons ('000)
Mass information programs                  300     700    1,100
Basic on-the-spot training (orga-
nization and programming)               300     400      400
Specific training in Centers Farmers:       18      78      138
(management, organiza-
tion, prograTming and     Officials:    1.7       4.2      6.7
agrarian matters)
Skilled labor training (FONAFE
Contract)                                 2.0     3.       5.0



ANNEX 3 e
Page   6
Accomplishments and Remaining Problems
15.          SRA's involvement in PIDER is substantial, both in terms of in-
puts and results. In 1974, 552 or 55 percent of DAAC's personnel were being
paid with PIDER funds and active in the micro regions. Conceptually, DAAC's
conmmuity development brigades function as the spearhead of PIDERts develop-
ment activities at the community level. Unless the communities and their
members become aware of their resources and potential, and develop their own
capabilities for problem identification and solving and for negotiating
directly with the outside world - public and private - the physical investments
being made in their welfare are likely to remain monuments to failure. This is
DAAC's ostensible philosophy, and the leaders of its Secretariat for Ejido
Organization and Development are making an earnest and dedicated effort to im-
plement this philosophy.
16.         In practice, however, there is still inadequate interaction
between SHA's organizational effort and the other investments in services,
credit and physical works provided under PIDER. SRA does not yet fully play
the role of general broker between the ejidos and the development program that
the master plan spells out for the future. Largely for this reason PIDERts
planning is still essentially done from above rather than from the grass roots,
and the local communities, by-and-large, have not yet become full participants
in the development process. To date, SRA's contribution has been conceived
as just another input, parallel to those of the other agencies, rather than
as the hub of the program that determines the viability of the rest. Moreover,
there are still instances of political resistance to  SRAts objectives at the
state level which make it virtually impossible for SRA's personnel to make
an impact on the PIDER activities.
17.         Except for the supervisors, the personnel of these SRA brigades
tend to be mostly young people fresh from the university who receive a one-
month orientation before being sent to the field. Since SOFE expanded very
rapidly in a short period while it was still exploring its new approach to
community development, it is hardly surprising that staffing constituted a
major problem. Particular difficulties were encaountered in recruiting,
training and managing the thousand new field workers, who were largely un-
prepared for and unaccustomed to, this environment. SRA 's training division
should provide further in-service training as the new program becomes fully
operational, and CIDERts evaluation effort should be instrumental to help
SRA in learning from doing.
18.         A particular area of potential conflict and lack of cooperation
exists between the DAAC brigades and the extension service teams in the micro
regions. This problem arises in part from the fact that nearly one-half of
SRAts professional and technical personnel in the micro regions are agricul-
tural technicians. These technicians are inevitably tempted to dispense agri-
cultural advice; indeed, this is a sure way to gain the confidence of an
ejido assuming that the advice is well thought out and acceptable. This is,
however, clearly unacceptable to the extension personnel, who see this as their
responsibility. Limiting technical agricultural advice and assistance to the
extension service would imply, of course, a very close working relationship
between the personnel of the two teams, as well as a thorough acquaintance of



ANNEX 3 e
Page   7
extension personnel with DAAC's aims and methods. Both agencies as well as
PIDELRTs managemwt are now aware of this problem and should make a special
effort towards an effective solution.
19.         Along with the approximately two million ejidatarios of infrasubsist-
ence  size, there are also about 900,000 private farms in this category. In the
past, however, SRA has concentrated almost entirely on the ejidos and indi-
genous communities, which are much easier to identify, approach and service.
The private smallholders are either dispersed or may live in villages with
non-poor farmers and non-agricultural population. They also tend to be more in-
dividualistic than the typical ejidatario and are thus harder to organize.
Nevertheless, SRA recognizes that the practical advantages of taking care of
the ejido needs first do not exempt the Government nor its agencies from pro-
viding at least comparable facilities for the small private famners. Thus,
SRA should make a special effort to (a) develop a theoretical approach to
organizing smallholders, among themselves and jointly with ejidatarios, and test
the model or models in one or more micro-regions, (b) exploit fully any ob-
viaUs opportunities for organizing sma lholders and servicing them on an or-
ganized basis.



ANNCX 3f
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEV21OPMENT PROJECT
Extension and Field Demonstration
Background
About half the micro-region populations subsist in semi-arid and
arid climatic regions that together cover 77%0 of the total land area.l/ In
addition, rainfall in other areas is often poorly distributed over the years,
creating considerable uncertainties for farming systems without access to
irrigation. Of the 15 PIDER micro-regions submitted in late 1974 to the
IBRD, seven are located in areas defined as semi-arid and one in an area
defined as arid.  For the other seven micro-regions, _ucated in the better rainfall
areas (700 mI  or higher), the technology for improved rainfed crop and
livestock production is reasonably well-developed. The principal effort
in these areas is needed on wider extension of known techniques such as
pasture improvement, crop rotation, improved seeds and fertilizer applica-
tion.
Equally, the technology and extension practices for the irrigated
are as in the drier micro-regions and in the drier parts of the other seven
micro-regions is adequately covered by PLAMELPA, especially for the type
of basic crops (grain, fruit and fodder) that small farmers produce in the
early years of irrigated agriculture.  PLAMELPA is the aggressive extension
arm of SRH. However, the technology and extension Dractices for the
improved production of agriculture in areas below 700 mm is not as well
developed. Under the Project, a major effort is being made to expand more
widely existing technologies in the higher rainfall and irrigated districts
and to consolidate and expand new technologies (derived from Plan Puebla,
INTA, CONAZA, etc. research and selected national research) for improving
the production of rainfed agriculture in drier areas.
This inadequate rainfall and its uncertain distribution has a
number of implications for the design of strategies supporting technical
innovations in the drier areas. Specialists from the staff supporting the
Plan Puebla strategy argue as follows:
a.  In rainfed areas that       receive 750-9OO mm of
annual precipitation, severe drought in maize
can be expected one to two years in each 10, and
moderate drought in another 2 to 3-1/P years in 10.
This signifies intermediate or moderate risk for
1/ Of Mexico's total land area, about 50% is arid (500 mm or less), and 10`
is semi-arid (500-750 mm). Another 15% of land gets 750-900 mm, but these
areas are also dry for `-6 months of the year, and there are great fluc-
tuations around the average from year to year.  Over 17% of Mexico's
population live in the arid regions (500 mm or less).



AN1TEX 3f
Page 2
maize producers.   Depending on initial yield levels,
average maize yields can be increased tw.ro to fourfold
through the use of existing technology packages.
b.  In areas receiving 500-750 mm of annual precipitation
the expected frequency of severe drought in malze is
2-4 years in each 10, and of moderate drought nearly
flour additional years in each 10.   Farmers assume a
high level of risk.  Present indications are that
average maize yields i-n these regions can be increased
only moder.-tely,   perhaps by no more than 50-75,5.
c. Where rainfall is less than 500 mm per year, maize can
be expected to suffer moderate to severe drought damage
every year.   The level of risk is too high to permit the
use of costly inputs like fertilizer.
T'he t=;ical subsistence farmer in these drier areas has barely enough
land to cover his famaily's basic food requirements of maize and beans during an
average year.   In a good year, he may have a little surplus to sell, and in a
bad year he may have to borrow money to buy part of the famil-V food needs.
Traditionally, maize and beans have been the crops produced almost exclusively
by subsistence farmers in these areas.   It is futile to speculate on whether
ecology determined dietary habits or vice versa:   at the time these patterns
became established, there were no "cropping alternatives".   Cattle raising is
an important ancillary activity but it must be practiced on a very extensive
scale in view of the poor (and already seriously overgrazed) pasture.   It also
does not provide much employment.   Since non-irrigated agriculture until very
recently hardly participated in government sponsored programs of modernization,
93% of Mexican farmers in 1960 were classified as subsistence or below sub-
sistence level.
Maize and beans:  the main staples.    '.-aize occupies about 8 million
ha, i.e., about half of the crop land in the country.   Maize occupies over 65%
of the crop land of the tropical gulf, Pacific south and central regions;  these
three regions contain over 70% of Mexico's maize land.   It is estimated that
one-third of the harvested maize area is economically marginal to maize growing,
mainly because of water deficiency.
Beans are second only to maize in the Mexican diet.  1More than one
million hectares of beans are harvested each year;  about half of this area is
grown interplanted with maize by subsistence farmers.   The main producing areas
are the north central states and the higher central plateau.   The main problems
related to bean production are diseases, poor yielding characteristics of native
strains and rreat heterogeneity of qualit-y factors.
During the 19L0's, maize output and yield grew fastest in the central
plateau, where improved open-pollinated varieties were introduced to farmers.



AIThiEX 3f
Page 3
This was matched only in the newly opened tropical lands in the south.
During the 1950's, only about 3% of all the maize land was planted with
officially produced hybrids, while distribution of open-pollinated varieties
was discontinued.   In the early 1960's the percentage increased to 13% and
fertilizer application was intensified in response to programs such as in
Jalisco and in the State of Mlexico, with the result that yields have increased
in these areas.
Data for 1960-68 indicate that the expansion of area under cultivation
of maize and beans, as well as their yields, rose at a significant rate.   Their
yield performance, however, was greatly overshadowed by that of wheat.   (On the
other hand, output of another crop of great importance to campesinos, in humid
and irrigated areas, sugar cane, showed a sizeable expansion only in area, reflect-
ing newly cultivated land in the tropical south.)
The Puebla Project.  There has been some misunderstanding of the nature
and implications of the Puebla Project both within and outside ihdexico.  Basically,
it is a combined field research-extension program.   Initially, it was focused
exclusively on determining economica'lly optimal plant density and fertilizer appli-
cations for locally grown maize varieties.   Its "secrets" consist of (a) the selec-
tion and motivation of the technical personnel, (b) the selection and training of
campesino communicators to serve as field assistants, (c) working through specially
organized groups of voluntary participants, and (d) the function of the technicians
as agents of change not only among the campesinos but vis-a-vis the banks, the
insurance agency and the fertilizer suppliers.
The program was started in 1967 involving 117,000 ha (80,000 in maize)
and about 43,000 small farmers (ejidotarios and smallholders).   Approximately
1O'O became direct participants in the program.   A total of 33 professionals partic-
ipated in the project from 19967 to 1973, and the annual input of professional time
varied from 2.2 man-rears in the first year to a maximum of 12.3 man-years (includ-
ing an evaluator) in 1971.   Through successive approximations based on both
controlled field trials and actual producer results, 16 different production
systems on different soil types (i.e., an average of 2,800 ha per system) were
identified over the years, and recommendations were developed for each with regard
to (a) optimum planting time, (b) plant density and (c) application rates for
nitrogen and phosphorus.
IVeasurement of the effect of the Project on income and employment
unfortunately has been limited so far to the first four years (through 1970),
i.e., before the new technology was completely developed.   Yet, real income
per family was found to have increased by 24% in general, and from crops alone
by nearly h45' (gross income per hectare from maize production increased by the
same percentage).   But since participants were mainly crop producers, while live-
stock is rather unevenly distributed among the farmers, average total family income
of farmers in the credit lists was still 6.65O less than the average for all farmers.
Average labor input per hectare of maize increased by 30', and it is estimatecd that
the average family spent 11% more time growirng maize, an admittedly small employment



MNNEX 3f
increase compared to existing level of underemployment.   The level of' aspira-
tion towards success in farming increased markedly.
Plan Puebla and PIDER Extension/Field Research
Under PIDER, the experiences of the Puebla Project are being adapted
and widened.   One example is the effort being made in the Zacapoaxtla micro-
region where a program called Plan Zacapoaxtla has been operating for nearly
two years with SAG sponsorship under the PIDEP. financial stimulus.
The purpose of Plan Zacapaoxtla is to transfer to the micro-region
the experience gained and the methodology elaborated in other parts of the state
under Plan Puebla.   The main thrust of this Plan is (i) to carry out field
research programs on the crops of the micro-region (corn, bean, potatoes) as
well as on fruit production, (ii) to implement technological innovations and
(iii) to promote the use of credit to finance the inputs required by farmers
willing to improve their technology.   This Plan, wh ch replaces SAG's tradi.tion-
al extension services in the area, will also act as a coordinator of the invest-
ments made by this agency in the field of soil conservation, supplementary
irrigation, fruit production and livestock improvement centers.   The ultimate
goal of Plan Zacapaoxtla, which will benefit heavily from the experience gained
under Plan Puebla, is to increase yields in the following manner:
Tons/ha              1972              1977
Corn
- Corn               1.0               1.6
- Stalks             0.3               4.0
Beans                0.13              0.16
Potatoes              -                5 .0
Avocados             1.0               7.0
Field research in traditional crops such as corn and beans and in new
crops such as potatoes and dissemination of the results throughout the area are
a main strategy of Plan Zacapaoxtla.   In 1974, the Plan has already over 60
experimental plots selected among most cooperative farmers' own plots to test
fertilization levels, plant density and varieties of each crop.
Experimental Plots of
Plan Zacapaoxtla
Rainfed Agriculture
1.   Productivity Levels                   Number              Season
Maize and beans                         30               WJinter
Potatoes                                10                Winter
Lentils and/or barley                   10               IWinter
2.   New Varieties
Potatoes                                 6                Winter
Wheat and barley                         5W11inter
Total                              61



ANTNEX 3f
Page 5
In terms of extension, the goal of Plan Zacapaoxtla is to reach
25 percent of the corn-growing area in four years.
Applied Research
On a wider scale, the principal and most immediate research thrust
needed for the semi-arid regions is the selection of local, high yielding
varieties of maize (and beans), accompanied by field trials of optimum seeding
density and fertilizer applications similar to the Plan Zacapaoxtla effort.
This may be followed, or accompanied by, selection of other crop species and
varieties that are shown, or believed to be, suitable for the area.   Field
trials would demonstrate whether such new crops are capable of raising small
farmer incomes sufficiently above those of the traditional crops.   This field
research extension approach is also being tested in the Sur de Nuevo Leon micro-
region with pastural results to date.
Research Capability
Starting from virtually no public infrastructure for agricultural
research and the dissemination of its results until about 30 years ago, Iexico
has made substantial progress, particularly in the past five years, in its
efforts to fill this void.   On the whole, technological achievements, particularly
the spectacular breakthroughs. in wheat (with considerable external inputs in all
respects) have been made in irrigated crops, and private enterprise has been
responsible for the bulk of developments in export crops.   Dissemina efforts until
very recently had also been virtually confined to irrigated agriculture, with a
heavy concentration on commercial-size farms rather than on the small producer.
Against this historical background, the current effort to reorient a greatly
reinforced service infrastructure toward the small, marginal producer is enormous,
at least in quantitative terms.   Qualitatively, it is seriously circumscribed by
the thin research base on wchich this effort is built.
Nevertheless, where irrigation is being developed for the benefit of
small producers in PIDER micro-regions, both applicable technology and delivery
systems (including credit and often also marketing and processing) are quite
adequate.   IThat is lacking, are low-risk technological packages applicable to
the semi-arid regions as well as methodologies and suitably prepared and motivated
personnel for their rapid introduction as and when they become available.
The history of agricultural research in Mexico goes back only about
30 years.   In 1960, Mexico integrated the existing organizations into the National
Institute of Agricultural Research (INIA).   A sister orgatization, the Institute
for Livestock Research (INIP), was also subsequentially created.   Significantly,
there was no published material available regarding research results until 1960.
As of 1960, the total Mexican budget for agricultural research amounted to only
14*27 million (US$2.2 million) of which more than M$8 million (US$1.6 million)
were contributed by the Rockefeller Foundation.   Up to 1970, the Foundation
gradually reduced its contributions but government's budget remained unvaried.
A staff of about 250 professionals and semi-professionals was maintained, distri-
buted among 28 experiment sub-stations in 1961, and 32 stations by 1964.



ATITEX 3f
Page 6
Capability for dealing with the problems of small farmers in the less well
endowed regions was limited by previous experience of staff and by the tradi-
tional attachment of local research centers to the large private land-owning
interests.   iloreover, most of the technicians were not trained to deal with
problems of animal husbandry, pastures, fruits and vegetables.
Until 1942 there were hardly any improved seeds available to Mexican
farmers.   During the early years of agricultural research in Miexico, highest
priority was assigned to research on maize and wheat.   The Government agency
which monopolized seed maize production by 1961 had produced seed for only
about 2% of the country's maize land, but output subsequently rose to a maximum
of 12'.   Mloreover, the 60 varieties of improved maize seed available were
suited to only about two-fif-ths of the land under maize.
Present research institutions.  Although available resources increased
since 1970, SAG's agricultural research infrastructure, as represented by INTIA
and TINTIP, appears still quantitatively adequate to respond to the challenge of
the PIDER program.   Clear policy directives are needed if the institutions are
to respond to the needs of PTDER.  INIA now has eight regional crop research
centers and 40 sub-centers.   These are still by-and-large located in the more
productive agricultural ateas, but recently many experimental fields have been
established in poorer areas.   INIA presently has 450 professional researchers.
LNIP has a total of 11 livestock research centers around the country.   Seven
of these are located in the tropical south, the area of greatest potential for
expansion of cattle production, and two are in highland areas.   There are only
two centers - in cooperation with cattlement's associations - in the vast areas
of semi-arid cattle raising.   Both INTA and INIP do pasture research, although
the bulk of whatever is being done in this field is INIP's responsibility.
Still, only one of the centers (Chihuahua) has data on dryland pasture regenera-
tion, and little attention seems to be paid to this aspect.
Other public institutions (in addition to many of the agricultural
colleges) are also engaged in research, *some of it in coordination with INTA
and INIP.   SRH reinforces SAG's research efforts in small-scale irrigated
farming, including management aspects.   And CNIZA (National Center for Research
in Arid Zones) has an active, though low-level program for research on arid zone
resource management and plant technology.
Extension
Agricultural extension work became institutionalized in Mexico in the
1950's about 10 years after the first initiatives in publicly sponsored research.
While the Ministry of Agriculture has had principal responsibility in this field,
other agencies have also played a role; some of them - such as SRH in irrigation -
for many years, others more recently.
SAG's extension service was created in 1953, but until 1963 its staff was
confined to a total of 230 agronomists.   However, in 1964, several institutions
were merged and staff rose to 435.   During the early years extension staff was



ANNEX 3f
Page 7
concentrated, as was research, in the eight agriculturally most important states.
TUntil five years ago, SAG's agricultural extension personnel comprised only
graduates of agricultural and veterinary colleges (Ingenieros Agronomos and
Mledicos Veterinarios Zooteenistas - or IIVZ's).   Middle-level agricultural
technicians (Peritos and Tecnicos Agricolas) began to be employed in 1969, and by
the end of 1972h one-fourth of the 1,070 agricultural extension technicians
were middle-level personnel working in about half the states.   From the start,
the extension service included home advisers (sub-professional female social
workers trained in special schools), and by 1967, there were 100 home advisers
working in eight states.   Doth types of middle-level technicians are typically
of campesino background, unlike the professionals who are more likely to come
from urban, middle-class families.
Extension and PTDER.  In mid-1974, a total of 741l SAC extension person-
nel was assigned to 33 micro-regions under PIDER financing.   hiddle-level agri-
cultural extensionists were present in only 2Lh of the micro-region teams.   This
reflects, on the one hand, the lack of a uniforn criterion at the 1.inistary level
and, on the other, continued prejudice among old-line SAG professionals in the
field.   The impact of SAG's agricultural extension workers on farm technology
in the micro-regions is likely to be relatively small, due to the absence of a
dry-areas technical package, inadequate staff preparation in experience and lack
of institutional coordination.   Numbers are more than sufficient and thev have,
by-and-large, adequate transportation and technical backstopping.
The real problem is a qualitative one.   This has to do, on the one
hand, with the large proportion of recently graduated technicians, their lack
of experience and the nature of their technical training and on the other hand
with their preparation and motivation for dealing effectively with small farners.
The training in agricultural colleges is generally said to be inadequate to equip
a new graduate for giving acceptable advice to small farmers.   There is a  lack
of emphasis on practice - especially as regards the particular problems of small
farming.   Moreover, technical training received in one ecological area - e.g.,
the dry, temperate North - is often not adaptable to the agriculture of a different
region - e.g., the humid, sub-tropical South.   SAG is attempting to overcome
these deficiencies through short courses, both in the field and at central locations.
Efforts are being made to create a close nexus between the extensionists
and the field researchers of INIA and INIP.   However, the administrative separation
of extension and research appear to make it difficult to establish real, continuous
two-way communication.   Another problem is the high rate of turnover of field
personnel particularly in 197h.   With most micro-regions not fully staffed until
late 1973, the aggregate number of field resignations in 1974 was 259 (1973 resig-
nations were 111) and amounted to 35% of the PIDER-authorized staffing as of mid-
year.   The main cause appears to be the rapid expansion in demand from many
pub lic agencies who offered more attractive salaries.
SAG is not the only institution providing technical assistance in micro-
regions.   Above all, other SAG departments - in addition to the two research
institutes - are heavily involved in their particular specialized activities:
Agricultural Engineering (Water); Soil and Water Conservation, Forestriy and



ALTEX 3f
Page 3
Livestock each with its own substantial allocation of PIDE1 funds.   Even
though they do not assign personnel exclusively to micro-regions, their
state staff sometimes need to be strengthened to enable them to carry this
increased workload.   But coordination among these activities and with
extension agents is often lacking.   Extension-type activities of SRX and
the banks are perhaps more effective than those of the extension service
because they are almost always focused on specific projects, generally on
irrigated land.   Their personnel are not assigned specifically to micro-
regions but their overall capability for dealing with the country's small
farmers and poorer regions has been strengthened materially in recent years:
a.  The Department of Operation of Small Irrigation Units, of
SRH now has about 100 ingenieros agronomos (of whom 75 are
in the field) and 300 middle-level technicians (who are
directly in charge of "zones" under the supervision of
"regional" ingenieros) .
b.  The Banco de Credito Ejidal and the Banco Agropecuario
now have a total of 50O ingenieros agronomos each and
a combined total of 40O-500 middle-level technicians.
Moreover, of the 500 DAAC technicians and promoters funded by PIDER, 43%
are agricultural technicians.



ANNEX 3f
Page 9
The optimal size is roughly 1500 hec. of irrigated field crops,
500 ha. of orchards or 500 herd of cattle.
Whenever the investments in the PIDER areas justify the full-time presence
of a professional manager, this model can be used by the PIDER coordinator.
Most PIDER regions though, will have smaller units of intensive
agriculture to which the second form of organization, the Unidad de Servicios
Ejidales, seems better applicable.
The Unidad de Servicios Ejidales (Ejido Service Units) USE
The unidad de servicios ejidales (USE) model has been implemented
by the Banco Agropecuario to give integral technical assistance to ejidos which
are engaged in capital intensive agricultural activities (e.g. fruit orchards,
dairy, intensive beef and hog raising) but on an economic scale which does
not justify the presence of a professional manager. The USE is a small company
organized to provide technical services to several ejidos located in the same
vicinity. This firm is usuaIly headed by an agronomist specialized in farm
management and includes agronomists, accountants-auditors, veterinaries,
economists, organization and communication specialists, according to the
requirements of the ejidos assisted 2 . The technical services are paid for by
the benefitted ejidos, out of production credit, in proportion to the number
of hectares and of livestock served 2/.
Experience shows that the ejidatarios pay willingly the cost of
technical services (which in the above branches amounts to roughly 5% of
total production costs) whenever they feel that they perceive direct benefits
from such services. Providing technical services through a government extension
service brings the following advantages:
a) Adequate technical assistance is guaranteed, since the number and
quality of professional personnel are not limited by a chronically
insufficient extension budget.
b) The technical staff are employees of the ejidos, who can remove
incompetent or excessive technical personnel. Thus the USE
system cuts down both beaurocratic inefficiency and paternalism.
/ The approximate requirements are: 1 agronomist per 2,000 ha., l sociologist-
organizer per 3,000 ha., 1 accountant-auditor per 5,000 ha., 1 economist per
20,000 ha., 1 communication specialist per 60,000 ha.
g The bank participates in the costs of maintaining the USE during an initial
period.



ANNEX 3f
Page 10
c) The USE staff live in the community, unlike extension or bank
functionaries who make periodic visits from headquarters, and
therefore have longer effective working hours and closer contact
with the beneficiaries.
The first USE has recently been installed to serve 8 ejido dairies
(with about 400 beneficiaries and 4,000 cows) in the state of Morelos. Ten
additional USE's are planned for establishment soon in cooperative dairies
of the Sur de Jalisco region. The system promises-to be of general applica-
bility in PIDER regions wherever significant multi-annual productive
investments, fruit -orchards, livestock) are contemplated.



ANNEX 3 (g)
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL EDUCATION
Education in Rural Mexico
1.          Mexico's education system has developed rapidly in the past
decade, but various critical problems remain. A most critical problem is
the severe inequality of education opportunities between urban and rural
areas. The limited efforts in the past to educate the rural population is
evident from the low literacy rate of 59 percent in rural areas as
against 80 percent in urban centers. Current enrollment ratios begin to
show some results of the Government's efforts to redress this imbalance,
while various nonformal education and training activities are being developed
to better meet the needs of the rural population.
2.          Rural Primary Education. In 1970, total enrollments in primary
education were a high 96 percent of the 7 - 12 age group. However, large
numbers of students are overaged as a result of the system's inefficiency,
and the net enrollment ratio was only 71 percent. Efficiency is particularly
low in rural areas where only 15 percent of the students complete the
primary cycle as against 60 percent in the cities. A main reason for this
disparity is the large number (h6 percent) of incomplete rural schools, that
do not offer the full six-year primary school program. As a result, the
lower grades in these schools are swollen by repeaters who cannot continue
into higher grades. A key constraint to the provision of primary education
in rural MIexico is the high dispersion of its population. Some 20 million
people, or 40 percent of the total population live in communities with less
than 2,500 inhabitants, and 3 million of them in communities with less than
200 inhabitants; the minimum under which the establishment of schools would
be uneconomical.
3.          The Government's policy in primary education is directed towards
the full participation of all primary school age youth. To this effect,
11,000 primary classrooms are being constructed per year. However, this con-
struction program is still heavily urban oriented. In 1973, only 20 percent
of the new school capacity under the regular program was constructed in rural
areas, where 40 percent of the population lives. The PIDER program reduced
this imbalance by adding some 4.0 percent to the construction program for
rural classrooms. Further, the M4inistry of Education is developing several
programs to reach the more scattered population, such as mobile classrooms
and part-time boarding facilities.
4.          In recent years, several measures have been taken to improve
the quality of primary education, but much remains to be done. A free textbook



AfNAEX 3 (g)
Page   2
program has made a significant impact on quality, especially in the rural
areas. Also, a massive teacher upgrading program has been instrumental in
improving the quality of particularly rural teachers. Much work has still to
be done, however, on curriculum development and teacher preparation, issues
which go beyond the scope of a rural development project.
5.           -Other Rural Education. A major effort is underway to expand agri-
cultural secondary education, From 1972 to 1974 the number of lower-secondary
agricultural schools (grades 7 - 9) increased from 158 to 466. Another
90 of these schools will be established under the regular school construction
program, many of which in the PIDER micro regions, but without PIDER financing.
A possible Bank-financed education project would extend these schools with
agricultural training facilities. These facilities would serve the dual pur-
pose of strengthening the production training of students and functioning as
focal points for nonformal education and training of the farmers and their
families in the area. Major nonformal education programs are the Cultural
Missions and Rural Development Brigades, while radio and television are
actively used to reach the rural population. The role of the agricultural ex-
tension service is analysed in Annex 3 (f).
6.           Training of Rural Development Staff. As a result of Mexico's in-
creased emphasis on rural development, the number of staff working in this
field has increased rapidly in the last few years, and many new staff have not
received adequate on-the-job training. Thus, there is a need for more syste-
matic training of both new and existing staff. The Agrarian Department (DA.AC)
and the agricultural extension service are both considering the establishment
of a network of centers for pre-service and in-service training of their per-
sonnel. Furthermore, the Center of Research in Rural Development (CIDER) will
have an important training and information function, The center will provide
a range of courses for all staff involved in executing the PIDER program, now
numbering 2,700 in 14 agencies. The courses would be mainly micro-region
based and aim at improving the "staff-campesino" interface at the local level.
Results from the evaluation programs will be introduced in this training
program and diffused through seminars, monthly newsletters and other communi-
cation means. The operation of CIDER would be supported by the Project.
The Project
7.           Content. In line with the Governmentys policy for primary edu-
cation, the Project aims at the establishment of sufficient school capacity
to enroll all primary school-age youth in the communities served by the
Project, i.e. al1 communities in the 30 micro regions with 200 - 3,000 inhabi-
tants. To this end the Project would provide for the construction and furni-
shing of 5h0 new classrooms in new and existing, incomplete primary schools,
thereby expanding school capacity by 27,000 student places, Further, 260 class-
rooms would be replaced and 350 classrooms renovated, thereby improving
school facilities for another 30,500 students. Two of the new schools and
25 of the renovated schools would have part-time boarding facilities to attend
the scattered school population in two micro regions. Teaching materials,
textbooks and staff for these schools would be provided by the Ministry of
Education and financed from its regular recurrent budget. To ensure that this



ANNEX 3 (g)
Page   3
provision be timely and adequate, the location and timing of school con-
struction would be closely coordinated with this Ministry. The resulting en-
rollment expansion in primary education would be 0,3 percent and the increase
in the recurrent budget for education, a marginal 0.1 percent by 1980,
which would be part of the normal increase in the education budget.
8.           Execution. The implementation of this project item would be the
responsibility of CAPFCE, a semi-autonomous federal agency responsible for the
planning and execution of all federal school construction in Mexico. During
the 30 yea-s since its foundation, CAPFCE has increased its capacity from
300 to 15,000 classrooms per year. It has 31 regional offices charged with
on-site supervision of school construction. CAPFCE has been successful in de-
veloping low-cost construction methods. Deliberate policies emphasizing
standardization of design, prefabrication of structural elements and compu-
terization of the construction process have led to an average cost of new
construction amounting to US $ 5,400 per classroom, or US $ 100 per m2 of con-
struction costs. These costs vary widely among the regions, but specially
adapted construction systems keep the cost of constructing in remote areas in
line with regional averages. For example, local materials are used to the
extent possible, and apart from the site, which should be donated by the local
community, other local contributions are actively promoted.
9.           Benefits.  The objective of the primary education component is
essentially to reinforce the long-term benefits of the Project as a whole.
First, by establishing lasting literacy and numeracy, primary education does
condition the access of farmers to modern agriculture and provide a basis
for a more efficient transmission of knowledge and skills by the agricultural
extension service. Second, primary education helps change the attitudes of the
rural population and reduce their resistance to change, thus reinforcing the
basis for sustained econmmic and social development in the long run. Third,
primary education is an important instrument for improving the quality of
rural life, and thus complementary to the pack-age of productive and social
investments provided under the Project.



MANEX 3h
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEALTH
Introduction
Rural health forms part of the Project's minimum package of social
services required to reinforce the basis for sustained development, laid by
the directly productive investments. Better health not only contributes
directly to social welfare as the final aim of development, but also in-
creases labor availability and productivity, improves learning ability,
avoids treatment costs and may eventually lead to a reduction in fertility.
Present Situation of Rural Health Services
As in most developing countries, gastro-intestinal and respiratory
diseases are the leading causes of mortality and morbidity.   They are
amenable to low-cost intervention. However, in rural areas availability,
accessibility and quality of health services are extremely poor. The major
causes are the virtual lack of the lowest tier of health care delivery, i.e.
the community health post, the ineffective operation of the health center
level, the lack of auxiliary and community level manpower, and the almost
exclusive reliance on staffing facilities with medical graduates doing their
"social service" (Pasantes). Related to these are the lack of community
participation in promoting health, the inadequacy of outreach preventive
services and environmental sanitation, and the insufficiency of input
supplies and of recurrent cost financing.
The Public Health Ministry (SSA) is the main responsible agency
for both the development and the operation of rural health care.]  Under
SSA, the lowest level at which the system operates is the health post (Casa
de S-{lud), established in small communities, staffed by an auxiliary nurse
and/or visited periodically by a physician. However, only some 2,000
health posts have been constructed and most of these are not working
efficiently. At the next tier, the standard three-bed health center is
located in small rural towns and is staffed by Pasantes and auxiliary
nurses. As state governments are reluctant to contribute to health center
operating costs, the existing network of about 1,500 health centers is not
being further expanded.  At present, only 8, of health centers operate on
the standard minimum budget required for effective service. Because of
SSk's difficulties in attracting and retaining Pasantes in remote rural
areas, a large proportion of health centers are not being adequately staffed.
As a result most health centers are underutilized. People depend on
traditional healers and midwives and on self-referral to available and
accessible sub-urban and urban hospitals.
1/ The Institute for Indian Affairs (INI) is operating health services in
areas with predominantly indigenous population and the Social Security
Institute (IMSS) is increasingly moving into rural areas.



ANNEX 3h
Page 2
Future Government Policies in Rural Health
The National Health Plan 1974-1983 presents major shifts in
health sector policies, particularly for the rural population, and
establishes ambitious goals for 1983. In rural health, emphasis is being
placed on (i) the promotion of community participation in health care, by
organizing local Health Committees and by training traditional midwives
and local volunteers; (ii) the development of the grass roots level of the
referral system, i.e., health posts operated by the Health Committees; and
(iii) the training and attracting of Community Health Physicians, Pasantes and
auxiliary personnel to staff rural health centers and to supervise and
support health posts. Salary levels are to be substantially increased.
In particular, the Plan envisages the construction of about 10,000 health
posts and the training of some 30,000 community health workers and 10,000
Community Health Physicians by 1983.
In its basic approach, the Plan constitutes a sensible program
of low cost health delivery in rural areas. However, the document lacks
estimates of investment and recurrent costs and assessment of financing
mechanisms and constraints. Moreover, SSA is recommending substantial
further elaboration of the design of the different components and strengthen-
ing of its somewhat limited capabilities for implementation. While there
is more experience on the predominantly medical issues (e.g., the activity-
mix of health workers),criteria for financing, operating and managing the
system have yet to be developed and tested (e.g., community contribution
to operating costs). Therefore, pilot or first phase projects have to pre-
cede large-scale implementation.
The Project
Under the Project, (i) the network of rural health facilities
would be expanded and improved in all micro-regions as part of the minimum
package of social services; and (ii) in three selected micro-regions, a
more comprehensive low cost rural health delivery system would be developed.
Project Micro-Regions (30). The Project would provide for renova-
tion, construction and equipment of about 220 rural health posts and 70
simple rural health centers in all 30 micro-regions.I/ This health component
is quantified in the following:
j   liot including additional health posts and rural health centers
which would be constructed in three selected micro-regions under
the pilot project (page 3).



AiNEX 3h
Page 3
Per                        Unit Cost  (US$)
Total     Micro-
No.      Region      New Construction      Renovation      Equipment
Construction
Health Posts       220        4                3,400          ca. 1,700           600
Health Centers      70        2               42,000               n.a.         8,000
Staff/Unit                   Annual           Average       Total
Community                                Operating Cost/  Persons         Persons
Health Worker    Auxiliary   Pasante    Unit (US$)         Served/Unit   Served
Operation                                                        per
Health Posts         1        -               -      ca. 3.50 capita  ca. 1,000   ca. 120,000
Health Centers       -        2              1-2    11,500-15,500    ca. 7,000   ca. 420,000
Health posts would be established by SSA's Construction Commission in communities of
50o  to 2,500 persons.  The building (70 m2) would include a waiting room,an examination
and treatment room, and a delivery room,and nave only the most elementary equipment.
SSA would promote local contribution of building materials and labor to the equivalent
of at least 20;o of the health post cost. Health posts would be staffed by community
health workers, trained to treat common diseases, conduct immunizations, and to pro-
mote environmental health, nutrition and health education. They would be supervised
by Pasantes. The annual operating cost is estimated to be about US$3.50 per capita
and would be paid for by the community. Assurances would be obtained that health
posts would only be constructed in communities agreeing (1) to contribute at least 20%
to investment and (2) to fully cover non-staff health post operating costs.
Standard, three-bed health centers (type C) would be established by SSA in
rural toiwns with a population of between 3,000 and 10,000 persons and with availability
of ancillary services (transportation, water supply, electricity). They would be
staffed by Pasantes and auxiliary nurses, supervise community health workers and
serve as referral points for health posts. Operating cost woud be about US$7,500 per
annum (not including the Pasante salary of US$4,000). During negotiations, assurances
would be obtained from government that (1) health posts and centers would be appro-
priately staffed and (2) health centers would be adequately budgeted.
Micro-Regions.       In order to develop and improve
criteria for implementation of the National Health Plan (which aims at increased
coverage and effectiveness of rural health services),                micro-regions would
be selected among PIDER micro-regions in the Northern, Central and Southern parts
of the country. Selection criteria would ensure maximum diversity in community
characteristics - particularly population density, social structure, income levels,
health status and disease patterns, and existing health services and resources. The
selection would allow for control areas within and/or outside the micro-regions.



ANNEX 3h
Page 4
Under the Bank's new health policy, the pilot project would explore
alternatives in delivering comprehensive health services in rural areas and
determine the cost-effective design of the different components, including
health-related activities (e.g., nutrition education, water supply and
sanitation). Past experience suggests that the following issues should be
emphasized: (i) ensuring reliance on preventive care; (ii) integrating
environmental sanitation, nutrition and health education activities; (iii)
achieving community involvement and participation; (iv) assuring adequate
and non-distortive financing of local scheme; (v) organizing and super-
vising each level of the system; (vi) designing the curricula for community
health workers, auxiliaries and community physicians; (vii) improving the
effectiveness of the Pasante system; (viii) increasing the attractiveness
of rural practice; and (ix) developing better supply logistics.
In the selected micro-regions, the project would provide for pro-
motion of community participation in health activities, the construction
of additional rural health posts and centers, the preparation of community
health workers and auxiliaries, the in-service training for other personnel,
the development of effective operation and management capacity, and a
strong research and evaluation component. In order to arrive at preliminary
cost estimates, some likely features of the pilot system have been quanti-
fied. Approximately 100 health posts would give coverage to all communities
with populations between 500 and 2,500 persons and would be staffed by
health workers, selected by the community and trained for about three
months on an intermittent basis at a cost of about US$500 each. Some 10
additional health centers would supervise and support 5 to 10 health posts
and would be staffed by Pasantes and/or community health physicians and
auxiliaries with 10 to 18 months training at a cost of between US$1,000 and
US$1,500. Using sample survey and other techniques, the effect of different
health care measures and health-related components of the rural development
package (e.g,, water supply, rural stores) on health status would be
monitored and results be evaluated to derive cost-effectiveness criteria
for rural health policy.
Different sub-units of SSA would be responsible for the design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the pilot project. Other
government agencies (INI, IMSS) and Mexican universities would possibly
be involved. Due to the pilotpijectts resulting from only recent shifts
in health sector policies under the National Health Plan, details of
project organization and management still have to be deteFmined. Under the
Bank's new health policy, Bank staff would participate in the design, imple-
mentation and evaluation of the pilot project, in order to develop criteria
for the design of health components in future rural development projects.



ANEIEX 3i
Page 1
l!EXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
Introduction
The Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) builds, operates and
maintains electricity generation and distribution facilities. It is a
decentralized state agency with a record of competence and effectiveness.
It has a large capacity for carrying out investment projects. In the
years 1970-74, it made investments in rural electrification at an annual
rate of more than US$40 million. PIDER will supply CFE with US$53.6 million
in the period 1973-76 for the electrification of villages in the 52 micro-
regions in operation. PIDER funds are projected to provide about 40% of all
rural electrification resources in the years 1973-76. Since PIDER is
limited to single investments in a. micro-region not exceeding US$5OO,O00,
larger investments, such as major additions to the national grids are not
made under PIDER auspices. There such large investments are needed to
implement the PIDER electrification projects, such outlays will be under-
taken through the ordinary or normal programs of CFE2.1
General Policies Affecting Rural Electrification
CFE considers part of rural electrification the conveyance of
electrical power to all population centers with less than 10,000 inhabitants
and whose main occupation is agriculture.  At the end of 1973, rural popula-
tion in Mexico was 29.3 million dispersed among 98,995 villages. Of these
totals, 15,510 rural towns and villages and their 17.1 million inhabitants
(58o of rural population) had access to electricity at that date. The goals
of CFE are to supply electricity to villages, to agricultural and grazing
activities and to rural industries.
The general criteria governing rural electrification are the
following:
a. Giving priority to projects that will stimulate use
of electric power for directly productive activities;
b. Supplying electricity to projects designed to bring
about a global improvement in the quality of rural
life; and
j For example, all available power in the Yucatan micro-region is being
used. Since PIDER investments call for the electrification of' 87 wells
and 16 villages, a 100 km 110 kv transmission line is necessary. That
line will be financed via CFE's ordinary budget.



ANNEX 3i
Page 2
c.  Attempting to make electricity available to the
largest number of people and enterprises at the lowest
possible cost. mnis implies the integration into a
national grid, if at all possible, as centrally gener-
ated power is very much more economical.
These policies are expected to contribute (even if indirectly) to
the promotion of local and state level participation in the planning,
financing and ex cution of the works and to the creation of additional jobs
in rural areas.P
Additional criteria for the selection of localities to electrify
are the following:
a. manifested interest of the local population;
b. availability of energy at a reasonable distance
without undue technical complications;
c.  availability of resources to the Government and
to the beneficiaries and the possibility of including
rural electrification in integrated rural development
projects.
The Project
The project would bring electricity to some 30,000 rural families
living in 350 villages located in some of the poorest areas of Mexico.  The
total to be invested is the equivalent of US$12.1 million, of which 10%
will be for the electrification of directly productive investments and the
rest for servicing the population.  The average cost of electrifying villages
in the PIDER project is US$70 per person. PIDER's goal is to bring
electricity to most of the villages in the range of 300-3,000 inhabitants
in the selected micro-regions.  CFE investment criteria under PIDER satisfy
the general guidelines governing rural electrification enumerated above and
are detailed as follows:
a. Eligible villages should have a population of at least
300 inhabitants and an access road.
b. Costs per person would not exceed US$150 in 1974 prices.
c.  Households would contribute 20<o of the investment costs.
d. In addition to the 20% contribution to the investment
costs, beneficiaries would also be charged the costs
of internal household wiring (equivalent to about US$25).
21  Financial participation by state goverlnments, 25 to 33,%, is conducted
through State Electrification Juntas.



AINNEX 3i
Page 3
CFE makes credit available for this purpose where
necessary.
e. Since the installation of meters adds US$50 to the
costs that have to be borne by the householders,
meters would, as a general rule, not be installed for
residential users in order to make electricity acces-
sible to even the poorest households. Meters would be
installed for agricultural, commercial, industrial and
public users.
f. Operation and maintenance costs would be fully covered
by user charges. Assurances that these criteria would
be satisfied for investments under the project were
obtained during negotiations.
CFE's capacity to carry on such a program has been amply demonstrated
during the first three years of the rural electrification plan and the first
year (1973) of the PIDER project.
Internal Organization of CFE
CFEts activities are conducted through a number of Gerencias
Generales (G.G.), such as rural electrification, operation and maintenance,
large scale construction, planning and control. The operating G.G.ts are
divided into a number of regional Divisions (generally 10). Bach Division
is composed of any number of Sub-gerencias (S. Gs), who actually carry out
the work.
The G.G. for rural electrification carries out the National Rural
Electrification Plan by designing and building necessary works and then
turning them over to the Operation and Maintenance G.G. This G.G. contains
four sub-gerencias that carry on specific functions such as generation,
transmission, distribution and supply to commercial users. A state-level
body, the Electrification Junta is involved in most steps during the planning
and implementation stages and supplies assistance to the local populations
on administrative matters (e.g., billing, collections, accounting, dealing
with CFE administration for repairs, etc.) and centralizes such activities
at the state level. A special department of CFE deals with State Electrifica-
tion Juntas.
Benefits
Foremost among Bank criteria for the appraisal of a rural
electrification project is whether it is part of a well-thought out rural
development program. All evidence suggests that, with PIDMR, this is
indeed the case. Since PIDER strongly emphasizes productive projects, the
precondition for successful electrification exists.



AlNN;EX 3i
Page 4
Since most benefits arising from electrification are related to
use of electricity, the expected rate of growTth of consumption is a useful
proxy for the benefits. Lndications from presently electrified villages
suggest that rapid growth can occur in consumption and in the nuamber of
customers../  CFEts insistence that electricity be brought preferentially
to commwnities where productive investments are taking place ensures that
consumption will grow.
In order that power consumption grows dynamically, a (minimum)
threshold income is necessary.  Since PIDR operates in relatively poor
rural areas it may be that such a threshold (however defined) is not
satisfied. This means that growth of consumption may be sluggish for a few
years until the productive projects of PIDER start increasing local incomes.
Thereafter, higher levels of consumption should be reached fast as house-
holds can afford more appliances and productive investments reach maturity.
j   The town of Ticul in Yucatan was electrified in 1967:  consumption grew
from 68 kwh per customer per month to 256 kwh in 1973. The number of
connections increased 150f over the same period.  Consumption by resi-
dential users can be exDected to go from 4o kwh/month to 130 kwh/month
in seven to eight years.



ANNEX 3J
Page   1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOP MET PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Introduction
Adequate and safe water supply and sanitary waste disposal are
basic elements in environmental sanitation in both rural and urban areas
(see Annex 3h on Health). Fullest benefits from the water supply system
will result when water is provided directly to the house through a house
connection. Due to financial constraints, simpler systems based on public
hydrants may be necessary for smaller villages. To assure full benefits
from new water facilities, increased emphasis on health education would
accompany their installation.
Present SituatiOn of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
In Mexico in 1973, 38% of the rural population had water supply
services through house connections or public hydrants and that adequate
excreta disposal facilities were minimal. In the micro-regions included
in the project the percentage with water supply services is much lower than
the country-wide average.
There are two agencies in Mexico which are carrying out the major
programs in providing water supply services for rural communities; the
Commission Constructore e Ingeniria Sanitaria de la Secretaria de Salubridad
y Asistencia (SSA) and La Direccion de Pequenas Obras de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado de la Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH). SSA concentrates
on the smaller villages and SRH on the larger towns. Both agencies construct
systems under the PIDER project. While SRH operates and maintains the systems
it builds, the systems built by SSA are turned over to the towns which sign
agreements with the State Water Commissions (in the 19 States where they
exist) for operation and maintenance.  In both cases, supervision is sporadic
and as a result operation and maintenance of most rural water supply systems
are deficient. Corrective steps are being undertaken with the formation and
strengthening df state level Water Commissions specifica,lly charged with the
operation and maintenance of SSA constructed systems. Assistance through a
UNDP/WHO project is to be provided to SRH for strengthening its 0 and M
procedures.
The ProJect
The Project would provide for rural water supply *rstems to benefit
approximately 250,000 persons at an average cost of US$50 per person, a cost
in line with the Latin America averages ranging from US$40 to US$60 per



ANNEX 3.i
Page   2
beneficiary benefited and a 1974 average of US$48 in mexico.  Self-help
programs for the installation of sanitary privies will be encouraged under
the Project by the state Water Supply Juntas. The Project will provide
for the cost of cement and wire mesh reinforcing required for the construction
of privy slabs built by the villagers during the installation of the water
supply system, under the supervision of the local public health representatives.
The following criteria are being established for the rural water
supply component of the Project:
a.   Irrespective of the agency constructing the system (SRH or SSA)
uniform criteria,                        would be used for village
selection and project design.
b.  A local water committee would be organized with the assistance of
the agency constructing the system, to provide for the town's coopera-
tion before and during construction, as well as to earry out the
operation and maintenance of the system under the guidance of the
agency respaasible for  0 and M. Before system construction starts,
the town should enter into a contract with the constructing agency
(SSA or SRH) which would specify the contribution to be nade by the
town and the services and contributions to be provided by the
constructing agency both during the construction period and during
the all important operation and maintenance phase.
C.  The town would contribute no less than 15% of the construction cost
of the system, in cash, labor, land required for the system, and/or
local materials supplied to the site. A larger contribution would
give the town a higher priority for earlier construction. In special
cases where a 15% contribution requirement would work a hardship,
the situation would be reviewed by the Bank.
d. The actual house ccnmection (line and tap) would be installed at
the expense of the beneficiary. PIDER would finance the cost of
the system plus the cost of the line from the distribution system to
the beneficiary property line (see the attached chart which illustrates
the householder and the PIDER financed component).



ANNEX 3j
Page   3
f.  Operation and maintnence costs would be covered by appropriate charges
set by the agency responsible for supervising 0 & M, in cooperation
with the beneficiaries. 0 & M charges would be collected by the
local committee which would retain that portion necessary for system
operation, passing on that portion required for system maintenance
to its account maintained by the agency responsible for supervision
of O & M of the system. The same agency would be responsible for
promotion of new systems and promotion of Project-supported self-help
projects for pit privies or septic tanks and related health matters
associated with the sanitary use of the newly supplied water.
Advantage will be taken of the mass approach in designing and con-
structing rural water supply systems. These are adapted to the financial .
and operational capabilities of the people being served, using multiple systems
where technically feasible. Construction of sewage systems would not be
financed under the Project. Promotion activities will be maintained on a
continuing basis from before construction through operation and maintenance.
In addition to the health education activities of all staff connected with the
water supply and exereta disposal activities, special health education programs
would be carried out highlighting the proper we and care of water supply and
exereta disposal facilities.



ANNEX 3j
Chart I
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ILLUSTRATION OF A REPRESENTATIVE 1000 PERSON VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
WITH DEEP WELL & HOUSE CONNECTIONS
POPULATION 1972  1047
1992  1500
HOUSE CONNECTIONS 132                                                               1 0om
DEEP
I       WELL
P   5HP. PUMP
/    .2.70 lPs.
2-0~~~~~~~~~~~~2
<   2L                          1 h s -T -   e~~- 
I                         /                                   ,       
30 M3 STORAGE                 /
TANK
n            ~~~~~20
INSTALLATION
INSIDE PROPERTY
AT OWNER'S EXPENSE                                                                                            100 METERS
PROPERTY LINE
I   INSTALLATION TO
|HERE AS PART OF PROJECT
TYPICAL HOUSE               g 
CONNECTION               SHUT-OFF            DISTRIBUTION
VALVE              LINE                                                                      WVorld Bank-9420



ANNEX 3k
Page   1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NUTRITION
PIDER and Nutrition
The PIDER Program does not contain a specific component dealing
with nutritional improvement in the micro-regions. PIDERts nutritional im-
pact is - by and large - indirect:(1) by reinforcing the Conasupo delivery
system operated through its rural store networks (fortified tortilla flour);
(2) by improving the capabilities of participating micro-region farmers to
broaden their cropping patterns beyond maize into beans and fruits, vege-
tables and small stock;-and (3) by introducing an integrated package of
supporting services including health care and home economics extension ser-
vices. The latter groups are expanding their operations in the PIDER micro
regions, directing their activities at improved home management, child care,
and especially better nutrition planning. The extension and health elements
of reinforced nutrition support are dealt with in Annexes 3 d and 3 h. The
problems of inadequate nutrition, especially in the Southern parts of Mexico,
and the thinking of Consupo in dealing with these problems in relation to the
PIDER Program are outlined below.
Background
The southeastern portion of the country (Chiapas, Yucatin, Oaxa-
ca) has the most serious nutritional deficiencies; the central region is
slightly better off; the northern and coastal regions are in the best situa-
tion. These regions also have a significant number of PIDER programmed micro-
regions, some 15 as of Dec 197h.
There is a calorie deficit in the southern rural areas of
8 - 10 percent relative to minimum requirements. The main nutritional defi-
ciency, however, is protein intake. The basic staple, maize, is low in protein
content and quality with triptophane being the limiting amino acid. In the
northern regions the greater consumption of frijoles relative to maize has
resulted in better quality protein intake with methionine being the limiting
amino acid. The consumption of animal protein (milk, eggs, and meat) is low
and accentuates the protein deficiency.
Deficiencies in calcium and iron were found among 80 percent of
the rural women and preschool-age children in these areas. Riboflavin and
niacin shortages also exist. Endemic pelagra exists in the Yucatgn peninsula,
perhaps due to the custom of washing the corn 7 times in the tortilla
making0 Vitamin A and ascorbic acid deficiencies also exist probably due to
the low consumption of fruits and vegetables. The nutritional deficiencies
are most serious among rural children.



ANNEX 3k
Page 2
Strategy Implications
There are several general implications of this overview of the
nutritional profile and dietary patterns of rural Mexicans for the efforts
of Conasupo within the PIDER program.
(1)   Nutritional deficiencies vary in severity and kind in different
regions and, therefore, nutrition supplements must be tailored to
the particular requirements of the specific region.
(2)   Critical target consumer groups from a nutritional standpoint are
the pregnant and lactating women and children under five; and pro-
ducts are being designed to meet these groups' needs.
(3)   Making new products available on the store shelf will not ensure that
it will reach the target groups; dietary patterns and food beliefs
must be dealt with in product design and via consumer education.
CONASUPO and Nutrition
In relation to these needs., CONASUPO has viewed malnutrition as
fundamentally a socioeconomic one: "We do not see the problem of malnutrition
as a problem in itself. For us, malnutrition is a reflection of serious
problems in our development. It is the consequence of the inequalities of the
Mexican society. It is the expression of distortions that have been intro-
duced in our form of evolution" SPerhaps stemming from this focus,
CONASUPO's nutrition efforts have been toward increasing the purchasing power
of marginal low income urban and rural families. As one CONASUPO official put
it, "we have to solve the quantity problem first before we can worry about
the quality".
Although CONASUPO has emphasized the quantity side, it has not
entirely neglected the quality dimension. It enriches the tortilla flour that
it produces and it is carrying out investigations on fortifying a hot sauce
and using Fish Protein Concentrate as a fortificant in a variety of products.
However, these efforts have been hindered by lack of technical expertise,
resource limitations, and interinstitutional relationships. Concerning the
latter, CONASUPO has been somewhat hesitant to move agressively forward in the
nutrition area because this is presumably the realm of the National Nutrition
Institute. The Institute undoubtedly has the requisite nutritional technical
expertise but CONASUPO has the operational delivery system skills. An
inter-institutional partnership seems most desirable.
The PIDER rural development program presents a meaningful oppor-
tunity for such a collaborative effort. One of the major problems that has
plagued efforts around the world to market successfully new high protein
foods such as INCAPARINA has been defective channels of distribution which
do not allow the product to reach the poor, rural, remote target groups
most in need of the product. CONASUPO's rural stores system provides a rela-
tively efficient delivery system with relatively broad coverage of the rural
sector. Probably the only other delivery system which is as successful in
penetrating and supplying regularly the remote Mexican ejidos is that of
2/ CONASUPO, "Hacia un Programa Nacional de Subsistencias" 1973, Mexico



ANNEX 3k
Page   3
Coca Cola. The channels are there, what is needed are the right products.
It is not clear by what criteria CONASUPO has developed the product line
it offers in the rural stores, but it is doubtful that a nutritionist
helped them select the product mix or explained to them the nutritional
significance of their product mix. A useful exercise would be to convert
the products offered to a cost per nutrient basis and to relate the pro-
ducts sold to the dietary patterns of the campesinos to determine possible
prodact-consumer misfits. The risk exists that the managerial personnel of
CONASUPO may be uninowingly imposing middle class food values on the cam-
pesinos. By offering products normally consumed by the middle class,
CONASUPO may be leading the campesino to "trade-up't from traditional to more
modern foods with a possible new loss in terma of a nutrients per peso basis.
This situation may not exist but the possibility is present. Because the
stores offer lower prices, purchasing power increases and food quantity in-
take can increase. But the food quantity and quality division is a false
dichotomy. Both variables should be considered in designing the rural stores
product line. The store's drawing power also puts it in a leverage position
to influence the campesino1s purchasing habits, and, therefore, it is in a
favorable position to shift purchases and consumption to new and more nutri-
tious foods.
CON1ASUPO's physical delivery system is supplemented by SAG home
economics staff who carry out a nutrition education function that deals with
the traditional food anid health beliefs. In addition, the health personnel
in the clinics may reinforce this educational effort as well as deal with
the sieknpss/disease problems. Ths , t1he village could simultaneously
aEttack the morbidity and malnutrition factorp. F     y  the clinics and the
CoRmunity Committees would facilitate the incorporation of a family planning
component to the services, thereby tying in with the government's new major
push in family planring. In effect, the coammnity would be receiving an
integrated he4th, nutritimn  aid fa4Ly f   pla;i  package. The potentials
for favorable yegism are great.



ANNEX 3 1
Page   1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR INDIGENOUS AFFAIRS (INI)
Introduction
The National Institute for Indigenous Affairs (Instituto
Nacional Indigenista, INI) is a decentralized government agency. It was formed
in 19h8 to unify, coordinate and centralize the work of various government
agencies dealing with the protection and advancement of the indigenous popu-
lation of Mexico j  The indigenous population of Mexico in 1970 was estimated
at about 5 million people. Most of them live in rural areas, isolated back-
ward and poor. Since the rural poor are the target group of the PIDER program,
eventually most of the indigenous population will be among the beneficiaries
of PIDER. A large nuclei of indigenous people are present in Zacapoaxtla,
Puebla and Sur de Yucatan, two of the six micro regions appraised in June 197h.
Among other micro regions, the following also have large indigenous populations:
Helcechan, Campeche, Ometepec,.Guerreo Valles, San Luis Potosi and Valles de
Oaxaca.
Budgets and Growth
In the past, INI has lived under the ambivalent neglect of the
government: it was necessary to do something for the indigenous population but
no real cammitment had been made. This is evident in that the budget of I.N.I1
was kept, virtually constant at M$ 20 - 24 million (US$ 2 million) between
1962 and 1970.
Recently, INI's budget rose to M$ 31 million (US$ 2.5 million)
in 1971, M$h413 million (US$ 3.3 million) in 1972, M$ 87.1 million
(US$ 7.0 million) in 1973 and M$ 108.4 million (US$ 8.7 million) in 1974. The
field operations of INI expanded pari-passu as the number of "Coordinating
Centers" rose from 12 in 1970 to 52 in 197h. The basic operating unit of INI
is the Coordinating Center: it is located in an indigenous area, staffed by
5 - 6 professionals and a varying number of sub-professional technicians, the
bilingual promoters. The Center's role is to help the local inhabitants to
develop culturally and economically. Since the resources available to the
Centers are small (M$ 2 million) INI gets the cooperation of other Dependencias
in the building of works or in other activities. In fact, INI operates like
a mini-PIDER seeking the development of the areas under its responsibility
through an integrated program (which is often curtailed due to lack of re-
sources).
.3/ It should be noted that the term "indigenallis a cultural, not ethnic con-
cept. A person is "indigenous" if he speaks one or more of the pre-
hispanic local languages, lives in an area where many people have that
characteristic and has adopted neither the livestyle nor the values of
the modern (or modernizing) elements of Mexico.



ANNE 3 1
Page   2
PIDER and INI
Various activities of INI are supported by PIDER, such as
livestock improvement centers, beekeeping units, the raising of pigs, the
construction of schools and health clinics and materials used for the im-
provement of dwellings. Nurseries for fruit trees and centers for the pro-
duction of queen bees have also been financed. In Yucatan, where self-help
traditions are strong, community participation (labour and local materials)
in INI directed works are large. In late 1974 there are 7 micro regions in
which PIDER funds are channeUed through INI _/ Authorizations for 1974 in
these 7 micro regions totalled US$ 600,000. Since PIDER's goals are over-
whelmingly economic, virtually all PIDER investments through INI are directly
productive; socio-cultural activities are carried out through INIt's ordinary
or normal program.
g/ The micro regions are the following: Sur de Yucatan, Zacapoaxtla Pue,
Mixteca Alta, Chetuml-Carrillo Puerto, Amealco Qro., Ometepec Gro,
Tenango de Doria Hgo.



,_WCO  URAL  UE-JPM&N7- P51ECC:                             ANNEX 31
SrATISTIC.4  PROFILE OF I,;I 1570-74)                        Table  1
Jr- t          1970-71      1971-72     1972-73      1973-74
A. General
1. Budget, total (1969-70 = 24t0)                         M$ Million           31.0        41.4         87.1        108.!
2. Coordinatng Center in operation)                      No.                    12          24           40           52
3.  Indigenous population assistei                         '200               648.9     1,616.6      2,025.3     2,193.0
4. Pcp. assisted as % of total indigenouas pop.            X                    13%          32%         40%          43%
5.  Managerial and technical staff                        No.                   156         225          39-         444
6. Support staff (and middle-level technicians)           No.                   327         560           3o       1 ,o6O
B. Education
1.  Teaching personnel, total                              '000                 3-8         4.0          5.7         6.2
2.  Bilingual tsacners                                    '                   1.7         1.6          1.8         2.7
3.  Bilingual cultural promoters                           '000                 1.9         2.2          3.7         3.4
4. No. of schools serviced                                '000             1,601.0      1,827.0      1,966.0     2,221.0
5.  -o. of boarding schools                               '000                 2.0         25.0       lo6.o        240.0
6. Grade school scholarsnips (483/day/child)              No.                  100        1,250        5,064      12,851
7. Secondary (tech., voc.) school scholarships l/         Ms '000             -            -        3,000.0      6,000.0
8. University scholarships  2/                            M  '000             -            -             252       480.0
9. Students attended                                      '000               125.9        134.9        160.1       211.6
10. Classrooms built  3/                                   No.                  111          204          093         504
11. Rouses for teachers built  4/                          No.                    12          20          129         111
12.  School workshops built                                No.                  -           -              18          31
C. health and Sanitation
1. Doctors and pasantes                                   No.                    32          43           74          57
2.  Auxiliary health workers                              No.                    73          80          156         216
3.  Clinics in operation                                  No.                    11          25           33          31
4.  -ealth posts in operation                             No.                    41          56          109         148
5.  Jo. of vaccinations                                   '000                95.8         93.7       138.2        240.5
D. Agriculture
1 . Agronomists                                           No.                 -              38           59          74
2. :;urseries, experimental plots, etc.                   Iio.                 652          167          800       1,082
3.  School, family and communal gardens                   No.                 -            -           2,735       2,1o8
4. Seedlings, saplings and plants distributed  5/         '000                24.0         38.3         47.6       107.
5.  rons of fertilizers distributed                        Tons                 5.0        -           583.0     1,197.0
o.  Soil conservation works                               Ha                 1,223        1,039        4,122       2,328
7.  Irrigation works                                      No                      8        -              11          35
E. Livestock
1.  Veterinarians                                          No                    10          25           27          39
2.  Auxiliaries (Vet.)                                     No                    27          39           68         124
3.  Animals distributed                                    '000               10.3         12.2         20.4        03.1
0.  Animals treated                                        '000                7.7         19.9         39.2        25.-
5. Livestock groups assisted                              No                    87          144         162          243
F. Economics and Marketing
1.  Economists                                            No.                   11           23           28          38
2. Auxiliaries (econ.)                                    No.                   11           23          26           60
3.  Maize sales                                           Tons                 2.0          6.5        18.2        .34.0
4. Bean sales                                              Tons               -            -           -           273.0
5.  CONASJPO-INI rural stores                             Nlo.                  40           33          70          272
6. Sales in rural stores                                  M$ '000            857.0      1,900.0     3,047.0    12,500.0
7. Purchase of handicrafts  6/                            MS '000            100.0      2,464.0     1,742.0      1,600.0
8. Workshops and small industries                         No.                    7            8          10          103
9.  Bank credits negotiated on behalf of Indians          MS '000          1,726.0      5,268.0     2,159.0      8,759.0
G. Roads and Constructions
1. Engineers                                              No.                    2            2           3            L
2. Auxiliaries (eng.)                                     No.                    1            1           6            9
3.  trucks, tractors, etc.                                No.                    8           12          27           39
4.  INI-self help roads built                             Km.                   80           52         183          207
5.  Villages electrified                                  No.                 -             10           22           11
H. Legal Affairs
1. No. of lawyers                                         No.                    7            8          21           16
2. Auxiliaries (legal)                                    No.                    1            1          12           11
3.  Cases handled  7/                                     No.                  854         952        2,311       2,330
1/  Scholarships of M$300/month, a CONAE-INTI joint program; 1,000 students in 1972, 2,000 in 1973.
2/ Bank of Mexico-IhN joint program; 42 fellowships in 1972, 80 in 1973.
3   CAPFCE-INI-Self-Help joint program.
INI-Self-Help.
5/ Excluding coffee plants.
3/  These handicrafts are purchased by INI from the Indians and marketed in Mexico City or abroad (sometimes on consignment).
H Handling of agrarian, penal, civil or administrative legal matters on behalf of individual Indians or connunities.
December 12, 1974



ANNEX 3m
Page
MEXICO
Rural Development Project
CONAFRUT
(Commission for Fruit Development)
A. Background
1.        CONAFRUT (commission for fruit development) was established in
1961 as an advisory body to SAG and the Presidency. However, until 1970
fruit tree production did not receive high priority. Colleges and agricul-
tural schools did not have any special studies in fruit tree planting and,
production.
2.        On February 4, 1971 CONAFRUT was established as an autonomous
agency under SAG with a separate budget. CONAFRUT planned a 6-year invest-
ment of M$232 million (US$18.6m).  CONAFRUT since 1971 has established (1)
a policy for fruit tree planting, production and productivity and (2) six
programs for executing this policy.
B. CONAFRUT Policy
CONAFRUJT is currently concerned with research, direct extension
support to fruit tree development and support for marketing for both domestic
consumption, as well as exports. The overall policy has the following
objectives:
(a) To increase the rate of public and private investments
in the same proportion as the increase of domestic and
foreign demand;
(b) To stimulate exports by improving quality standards and
raising productivity levels;
(c) To promote fruit tree plantations in appropriate ecological
regions with comparative economic advantages;
(d) To supply the technical information and inputs needed to
develop production in each ecological region. Each ecological
region-should have a Regional Development Center to provide
the necessary support for developing new fruit tree varieties
to meet domestic and foreign demand;
(e) To decentralize fruit tree processing industries; and



ANNEX 3m
Page 2
(f) To study the possible repayment problems of Federal,
State and private investments in fruit production.
The cormission stated as a policy the "continuity" of these
proposals, since a major problem of agricultural plans in the past has been
to leave them incomplete or half-way finished with a large loss of public
resources. Though these policies have not been fully achieved in the past
three years considerable progress has been achieved.
C. Programs
Consistent with CONAFRUT policies, six programs were established
in order to implement the above major policies. The programs, each under
a department, are:
I.   Fruit Tree Development
The program goals are to provide technical education and
training to young professionals, technicians and peasants.
In this regard, the department has built libraries, labora-
tories, and schools, where training and technical assistance
is given to producers.  To complement such activity, a special
sub-program was launched to give priority to the most important
tropical fruit tree production areas of Mexico and to improve
production quality. Accordingly, 16 Regional Improvement
Centers were established to provide fruit tree saplings and
technical assistance. These centers cover most of the majority
of the ecological zones identified by COTNAFRUT.
The task of giving technical support to present fruit tree
plantations is large.  There are in Mexico 511,000 hectares of
plantations which represent only 3.3% of the total land in
agriculture. Not all of these plantations are market-oriented,
therefore the total area with fruit tree plantations is only the
equivalent of a rough estimate of all the present fruit trees.
There are 56,o00 hectares of fruit on irrigated land which represent
only 0.39% of the total irrigated surface in Mexico. The fruit
tree saplings produced by CONAFRUT in 1972 were enough to plant
4,500 ha, 8% of the total irrigated fruit tree plantations or 0.8%
of the total estimated area of the fruit tree plantations in the
country. This production of fruit tree saplings is not enough to
initiate new plantations and replace old ones. The rest of the
fruit tree saplings provided to plantations are supplied by private
nurseries. Only a few of these nurseries are under CONAFRUT
supervision.
The largest task of this program is to assess present inventories
of plantations and potentialities of each region. At present, there



ANNEX 3m
Page  3
is no complete national inventory of all the existing plantations
and there is only one study on fruit and vegetables marketing
done by CONASUPO.
II.   Fruit Processing Industries
The main goal of this program is to promote additional
fruit processing industries in rural areas, giving technical
assistance and quality specifications. Several research
programs are at present under way, in close collaboration with
local industries, to make good use of local production, by-products,
and improving the existing industrial process.
III.   Fruit Market Studies
The program's main concern is market surveys to inform
producers. The department in charge promotes producer organi-
zations for better market channels, storage, marketing costs
and margins. The program also carries out market forecasts to
supply information for fruit investments, both by CONAFRUT and
private producers. To date, this program has had only limited
success due to the size of the market, budget constraints and
lack of specialized professionals in the regions.
IV.   Communications
This department is in charge of CONAFRUT publications and
technical support to professionals working in the region centers
and producers. A considerable number of booklets with technical
information have been produced and made available free to pro-
ducers.
V.  Department of Economic Research
The department's main concern is the economic analysis of
fruit production, emphasizing production costs and productivity.
This department, though not considered as a program, has made a
complete survey of unit production costs, profits and investments
throughout Mexico.  The survey is based on case studies and suggests
the considerable economic advantages of fruit enterprises relative
to crops, though with large investments. (See attachments).
IV.   Community Development
This program was created exclusively for backward regions with
large populations, scarce natural resources and low production levels.
The program up to 1972 had not accomplished its purposes because of



ANNEX 3m
Page 4
several factors, among which are:
(a) Backward regions do not have the natural or capital
resources to start a high investment with an appropriate
technological level, and the commission did not have
enough resources to start the investments;
(b) The attitude developed by farmers after the failure of
previous fruit tree programs; and
(c) The lack of professionals to solve the technical
problems.
A complete coordinated plan to promote fruit tree plantations
was needed, including techinal assistance, physical input supplies,
and plantation investments. With the establishment of PIDER,
this program obtained resources to launch several integrated plans
and fruit tree plantations in the poorest rural regions of Mexico.
D. CONAFRUT and PIDER
The PIDER component of CONATRUT's program was placed under the
responsibility of the Community Development Department. This department
established a program for 11 micro-regions in 1973 and 3 additional in 1974.
Total expenditures were M$6,519,307 (US$0.5m) in 1973, virtually all the
authorized budget. As originally planned, the program in 1973 was to affect
about 266 ha. However, according to CONAFRUT the program had a direct benefit
on 813 ha (see attachment).
To May, 1974 the expenditures were about 80% of the authorized
budget. The development of the CONAFRUT program between these two years
is shown below. The 1973 investments' emphasis was in orchard preparation
and plantations (55% of the budget). The integrated program of fruit tree
development in a few micro-regions conmprising nurseries, orchard preparation
and plantations, technical assistance and pest control, was only 37%.
CONAFRUT and PIDER
Fruit Production Development  1  micro-regions)
Program Investments (1973 and 1974)
(M$'000 )
1 973     1973       1974           1974
Authorised EDpended Authorised Expended to May
1. Integrated Fruit Tree Production
Development 1/                        2,386        -        5,974          -
2. Orchard Preparation                    3,662        -        4,229          -
3. Research                                 200         -         151          -
4. Technical Assistance                     156        -          202          -
5.  Orchard Demonstrations                  131         -           -          -
6. Fruit Tree Nurseries                       -         -         451          -
TOTAL                     6,535     6,519     11,007        8,895
Includes: Technical assistance, orchard preparation and plantations, technical
training, fruit tree nurseries and pest control.



ANNEX 3m
Page 5
In 1974, 54% of the budget was planned for integrated programs
and only 38% for orchard preparation and plantations.
In 1974, PIDER allocations to CONAFRUT received a substantial
increase, virtually doubling the authorised expenditures and accoumting for
more than 19% of the total budget of CONAFRUT. However, the total employees
in charge of the PIDER program are only 9% of the total staff of CONAFRUT.
CONAFRUT and PIDER estimates are that the staff in charge of the PIDER
program should increase from 58 to 113 persons, while CONAFRUT permanent
employees may increase only 10%. If CONAFRUT trains and places new professionals
in the selected 14 micro-regions in 1974, the main technical constraints may
be overcome. Hence there would be an average of 8 professionals in each micro-
region if CONAFRUT is able to train and place the new professionals within the
14 micro-regions selected for joint development in 1974. The new permanent
professionals should be enough to meet the micro-region needs for planning fruit
development, giving technical assistance and building the necessary fruit
tree nurseries.
The Fruit Tree Regional Improvement Centers may provide a strong
technical support to the micro-region of the PIDER program. But since these
centers have been located mainly where there are large potentialities for
fruit production, not all the micro-regions selected by the PIDER program
will benefit with the Regional Improvement Center support. In 1973, only
the micro-regions in the states of Guanajuato, Nuevo Leon, Puebla, and Hidalgo
could rely on the technical support from a center located in a micro-region.
The new micro-regions selected by PIDER in 1974 could rely on the micro-
regicn centers of the states Chihuahua, Boja, California, Coahuila and Mexico.



ANNEX 3n
P. 1-
MEXTCO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LTVESTOCK SUB SECTOR aN) THE PTDEP PROGRtM
Introduction
1.    Of the approximate total land cover of Mexico (2 million sq. km),
about 47% (79 million ha) suDports the national livestock industry under
a wide range of climatic and geogranhic conditions.  The industry, nartinulnrly
beef nroduction, is undertaken nredominantly on native grasslands. althoiigh
improved nnstures and intensive fodder oroduction are assuming greater
imnortance in view of overstocking in semi-arid and arid areas, the uneven
geographic distri.hution pattern of livestock for optimal performance and
changing marketing patterns in both the domesti;  consumption and export
markets.  Table T following provides - qum:arQy of basin 1.ivestock data in
Mexico.
Basic Livestock Data (1972)
Number            Slaughter          Proru7tlon
(No)             --m tons--
Cattle
Beef                  21,000,000         3,100,000            50,00O
Dairy                  3,000,000            n.a.            3,?300,00   (milk)
Oxen (for work         1,000,000            n.a.
powa)
Sbeen                    5400,000          1, 100,000            56,noo
Goats
Meat                     n.a.              991,000              n.a.
Milk                     --                   --              1.90,000  (milk)
Pis                     10,305,000             n.a.             97n,oo0
Poultry                V4 3.000,000            r,a. 
Meat                     --                   --              123,000
Rggs                     --                   --              !n,R
Sources:  F.A.0.. Ministry Secretariat of Agriculture  and Liveqtock
2.    ,ivestock production has alwavs been an important part of the socia.l and
economic pattern of small farmers.  Ejidos and smallhol.ders have a significant
portion of !Iexicofs livestock (     %), but oroduce only a small amount from
them.  For example. DAAC undertook a livestock survey-in the North east of
CGuanajuato in 1973. The 13 ejidos that reported livestock produicts provi.ded
the following outnut:
Meat              No. of Ejidos          Qla,ntitv
Milk                  13                 11.1B8 lters
Meat                  13                   3,b)fO kg
Hides                 10                     169
Wool                   3                     255 kg
Cheese                 8                  3,32n kg



4NWNF( 3n
7. 2
Sinne no wepner sales am, renorted. thle data understates the importance of
beef cattle.  Cattle are kept mainly for noFer. w7th milk beef and caLf
sales residual nroducts.  Pigs are often kent as a store of sav ngs, slaughtered
or sold ror ceremonial (weddings) or when an emergency occurs requiruing
immediate cash.  Chickens are kent for their infrequent eggs and as a source
of meat protein.  Sheen and goats, esnecially the latter. are kept in the
drier parts of Mexico. both as a sonrce of milk snd occassional meat.
Beekeepning is a somrce of cash throrughout Mexico, esnecially in the Yucatan
peninsulla.  Most of Mexico's exported honey is generated by ejidos.
3.   (Cattle production is predominant, although sheep and goats are
Imnortant in the Northern areas.  Ejido grazing areas are generally over-
stocked of adjoining the croplands of farmers, due mainly to fragmented
landholdings of these farmers and the build up of herds and flocks of
animals on a nrimitive uncontrolled basis.  Overgrazing prevalent in some
of these areas, particularly in the norther rangelands has led to scarce
-eduction o-f desirable grass speci es, erosion and generrally iunproductive
livestock nroductivity. PIDER is making a strong effort to improve pro-
duction on existing livestock holdings and to introduce livestock systems
(cattle and pigs) on ejido holdings currently based solely on crops (Yucatan).
4.    Under the PIDER project, the following livestock investment packages
are being supported in the micro-regions.
(a)  Cattle                                   Tvoe of investments
Silage Pits (Hornos Forraje)
Semi-arid (750 mm rainfall)             Water Conservation
Fencing
Pasture Improvement
Cattle Puirchase
Semi-tropical (1200 mm rainfall)
Cattle Purchase
Land clearing
Fencing
Iandling Yards and Dins
Pn sture eatablishment
Semi-arid (Irrigated)                   Dairy cattle purchase
4lfa2fa establishment
itAlk-shed and equinment purchase
Temnerate                               Artificial insemenation
Units (EPnansion in dairvring areas)
(b) Goats
Arid and Semi arid Regions               Goat milk production, collection and
processing centers
(c) Beekeeping
(all regions)                           Exnansion of single Beekeening units
(d)  Liz                                     Pork Production Units established where
local (mainly soybeen based) feed
resources are available and local market
for ejido nroduced nork exists.



ANN7EX 3n
p. 3
Livestock Production Areas
5.    Mexican livestock production occurs in two broad climate divisions:
(a)  60% in the arid and semi-arid north referred to as the northern
rangelands which are generally overstocked; and
(b)  40% in the wet and dry tronics including both Gulf and Pacifir
coastal areas, genera lJiv understocked.
Beef Production Areas - The Northern Rangelands production patterns are
oriented towiards the US fe-der cattle market (weaner calf 6-9 months of qge?
for which until late 1974 there was rising demand. Breeds such as Hereford,
Angus, Brehmen, Charolais and their crosses nredominate in the majority of
well managed herds, although the Criolla or native breed mainly oTwned by
smaller cattlement, ejido, communes and colonies have been able to gain
access to this market. Except when under drought stress, only male weaners
are exported since the export of females is prohibited. Some cattle in the
northern areas are fattened in feed lots and on irrigated pastures for
specialized higher priced markets. Weaning percentages range from 3%< under
low level management such as ejidos and small livestock owners in overstocked
areas to as high as 90% in well managed pastures under good management.  The
area is presently carrying about seven animal units/ha, with as high as 1 a.u./ba
in smallholder areas. This has led to a severe denletion of grassland resources
and erosion through overstocking. If managed efficiently under these conditions
with deferred grazing, the desirable carrying capacity is in the region of
20-30 ha/animal unit. Pasture deterioration has increased rapidly over the
past five years. Major steps will need to be taken in the near future to
alleviate the over-grazing and to preserve the grassland resources for
future generations.
Recent attempts to improve rainfed native pastures by introduction
of buffel grass and other adopted species have been successful, in Sonora
state. These techniques offer good opportunities on a well designed and
programmed basis to remedy the presently drastic situation.
6.   The tropics produce beef nrimarily for domestic consumption.  The nmost
important domestic production area is the Huasteca. Under the government
deforestation program presently underway, increasing areas of tropical and
coastal grazing areas are being cleared and planted with palatable improved
grasses, such as Panicum Maximum (Guinea Grass), nara, and pangola.  Although
a variety of native legumes nersist in these areas, tropical legumes. *s nart
of a oastoral mix with fertilizer applications, have not been significantly
developed. More research and demonstration are required before larger scale
imnact on optimum tropical pasture production can be achie-ed.
7.    Dairy Production Areas.  Mexico is a net importer of dairy products.
Approximately 2.5 million dair-y cows are concentrated in the irrigated distriets
of the central plateau and the northerr rangelands, with a nredominance of Holstein
and their crosses.  About 40% of Mexico City's millk requirement originates
within the city boundaries, generally derived from irrigated and greenfed
alfalfa under confined conditions.  In the tropical areas of Mexico, milk and
milk products are by-products of the beef cattle industry and orovide livestock
owners with a supplementary income.  For small scale nroducers, this is of great
importance as it tends to provide a daily cash flow whereas their beef off take
is seasonal.  Traditionallv, dairying has been concentrated principally in
the irrigated districts of the Central ?lateau of which the Bajio area has bsen



AN~NEX 3n
eo.4
the main producer for Mexico City.  This type of production has also spread
in recent years to the irrigated areas of the north and northwest, particularly
around Torreon. Milk from these areas is competing in price with the more
traditional areas and has captured about 20% of the Federal Capital market.
Good prospects exist for increased dairy production in most areas of the
country to service local urban and rural markets.  Early attention should
be given by government to developing dairy production to meet increasing
local demard based on low cost production techniques such as grazing
improved pasture under tropical and semi-arid irrigated and rainfed
conditions.
8.    Pig Production Areas.  Traditionally, commercial pig production has
been concentrated in the western edge of the Bajio. Tn recent years,
however, pig production has spread to the irrigated areas of the northwest
states as a result of increased availability of low cost feed grain.
Additionally, pig production on ejido farms is increasing in the Yucatan.
Recent efforts by Japan to import significant quantities of farm products
especially pork from Mexico has encouraged irnreased nig production.
However, government agencies are monitoring production increases carefully
in view of the danger of over supply, price reduction and unsure markets,
all of which historically are prevalent factors of the industry.
9.    Pig production methods are predominantly (90%) combined breeding and
fattening, with off takes of about 30% per annum. This can be improved con-
siderable mainly through better management practices, increased weaning rates
and nutrition. About 85% of pigs slaughtered in the Federal District are
produced in Guanajuato, Jalisco and Michoacan states, with northwestern
states production increasing yearly. The remainder of Mexico's pig production
(15%) is largely family and ejido type production of low management standards
and mainly consumed locally in these areas of oroduction.
10.   Sheen and Goat Production Areas.  Sheep production occurs mainly in the
northern rangeland areas, conducted by some large and small livestock owners
as complementary functions of beef cattle operations. Rambouillet types are
predominant with fleece yields of about 1-3 kgs per head ner annum. Carcasses
are consumed mostly locally and provide another source of regular cash flow
to smallholders. A few Corridales have been imported over the years, but
generally the sheep and wool industry has not developed sufficiently to provide
Mexico with self-sufficiency in sheep and wool products. Scope exists for
expansion on a limited and orderly basis, particularly with respect to:
(a) foreign exchange expenditure conservation on imports; and
(b) the browsing habits of sheep in semi-arid and arid areas.
Goat production is insignificant other than for sources of meat and milk for
localized domestic consumption.
l1.   Mexico presently imports about US$10 million, equivalent in wool and
wool products. Demand for mutton and goat meat is expected to double in
the next few years.



-KT -
19.   Goat production has been traditionally a small-holder subsistence
animal resource young goat meat's ponularitv in rural con3uming areas as well
as milk for localized consumption is increasing and prices are rising as a
conseouence.
13.   Poulti7T Production Areas.  MrLost commercial production of broilers takes
nl.ace in the central plateau near Mex-co City, in the Federal District, as
near the western i.rrigated areas.  The princinal egg producing areas are
l.ocated in the northwest, north central and northeast irrigated zones and in
the central plateau, with increasing adoption in all production areas of large
scale modern technology. Daily egg production is estimated at about 18 million
of which about a third is consumed in the Federal District.  About 200,000
broilers are slaughtered daily of which the Federal. District absorbs 60o.
1)4.   The Secretariat of Agriculture is divided into three sub-secretariats,
viz. the sub-secretariats of agriculture, livestock and forestry, all of
which ln one form or another are involved with the PTDER program.
(a) Livestock Sub-Secretary (PIDER. Tnvolvement)
This sub-secretariat is d1vided int-Jo Q department, six of which
are directly coneerned with the PTIDR program. These are:
Denartment                    Tnitials                  Function
1.   Animal Health                                       Veterinary Control m.nd Services
2.  Tick Control                                         National Control programs,
dipping and some extension
3.   Forage Conservation        BRONAFOR                 Extension of low0 cost corn
silage pits.
14.   Poultry, Bees and Rabbits   -                       Extension of methodolo-v
5.   Research                   INIP                     Pasture and livestock research
6.   Artificial Tnsemination  TNIARA                     brtension and A.T. services
The other three not directly related to PIDER are:
7.   Livestock production          -                     SAG sponsored livestock
8.   Milk nroduction            TNL TLs above
9.   Sheen and wool             TNC                      "
10.  Screw worm control                                  National eradication of screw
worm fly
15.   The Animal Health Deoartment has four on-going programs -- a national
service of diagnostic laboratories (ROIALDI), bruellosis cqntrol campaign,
bovine rabies control and tuberculosis control.
16.   The Tick Control Denartment has the resnonsibility for national tick
control, sunnorted in nart by USDA and as applied to PIDER, will operate
in micro-regions receiving sulpnort and with promotional, dinping and control
progranms.
17.   The Forage Conservation Denartment (BRONAFOR) has four programs underfay,
corn siThne and fodder conservation. range management, pasture seed multiplication
and livestock units (unidades ganaderos). The latter are livestock production
nits owned by ejiditarios in on-going elidos and are designed as cattle units
suitable ror roeeingvl  subsenuet credit.



ANNEX 3n
D. 6 
18.   Poultry, Bees and Rabbit Department is involved in oromoting production
and extension.  Due to market oversupply poultry production is not being
encouraged at present.
19.   Research (TNIP)  Two on-going programs are directly related to PIDFR
macro-regional development.  There are buffel seed production and pasture
research in Chihuaha state and the Sonora CIPES research unit.  Off the
two, the Sonora station (Cipes) is of most important, particularly in
the drier rangelands areas of the north.  It is realistic model -ith nroduction,
technologicl and sociological achievements and targets suitable for wide-
scale extension throughout the micro-regions of the northern rangelands.
20..  The Sonora Model.  This experiment station was created about four years
ago, Centro de Investigarciones Pecuarios del Estado de Sonora, A.C. (Cipes)
with the assistance of the Federal and State Governments through SAG and the
Regional Cattleman's Association of Sonora. The executive council is headed
by a senior technician of INIP (SAG) assisted by an economist from the State
Agricultural Department and senior officers of the Cattleman's Association.
The objectives were simply to devise a system of management suitable to
orovide the needs to stabilize efficiently and productively the livestock
and land resources of the semi-arid regions of Sonora and Durango.  To
achieve this an existing but progressive ejido was selected on which to
demonstrate this practical research program of which a lowl cost pasture
improvement and grazing control were key elements.
21.   Ten perennial grass species were introduced, viz:  Buffel (Centhrus
Ciliaris), Africano (Eragrostis lehmannia), Panizo Azul (Panicum antidotale),
Klein (panicum coloratum) and boer (Eragrostis curvola, var. contarts).  Of
these species, best results over a three year period have been obtained from
Buffel, Africano, and Panizo Azul in that order.  Buffel has been demonstrated
to be superior over all others from the Points of view of adaptation to the
climate conditions, production of good quality forage and fast economic re-
cuperation of the land. Accordingly this grass has been sown on both cleared
and uncleared land with good responses and economic results on both . However,
optimization in carrying capncity, unit rost of production of beef/ha and
management is better on cleared land.
22.   Co-related work has been carried out on low cost irrigated pasture as
an integrated function of day area grazing, directed at producing heavier
weaners and quicker maturity in retained replacement heifers for breeding.
By this integration it has been nossible to demonstrate:
(a)  bringing dry land with an existing carrying dapacibty of 35 ha/A.U.
up to 5 ha,A.U in a three year period.
(b)  on the 10O  ha of irrigated land sown with high quality pasture
grasses and legume, 1 ha/A.U.
(c)  a reduced herd for greater productivity and nrofitability by changing
the basic herd composition.
(d)  sirmDle low cost imnrovements such as fencing, corrals, etc. and
added income from grass seed sales.



ANNEX 3n
n. 7
This annears to be a desirable and renlicable model for wide-scale
adootion in the micro-regions. If accepted by ejidos. such a mode? wJil,l do
much to reduce the pressure on and improve the overgrP7,ed 1and resources of
the area, as well as greatly increase the income of low level livestock ow-ners.
23.  Artificial Tnsemnnation DenArtment (DNIARA)  SASG hns no hreeding or
processing facilities for A.T. work related tn the PTDER.  Tt does. homwever.
provide distribution and inseminating services in Aquascalientes, Jalisco,
and Jaksoo and Tabasco states.  As the program g-thers nace, it is expected
there will be greater call on semen sunolies and services and traerig.nv
particularly in those areas moving into dirv oroduction and intensive
livestock management on irrigated pastures.



RURLAL DtVEOlL8or?oj
COST ESTIATES AiD IhYFs-MET PMSiNG
NelMillions
ProjNect Yiears     _
Percent
of Cost            1              2              3                        Total
1.  Directly Produotior                                                                   620.9           49.4          364.4                    1.734.7
A.  lofrastrortoro,  Total                                                            382.7          392.2          166.0                      94009
LInosoock lotraatrrnto0e            -94 o                                                     113 .2           55 2                      262.4
i)   L bor                                                      20              11.8           22.6            11.0                       52.5
Ie)  Mhaoerols, Oqolpaenot and Other                            80              75.2           90.6            44.2                      209.9
Irriation                                                                      298.6           175.9          65.1                       439.6
i)   Lebo                                                       3059.6                          52.8           17.7                      130.1
ii)  b-atertaLa, Eqolpet nd Other                               70             139.0          123.i            47.4                      309.5
i)     Prods,t35                                                                29.3            31.6           11.4                       72.3
I)     t-ahnr"                                                                  10.8    Gh-10.7                 2.7                       25.
ii)  Manerioje, 14nipsent and Other                             65          l- 1.              20.9             7.7                       47.1
Soil aNd Wtier on-tr_.tion                                                     45.9            56.0           27                        129.6
1) Labor                                                        75              34.4           42.0            20.0                       97.2
142  7i terials, gqui7_eDt snd Other                            25              11.5            14.0            6.9                       32.4
Beekeeping5.9                                                                                    5.3            2.0                        13.2
1)  Labor                                                       24                 .8             .7             .3                        1.8
10) M-torinlo, Iqui7lDt  nd Other                               86               3.1            4.6             1.7                       11.4
ForestTyOt                                                                        1.1            9.6            4.6                       22.3
IL)     or-  .,Ei              -    t~35                                         3.0             3.2            1.57 7
iih M terials, Equipnent ad Otsert                              65                5.1           6.6            5.1                       14.6
PiL.oies                                                                        '4               0.6             -                         1.5
I)   Labor20                                                                     0.32.                                                      .
it)  ite T  lt1s,  8q1                                                           0 and GoRse  0.7  0.5                                     1.2
0.  CredIt, Total                                                              '      238.2          357.2           196.4                      793.S
Iltoolapatl Credit                                ~170.6                                       256.0          142.2                      560.8
i)   L.bor                                                      15            - 25.6            38.4           21.3                       85.3
ii)  Material                                                   35              59.7            89.6           49.0                      199.1
itii  Cattle                                                    50              82.3           128.0           71.1                      284.4
Ieorental P7nduction C-edit                                                     67.6           101.2           56.2                      225.0
1)   labor                                                      t0               13.6           20.2           11.2                       45.0
ii)  Oth-n                                                      s               54.0            81.0           45.0                      100.0
11.  Onodon<:tln Saneort. Total                                                            268.2           238.2           09.095.4
Fe.det Foads                                                                    79.2            633            19.6                      162.1
I)   labor  .                                  ~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~          ~~70  55.4  44.3  3.        113.4
i)  M eterils, lF4  pee-t a-d Other                             30              23.8            19.0            5.9                       48.7
Lssetreh and extension                                                          76.9            76.7           37.1                     18.7
15   Stafft'                                                    75              56.2            57.5           27.8                      141.5
Mi)  Eqoip-not and Vthitlen                                     25              19.7            19.2            9.3                       67.2
Flta-r Orgttsaiao                                                                31.0           30.A           14.8                        75.9
I)   StoOf                                                      so              26.0           24.1            11.8                       60.7
ii)  Eqoip-ate  d  OebVhinele                                   20               6.2             6.0            3.0                       15.2
Mteib:ting                                                                       10.4            5.7             .9                        17.0
12   La  bor                                                    10                1.0             .6             .1                         1.7
ii)  M trertals, Equiy.snt and other                            90               9.4             5.1             .8                       15.3
!toettrifiaio                                                                   72.7            62.4           16.6                      151.7
13 Labor                                                        21              13.3            13.1            3.5                       31.9
il)  tlaten i , Eqiptet so Other                                79              57.4            69.3           13.1                      119.8
Tll.  SotOal IO ftsot-rs . ntal                                                              125.5          125.7           61.2                       312.4
teelth                                                                           10.7           26.1           14.0                       40.0
1)   Labor                                                      30                3.2            6.0            4.2                       12.2
i1)  Mso  tal-, tzoipaFDt and Other                             70               7.5            11.3            9.8                       20.6
Ed-steon                                                                        28.2            30.0           14.5                       72.7
i)  7Lbor                                                       27               7.6             8.1            4.0                       19.7
101  MaterIals, tqup5nt sod Othbr  -                            73              20.6           21.9            10.5                       53.0
DieOeiesg 87-8r                                                                 64              64.5           27.5                      156.8
17 Labo                                                         40              25.9           245.8           11.8                       42.7
li)  Nat-eWals, Eqaip-.et and Otber                             40              38.9           30.7            16.5                       94.1
tttraaOeSnIf-Oelp                                                        21.9           10.1            5.2       -47.1
1)   Mal-7tenioal.S       .                                    IO0              21.0            15. 1           5.2                       42.1
7Y.  telatis
Enintee -nnitnl   sod TraIinig                                             3.0            3.0             3.0                         .
il   Staff                                                      so               2.4             264            2.4                        7 2
Ii)  Other                                                      70                .6             .6              .6                        LA8
V. To-al B-a flee Cost                                                                   t,017.6         1,116.3          517.6                    2,651.5
i)   Laor528.6                                                                                371.4           257.6                      987.6
it)   t           Atatlaln. Oqatpasot and Other                                659.0          744.9           260.0                    1,663.9
VI.  Contloneoclee. Total                                                                  260.1          478.4           284.5                    1.031.0
A.  Physttal  Contingoor                                                               80.4           78.1            52.0                      190.5
17   labor                                                                      33.1           32.4            13.0                       79.3
i     t) Othr                                                                   47.3           45.7            10.2                      111.2
D.  EP-ted Ptta Ileatas                                                               107.7          400.3          252.5                      806.5
L)   Labor%                                                                    (16.8)         131.1)         (46.7)
i a)oon 7. bor 7syuft67.7                                                         134.9           80.0                      282.6
it)  Otheer                                                                    (10.4g         (36 7)          (52.9)
Aaast                                                             116.8          247.0           15 3.7                     517.1
iii) Cattt% 13.8)                                                                             (14.4)          (26.4)
adant                                             ~~~~          ~~~~      ~    ~~~~           ~           ~~~~~3.2  10.4  10.  40.4
Cred Total                                                                   1,285.7        1,594.7           802.5                    3,682.6
Assonotloos for ees-Irel and 2reOe tontinoenntee,
ii  etyicral - 101.noetoet ore dot
_/ topatted Pnioe Inoaaseni:
1975   1976   1977   1970
a.  Labor        15%    132    107.   10?
b.  Othtr        172    157.    11i    11,
cattle.       52    12T    107.   137
- Project  Yenta:  April I -   -aroh 31.



ANNEX 5
EICO
RURAL DEVEWOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US $ '000)
Bank Fiscal Year                      Cumulative          Balance of
and Quarter                        Amount Disbursed          Loan
March 31, 1975                            0             110,000
June 30, 1975                         7,500             102,500
1976
September 30, 1975                   16,900              93,100
December 31, 1975                    27,200              82,800
March 31, 1976                       38,000              72,000
June 30, 1976                        49,200              60,800
1977
September 30, 1976                   60,800              49,200
December 31, 1976                    72,800              37,200
March 31, 1977                       83,000              27,000
June 30, 1977                        89,900              20,100
1978
September 30, 1977                   96,200              13,800
December 31, 1977                   102,000               8,000
March 31, 1978                      106,500               3,500
June 30, 1978                       110,000                   0



Page
MEXICO
RUrAI DEVELOPM1NT PROJECT
Organization, Planning and Management of the PIDER Program
1.        The Government has taken major steps in the past two years
to improve and coordinate institutions involved in meeting the objectives
of the PIDa3 program.  One of these objectives is to coordinate
development activities among participating agenciesl/ and at the same
time to focus them on targeted micro-regions. Another objective is
to encourage participation of target farmers and their communities
in development planning and project execution at the village level.
Recognizing that its existing organization was inadequate to administer
a multi-agency program like PIDER and that its administrative structure
and budgeting procedure were over-centralized, the Government revamped
its organization framework to plan and execute the PIDER Program.
2.        Principal responsibility for the PIDYR program is vested in
the Ministry of the Presidency (Presidencia). The Presidency has f-nal
authority on the investment budgets of all government agencies.  Public
agencies working in the rural sector had frequently been unable to
closely coordirate their activities. In 3)969, ho-wever, the Presidency
started coordinating the activities of these agencies on a pilot basis,
so that today their activities in the selected micro-regions are now
beginning to be synchronized within the PIDER framework. This task
was simplified with the earlier creation of special rural development
departments w thin many of the governmental investment agencies
(SOP, CFE, 4UNDO, SRH, CONASUPO and others).  In late 1974 some 2,700
agency professionals were engaged in carrying out the PIDER investment
program.
3.        The PIDER program is organized at three levels:
A ederal Level.  The highest policy-making body of PIDER
is a Coordinating Committee of senior officials from participating
agencies headed by the Presidency's Director of Public ITnvestment
(see Chart 2). The committee meets monthly to review policy, approve
micro-region programs and discuss inter-agency coordination prcblems
1/  Federal institutions participating at the federal and state levels
include: the Ministries of Agriculture (SAG), F`nance, Public Works
(SOP), Tater Resources (SRH), and Health and  Assistance (S3);
Department of Agrarian Affairs and Colonization (DAAC), Federal
Electric ComLmission (CE'E), Eational Corporation for Basic Marketing
(CONASUPO), Committee for Administration of the Federal Schcol
Construction Program, National Arid Zones Commission, National
Indigenous Institute, National Institute for Rural Community
Development and Low Cost Housing, the Ejido Bank, the Guarantee
Loan Fund and the Agricultural Bank.



ATRINC- 6
Page 2
that cannot be resolved either at the state level or by a Permanent
Working Group (FWG).  The PWG, made up of agency representatives at
the technical level, supports the committee by developing planning
methodology and concepts, screening micro-region investment plans
for consistency, and handling minor operational issues. the PWG in
turn is supported by a staff of 45 technicians located within the
offices of the Presidency.
B.  State Level.  A State Committee with the Governor as
chairman and made up of the state offices of federal agencies
coordinates program execution of participating agencies in the micro-
regions. The Executive Secretary (Vocal Ejecutivo) of the State
Committee or a senior state civil servant under him also serves as
the PIDER director for the state. He is assisted by a Technical
Secretariat (Grupo de Apoyo Tecnlco) of two to five professionals
seconded from PIDER, one of whom is appointed chief.  The Technical
Secretariat may live within the micro-region or visit it as often as
necessary--i.e., frequently each day-- in line with their primarily
responsibility to coordinate PIDER activities in a specific micro-
region.
C. Village/Ejido Level. Village and ejido participation
in both planning and program execution is being improved through a
variety of schemes adapted to the particular, political, social and
administrative characteristics of the micro-region. DAAC personnel
are charged with assisting communities to organize themselves in
order to ensure a fuller involvement in the PIDER program prior to
implementation of the investments program. The municipal chief and
ejido and village authorities also play an important role in local
participation. In a few micro-regions, for example in Sinaloa,
municipal chiefs, at least one day a week are required to monitor
local project execution and report problems to the state director
of the Technical Secretariat.
4.        This three-tiered organization provides the overall structure
under which the project is carried out. Selection of' micro-regions
and approval of investment plans remain centralized, although plan
preparation and coordination among the diffent agencies will be
increasingly delegated to the state level. The individual project work
would always be channeled through the public agency best-suited to
carry it out, as determined by the central coordinating committee
and agreed to by the state committee. Supervision and monitoring
would be ongoing activities of federal level FIDER staff. At the
state and micro-region level PIDER staff are continuously monitoring
project progress.



ANN-3X 5
Page 3
Th.ie project organ7zational framework breaks new grounrIs
in Mdexilco whi. -h has traditionally been characterized by strong
centralization.  Although many important functions have already
been delegated under PDEER, the Government intends to go further
and decentralize public agencies which do not depend on central
technical and organizational back-up.  Decentralization within
public agencies (except for SRH, SOP, DAAC, CFE and COA,iSUJP) has
been compieLed in three states.  Early results are encouraging.
6.        Ivicro-Region Plannig Proced.ures.  PIDER has established
a set of procedures for drawi-ng up mLcro-regioTI c'evelopment plans.
Initially, much of the wTork  as -andertaken 'oy federal level _     DT2.
svaff in conjunction with state level technicians o- federal agencies.
''ow that more micro-regions are being planned at the state level,
federal level PIDTE' staff mainly are responsible for review, revision
and final approval of' plans.  These procedures, suriarized schemati-
vally in Chart 3, show the points of partlcipation of ccmmunities
for determining their lriority needs and presenting them to state
and federal level agencies and PIDD11 represent"ati-ies. During the
initial half-day meetings with micro-region planners, most communities
are not yet sensitized to the possibilities for this kind of involvement.
Holwever, as development proceeds, member of the DAAC SORE teams are
'playing an important role in making them aware of development oppor-
tunit-ies and their obligations under the PIDME program.  When it revamps
and reprograms micro-region plans annually,  PID=i also revises and
incorporates the more detailed development preferences expressed by the
ommuni ties.
7.        Rural Development Departments in Federal Agencies.  Most of
the influential federal mnistries and agencies such as the SOTP, P5 SM,
CONASU-F0, CFE and the Bank of Mexico have substantiLally increased their
physical and organizational capability to deal with the rural pocr.
The l1nistry of FinaLce supplements the agencies' traditional program
budgets and directs them towiards new rural target groups.  Several
countrywide programs under these agernles have obtained T7TRD or 7DB
funding Lor -rural roads, irrigation and credit--some increasingly
benefiting low-income .armers.  The traditionally weaker agencies such
as ;-he SAG, SSA and SRA and the official rural credit banks are being
supported through a tehcnical, organ-izatlional and adminjstrative base.
A  better awareness of the needs of new clientele  s also being fostered.
The function of the PIDTY?. program is to use and build up this base,
decentralize the operational decision-making to the state level and
integrate agency activities among state and local levels. The micro-
region planning exercises are being used by the Presidency for this
objective, with the longer term goal  of eventually integrating and
coordinating all rural nublic investments.



ANTzx 6
Page 4
8.        Coordination at the  Field Level.  Coordination at the
municipal and village levels is necessarily flexible. CONASUFO
organizes its local committees to handle store management, handi-
crafts and small industries. Very often DAAC sets out to concentrate
on ejidos and later broadens its activities to embrace private
smallholders. In another instance, the lavor intensive feeder road
program of the Ministry of Public WJorks may act as catalyst--with
formal local village committees simultaneously functioning as
contractors for construction labor and as counterparts for road
maintenance.  The encouragement these broadening activities have
given to other areas of village organization have been impressive.
SRH operates programs for small irrigation works on a similar
oraanization base. Prior to project installation a local consumers'
association is formed.  SRH and DAAC then draw up an agreement wfith
the association, specifying: (a) works and services the SRH will
provide;  (b) operation and maintenance conditions; (c) amount of
water to be used; and (d) charges covering operation and maintenance
costs and capital payment.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Permanent Working Group (PV\IG)
INTERNAL COMMITTEE #]                 GROUP DIRECTOR            -          CONSULTANTS       l
F~~~~~~~~~~~
GENERAL C OORDINATOR
ADMINISTRATIONl
|  PLANING ;                            STUDIES       l|                 SUPERVISION                            AUTORZAIO
|  DIVISION   l          l      ~~~~~DIVISION  ll                  DIVISION                         |       DIVISION      l
REGIONAL PLANN              UATION                         EVALUATION            N             Fl             AUTHORIZATION AND    STATISTICS AND
REGIONAL PLANNING      EVALUIONON         STDISEVALUTION                     TECHNICAL          FINANCE       RECORDS                BASIC DATA
SECTION         (2)    SECTION  (1)       SECTION(17)     SECTION  (4)       SECTION    l      SECTION        SECTION          (5)    SECTION    (14)
NORTHERN ZONE         (2)
NORTHEASTERN ZONE   (2)
NORTH CENTRAL ZONE  (2)
SOUTH CENTRAL ZONE  (2)
NORTH PACIFIC ZONE    (2)
SOUTH PACIFIC ZONE    (2)
1/ Numbers in parenthesis refer to the number of professionals within          SOUTHEASTERN ZONE   (2)
a particular section.                                                    __.. ____ _ __ ____ ___World  Bank-9114                                          2
rT,
15525X



A?TrEX 6;
chart 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART: FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LEVELS
MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY|
PERMANENT         j                                 CENTRAL COOR DI NA-|
WORKING GROUP                                            TING COMMITTEE
a     I                                                     FEDERAL
INSTITUTIONS -
FEDERAL                           i                                                                      S
I01                1 OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR  |
1                'III
Il                      STATE COORDINA-
TING COMMITTEE
STATE OFFICE OF
TECHNICAL GROUP                                               FEDERAL  1/
INSTfTUTIONS -
STATE
MUNICIPAL
AUTHOR ITI ES
EJIDO & VILLAGE
AUTHORITIES
LOCAL
1 / Federal Institutions represented at the Federal and State level include: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Health and Assistance, Department of Agrarian Affairs and
Colonization, Federal Electric Commission, National Corporation for Basic Marketing, Committee for Administration df the Federal
School Construction Program, National Arid Zones Commission, National Indigenous Institute, National Institute for Rural
Community Development and Low Cast Housing, the Ejido Bank, and The Guarantee Loan Fund.
World Bank-9132{2R)



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EVALUATION AND MONITORING
Introduction
Due to the many agencies involved in the PIDER program, Presidencia
is devising a system to receive a continuous flow of information on diverse
actions taken at both the agency and at the ejido or community level. The
type of information needed by PIDER to adjust micro-region programs requires
both the monitoring of agency interventions and a more substantive evaluation
of effectiveness,
A, Monitoring
At present, the newness of the rural development program and the
involvement of a great number of agencies have led the PIDER group to focus
on developing an adequate monitoring system. Monitoring will continue to
be performed within Presidencia itself, rather than by the new Research Center
for Rural Development (CIDER), described below*  Currently, monitoring is
limited to monthly reports on the physical progress of construction and the
disbursement of appropriated funds. There is no systematic procedure for
comparing the latter information with the investment program to determine the
causes of discrepancies between actual and planned investments. There is
also no attempt to compare actual versus planned unit costs, Comparative
analysis along these lines is required, and Presidencia has expressed a
willingness to expand the monitoring function accordingly. Steps are pre-
sently being taken to experiment in one micro-region with a new format for
monthly reports, in the likelihood of its adoption throughout the PIDER
program.
B. Ongoing Evaluation
The substantive reprogramming of micro-region investments and actions
requires information on the results of agency interventions in relation to
intermediate objectives. An adequate monitoring system, which includes an
identification of the reasons for differences between actual and planned
investments or actions, will produce some information on results, unanticipated
problems and perhaps misconceptions in the initial diagnosis of the micro-
region. But a monitoring system is inevitably incomplete in providing data on
these aspects because of a focus on the physical progress of planned works.
The focus of an ongoing evaluation is on effectiveness rather than physical
progress, and is much more difficult to design and implement.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Ongoing evaluation will be one of the responsibilities given to
CIDER, established in December 1974. This Center is to be budgetarily
independent from the PIDER program. However, CIDER will be conducting its
action research in close cooperation with agency personnel in the micro-
region. If CIDER is conceived as personally or institutionally threatening
to agencies in the field, ongoing evaluation cannot be successfully carried
out and would consequently have to be developed within an alternative
organizational framework.
In the methodologies being developed within CIDER or individual micro-
regions, the focus is being put on acquiring and digesting the information
needed for decision-making. Although some of the necessary information must be
identified by individuals with an intimate knowledge of the programs, organiza-
tions and areas included in various micro-regions, many information needs are
universal. Illustrative areas for "action research" by CIDER are provided
below.
10 Comparison of Planned and Implemented Actions
In any given year of a micro-region plan, particular investments and
activities are programmed for specified communities or areas, If physical tar-
gets are not met or some action is added, there should be an analysis of the
causes of the discrepancies. Reasons for the discrepancies encountered-agency
inefficiency, community unresponsiveness-- may fall into the categories
described below. Or the initial diagnosis of the problem may have been incorrect,
e.g. the area is more appropriate for pasture than for frait trees. No matter
what the cause of the difference, corrective action can then be taken in the
following year.
2. Inter-Agency Coordination and Intra-Agency Efficiency
Many of the investments and actions carried out in micro-region com-
munities are complementary. SRA efforts at organization and settling land
tenure problems, for example, should be carried out in conjunction with action
by credit institutions. SAG extensionists working in the forage silo program
should be in close contact with technicians dealing with other aspects of crop
and livestock production. There should be records to indicate the extent to
which agencies with complementary responsibilities are working in the same com-
munities, the frequency of organized meetings, etc. Some idea of the effective-
ness of their interactions can be derived through interviews with both techni-
cians and campesinos.
Some very good work has already been done in Mexico to assess the
efficiency with which agencies carry out their tasks and the degree to which per-
sonnel understand the nature of their responsibilities. For agencies working
directly with faruer organizations ( SRA, SAG, credit institutions, etc.),
an excellent methodology to assess agency effectiveness has been developed and
tested by the Banco Agropecuario de Occidente. Similar work has been under-



ANNEX 7
Page 3
taken in evaluations of the Plan Puebla experience, and certainly in other
programs and agencies as we1.
3. The Effectiveness of Campesino Organizations
Campesino organizations vary considerably in their purposes and
comprehensiveness. The evaluation of their effectiveness, therefore, requires
a typology of farmer organizations. The typology would range from loosely
organized groups for credit only to enterprises involving the joint ownership
of land and assets. BANAGRO has also created such a typology.
There should be a strong correlation between the comprehensiveness
of camResino organization and the communities' stage of development, as
measured by the indicators identified previously. Unless there is a tradi-
tion of group action, eiidatarios used to operating individually in a sub-
sistence or below subsistence economy are unlikely to form more than credit
groups. The first few years of PIDER action can only be expected to raise on-
farm production to cover family consumption needs and to produce a small sur-
plus for financing limited new technology and the costs of maintaining and
operating PIDER investments. Later, as the marketable surplus grows and cash
income increases, raising effective demand, there is a motivation for more
comprehensive types of organization. The motivation for more sophisticated
forms of organization will be conditioned by the early simpler group experience.
Indicators of group efficiency and the degree to which decision-
making is shared include: (1) frequency of assemblies, (2) attendance at
meetings, (3) key components in group charters or regulations, (4) credit
repayment records, (5) reasons for non-payment, (6) sanctions for non-payment
and many other, depending upon the principal purposes of the organization.
In organizations involTing joint ownership of assets, there should also be an
analysis of the internal distribution of profits and work, as well as the
distribution criteria. Interviews with group members are particularly impor-
tant to determine how individuals perceive both the benefits from organization
and their role in decision-making.
4. Production. Cost and Marketing Data
Micro-region targets, and the ex-ante evaluation, call for immediate,
significant increases in the yields per hectare of annual crops, primarily
through the application of fertilizer and changes in farming techniques. All
livestock programs similarly anticipate high levels of productivity, measured
in terms of effective calving rates and animal units per hectare. Records
should be kept regularly of yields, calving rates and other basic indicators
of productivityO In the case of fruit trees, there are also two or three
measures of progress, such as annual tree growth and records of diseases.
Production costs, transport costs and marketing information, in-
cluding product prices, selling points and final market outlets are important
for ongoing evaluation0 Product prices, input costs and physical output data
are also used in the financial analysis.



ANNEX 7
Pa-ge 4
5. Labor Intensity of Feeder Roads and Water Conservation
The intensity of labor in feeder road and water conservation works
varies from 60% to 80% of cost, excluding overheads. During the evaluation
of the project, various economic tests of varying the intensity of capital
to labor ratios in these projects would be undertaken0
6. Financial Analysis
An annual review of the financial situation of participants in
directly productive activities is essential to prevent excessive indebtedness
in relation to present and expected net cash inflow. The repayment of PIDER
productive investments is supposed to be determined on the basis of a cash
flow analysis, so that amortization periods can be adjusted to the ejido's
repayment capacity. Yet official banks and other entities will also be ex-
tending both short and long term credit. The ejido and individual borrowers
could easily find themselves suddenly in an untenable financial position with-
out comprehensive monitoring of cash flow.
When long term investments are undertaken, there is also a need for
cash flow protections. If, for example, effective calving rates are not
reaching ex-ante targets, it is critical to estimate the effects upon future
income when interest and/or amortization payments must be made. An early
response, in the form of action to increase potential income or to reschedule
repayments, could mean the difference between eventual success or failure
of the farm enterprise. This type of analysis will also modify initial targets
and objectives, and lead to improved ex-ante evaluations.
7.  Commuity Attitudes and Responsiveness
The follow-up campesino organizations, described above, will indicate
a great deal about attitudes and responsiveness0 Other indicators are: (1) the
proportion of e.iidatarios contributing free labor to community projects,
(2) the regularity of the labor contribution, (3) visual evidence of the care
taken for PIDER investments, (4) the sense of either group or individual owner-
ship of PIDER investments, etc. (Additions by Sergio).
Data Collection. The quantitative data required for ongoing evalua-
tion should be collected and recorded either by agency technical staff or
ejidatarios themselves. Evaluation personnel should participate to the ex-
tent that they are assured the data are recorded accurately and completely.
Much of the data, particularly for (3), (4) and (5) above, can be collected
by ejidatarios, who would probably be more thorough and reliable than tech-
nicians. The work load of technicians is such that they are often pressed for
time in field visits, and other responsibilities are considered more imme-
diate than filling out fairly detailed forms. The e.jidatario, on the other
hand, has much easier access to the information. Furthermore, a community role
in data collection transfers additional responsibility to the ejido. There
could be significant secondary benefits through learning to use skills
acquired through education for improved farm management.
Although ever poor, subsistence farmers are acutely aware of costs,
yields, etc. without keeping written records, a permanent and systematic
recording of farm and financial data should have very positive results.



ANNEX 7
Page o
C. Ex-nost Evaluation
E:c-post evaluation is not as important for PIDEP as action research,
but it is essential for the design of future rural development programs in
Mexico and elsewhere.  Ex-post evaluations will also be conducted through
CIDER, although much of this work will be contracted out to universities and
other research institutions.  CIDER's planned autonomy is particularly
important for this level of evaluation, which must be carried out with
complete objectivity. CIDER is expected to initiate this activitv bv con-
tracting for the evaluation of earlier, Mexican rural development projects
and programs. The study of experiences in other programs should provide
some immediate benefits for the design or reprogramming of PIDER micro-region
activities. PIDER. has already benefitted, for example, from the ex-post
analyses of the Plan Pueblo program.
Despite the several year waiting period before the PIDER program
is sufficiently mature to warrant ex-post evaluation, CIDPR must develop a
tentative methodology for these studies in 1975.  A methodology is needed
to identify and collect the base-line data. Even some of the more obvious
base-line data are presently not available at the community or eJido level.
There is inadequate or no information collected systematically cn family
income, sources of income, consumption, land distribution, employment and
migration.  Yet these data are fundamental for assessing the long-term impact
of PIDER actions in micro-regions.
Organization of CIDmER
CIDER will be created with budgetary resources provided directly
from the Secretaria de IIacienda v Credito Publicos.  The projected 10-member
Board ol Directors includes the major agencies involved in the PIDER program
(SAG, SOP, SRH and SRA ), PIDER, DiDECO, CONASUPO, the Fjido Bank and two
representatives from the I-linistry of Finance.  The Coordinating Comnission
for the Agricultural Sector (COCOSA), which has provided the most substantial
ideas for an approach to evaluation witiin CIDER, is not currently linked to
the Center through the Board, but is through an Advisory Panel.
Training
As previously indicated, CIDER will be structured to accommodate
both evaluation and training functions. The Center's training activities are
intended to complement the instruction received 'bv rural development
nrofessionals in universities and in their respective agencies. >raining
material and case studies will be generated through the research carried
out or contracted by CIDER.  The current emphasis withJin Preside-ncia is on
the need for cross-fertilization bet-ween research and training througn the
movement of staff from one function to another.  Present clans for CIDER,
therefore, anticipate a loose structure under a Director and Deputy Diretor,
who would be free to alter the internal organization as recuired for the
Center's work.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Initially, the internal organization of CIDER is expected to involve
the division of a staff of about 30 into a number of project groups, corres-
ponding to particular activities. The largest group would contain action
research teams, distributed in three or four micro-regions for ongoing
evaluation.  The teams would conduct local conferences and seminars as part
of their research and training activities. T'he size of each team would be
four, although persons would be added temporarily for certain phases of work.
ZYfo other groups would be established for background research and
sub-contracted research. The background research group jould scan, evaluate
and comnmunicate selectively the findings of research projects and the reports
of practitioners in rural development both in Mexico and abroad.  The studies
reviewed would not be limited to evaluations of rural Drojects, but would
include community and anthropological studies contributing to a better under-
standing of PIDER's client groups. This group would also conduct its own
research work to produce a typology of communities, indicators of rural devel-
opment, etc. and would become involved in ex-post evaluation.  The background
research group would work closely with the group for sub-contracted research,
which would cornmission similar studies with outside institutions.
- fourth group, which would probably be one person rather than a
team, would coordinate and develop training activities associated with CIDER.
The training group would provide liaison between the Center and agencies
dith their own training programs, particularly SRA.
The final group would have responsibility for the dissemination
of research. There would be a rotation of staff from the field to perform
this function, with the possible exception of a nermanent publicist.
In documents prepared for Presidencia, great importance is being
given to the careful selection of CIDEPR staff.  There is acceptance of the
need for a multi-disciplinary staff in the fields most relevant for analyzing
the development process at the community level. S'election of personnel will
also be based upon both academic background and field experience. CIDER> is
exoected to borrow a portion of its staff from participating PIDETR agencies.
the latter may be especially desirable for ongoing evaluation,, which depends
upon the responsiveness and involvement of action agencies.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
Introduction
1.        In assessing a countrywide program involving some 14 agencies,
various distinct investment categories and considerable beneficiaries, a
number of assumptions were made in analyzing the economic and financial
returns. First, the micro-regions were categorized into six ecological
zones considered typical for the major zones to be covered by the overall
program. Micro-regions were appraised in detail from each of these
"fecological" zones. Second, "representative" ejido or village development
plans were developed for each of these "typical" micro-regions. These
budgets included credit, directly productive infrastructure, productive
support infrastructure, and social investment and supporting applied
research and extension services. Financial rates of return were calculated
only on the directly productive activities including credit. Economic rates
of return measured returns to directly productive and credit investment, as
well as to supporting productive investment, such as feeder roads, electri-
fication, extension, research and markets necessary to achieve the incremental
benefits. Investment in social infrastructure such as water, health and
education facilities were not charged as costs in the economic analyses.
Financial AnaL2ses
20        Family Sabsistence Allowances. Current familiest expenditures are
taken as the present level of the imputed value of on-farm consumed produce
plus consumer goods purchased. On-farm consumption is high and most of the in-
cremental income may be expended in non-durable goods. There is no data on
consumption patterns and any projection is arbitrary. 2/
3.        Income Levels, Savings and Consumption. The goal of the PIDER pro-
ject is that participating beneficiaries should receive an income similar to the
minimum legal wage. The minimum legal daily wage multiplied by 270 working
days per year equals the annual income. The inccme level is assumed to include
all consumed goods plus the expected net cash balance left after expenses for
j A case study of the indigenous community of San Pedro Lagunillas, Nayarit
micro-region, shows that 63.1% of the total family income goes for food
and clothing. Health accounts for 13% and house maintenance for 5%. The
average family income level is Mex$9,129 (US$730/year). This average income
comprises 4607% of imputed value of on-farm consumption and 53.3% of
cash-income from off-farm employment.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
maintenance and operation of all directly productive and support invest-
ments are paid. All additional income above the target income based on
the minimum legal wage is assumed as savings, available to repay the PIDER
investment amortization and interests of development loans of the following
year. However, if the target income is not achieved, all incremental
income is considered as family subsistence allowances. Family allowances
are considered in the cash outflow as family expenditures.
4.        The beneficiaries of the PIDER project are mainly subsistence
farmers with very small marketable surpluses, if any, available to repay
long-term productive investments in the short run. Therefore, it is essen-
tial that the loan repayment include a grace period until production reaches
a minimum marketable surplus. In addition, the repayment period must be
long enough to permit small payments so that the ejido will be left with
sufficient cash to provide the participating farmers with a minimum income
for family expenditures.
5.       The PIDER project does not envisage interest charges on long-term
loans made for basic infrastructure investment from PIDER funds. The
justification for not charging interest is that the selected "backward"
micro-regions for the most part are at a comparative economic disadvantage
with the rest of the country. However, interest rates are charged in all
"development loans", which comprise mainly cattle, hogs, beekeeping and
tree-fruit production. These types of investments are financed by the
Banks. Operating expenses for development activities as well as annual
crops are to be financed either by official or private Banks.
Financial Rates of Return
6.        Financial rates of return were measured for all of the investment,
including credit in directly productive activities being carried out at the
ejido or village levels. These returns were measured from "representative"
ejido or village-level development budgets. Returns were aggregated, e.g.
irrigation, livestock, fruit production and rainfed grain production, into
"packages" for purposes of the rate of return calculations. Separate or
"partial" budget analyses for specific development activities such as dairy
production or rainfed corn production were not undertaken. Such analyses
were done under Loan 910-ME for beef cattle, irrigated dairying, fruit
production and some small-scale agro-industries.
7.        Physical contingencies of 10% of investment costs were included
in the cost streams as these would represent, if required, a utilization of
real resources by participating beneficiaries.
8.        Sensitivity analyses were undertaken primarily on the financial
flows, though critical technical assumptions, such as yield increases on
rainfed corn production 1 were also varied. The resulting financial rates
of return for the six representative micro-regions are given in the Table
following.
%/ Corn yields increased 20% raised the rate of return to 22%; a 20%
decrease in expected yields dropped return to 19%.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
+10% for Physical   +20% for Inv.   +20% for Oper.
Contingencies         Costs            Costs
Sur de Nuevo Leon  12.15           10.35               8.85             7.95
Sinaloa            20.65           18.25              16.25            18.55
Sur de Yucatan     18.75           16.75              15.05            16.15
El Llano           24.45           22.75              21.25            23.65
Zacapoaxtla        41.35           37.75              34.65            30.75
Guanajuato         21.50           19.35              16.40            14.85
Economic Analysis
9.         The economic and financial analysis takes as the direct benefits of
the project only the incremental output, net of farming expenses.  This
incremental output is due to higher yields of the ongoing agriculture and new
agricultural activities implemented through the directly productive invest-
ments. However, there are a number of direct benefits implicit in the increm-
ental output, aside from higher levels of employment and income. The new
agricultural activities are feasible only through higher skill levels achieved
by farmers which are direct benefits since they come from on-farm training
provided through the PIDER project. Higher skill levels may lead to better
farm management and more efficient use of available resources, which in turn
has direct benefits through soil and water conservation badly needed in these
backward micro-regions. These direct benefits from training and soil and
water conservation can be assessed only by comparing output levels with and
without PIDER project. Output levels have not been constant, rather they
have been declining over the past decade due to a deterioration of natural
resources and the low levels of physical and technological inputs. There
are no available data to quantify the increasingly lower levels of yields and
production, which are apparent today from the depleted resources of once
productive croplands, grazing lands and forests. Hence without the PIDER
project both output and standard of living could very well deteriorate in the
near future; in any case, they can in no way be assumed as constants.
10.-       The second package of direct benefits are measured through improve-
ments in the standard of living in the ejidos and indigenous communities. It
is apparent that most new production will be absorbed by on-farm consumption pro-
viding higher standard of living in the short-run and better family diets in
the long-run. New health and education facilities will contribute to improved
standards of living, although these effects are not taken into account in the
incremental income and employment levels. The present poor health levels are
characterized by respiratory diseases and stomach disorders due to unbalanced
diets, polluted drinking water sources, and contaminated foods. Improved
education facilities may lay the basis for a better trained population some of
which eventually may have to outmigrate.
11.        The indirect benefits are difficult to assess since they refer more
to derived demand of services and physical inputs required by the new developed
productive units and the incremental aggregate output. The indirect benefits
rely more on the efficiency attained by development agencies in reaching the
entire target population and production areas and achieving their short-term
objectives and long-term goals.
12.        In undertaking the economic analyses, the basic module used to
generate the cash flows was the ejido or village-level development budget.
The net cash flow to the beneficiary was adjusted under the following assumptions:



ANNEX 8
Page 7
a. The costs of productive support (feeder roads, extension, research
and markets) needed to achieve the estimated increment in production
were added to the cash flow. These costs are borne by the Govern-
ment and not the beneficiary.
b. The cost of unskilled labor used in the construction of indirectly
productive and productive support assets was redaced from the
rate actually paid by Government to the opportunity wage. This op-
portunity wage was estimated in each of the "representative" micro-
regions as the casual labor daily wage rate in the non-crop season,
e.g. what a landless laborer could earn doing odd jobs on a daily
basis in that area. This rate varied from 70% of the government mi-
nimum wage in Sinoloa to 40% of this wage in the densely-populated,
very poor micro-region of Zacapoaxtla in the state of Puebla. The pre-
vailing local labor wage or opportunity wage in each micro-region in
the non-crop season was taken as an approximation to shadow wages and
used to calculate both the value of community contributions in terms
of labor (as already was said above) and to adjust the minimum legal
wage used in financial calculations for the purpose of the economic
rate of return analysis. The relationship between the legal minimum
wage and the opportunity cost of unskilled labor on a daily basis
are shown below:
Representative                   A                    B           B/A
Micro-regions           Legal minimum wage   Opportunity wage
Mex.$/day/1          Mex. $/day/2        %
Sinoloa                          35                   28          70
Sur de Nuevo Leon                35                   20          60
Yucatan                          25                   10          40
Guanajuato                       30                   20          65
Zacapoaxtla                      25                   10          40
Aguascalientes                    30                  15          50
j/ Source: Secretaria de Presidencia: PIDER Project. Comision
de Salarios Minimos
2/ Source: Mission field data
The opportunity wage levels of off-farm employment in raral areas in
these micro-regions were assumed relatively constant through the
entire development period. The wage levels are not expected to increase
since unemployment and disguised unemployment are high in these micro-
regions, and income is expected to increase for on-farm employment.
Co Physical input pricesO The prices of all variable inputs were assumed
equal to the local market prices or those domestic prices controlled
by government agencies. The local market prices in each micro-region
were taken,with special attention to draft animals, seeds and trans-
portation. Controlled domestic prices were taken especially for fun-
gicides, pesticides and fertilizers. Cattle production costs were taken
on the basis of information provided by SAG for each year.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
d. Output prices. The incremental output was assumed not
to affect the overall price relationships. The PIDER
project though affecting a large number of micro-regions
will benefit only a fraction of the total population of each
micro-region; moreover, the target population will consume
a large proportion of the incremental output in the short-
and medium-term of development.
e.  The foreign exchange costs and earnings of the Project were
not adjusted.
f. The results of these adjustments are reflected in the economic
rates of return listed below:
Economic Rates of Return
10% incr. in       20% incr. in       20% incr. in
investment         investment         operating
costs              costs              costs
Sur de Nuevo Leon  13.40    11.50              10.45              10.10
Sinaloa            14.75    12.90              11.25              12.80
Sur de Yucatan     18.85    16.6o              14.70              16.1o
El Llano            22.85    21.60             20.50              21.23
Zacapoaxtla         28.07    25.90             23.90              18.30
Guanajuato         13.80    12.20               9.70              10.30
13.      Sensitivity analysis was carried out indicating that economic returns
on productive investment in a representative ejido in, for example, Sinaloa
state would fall from 16% to 12% with a 20% increase in investment costs and
to 13% with a 20% increase in operating costs. A 20% shortfall in incremental
maize yields would drop this economic rate of return to 14% while a 20%
increase in yields would raise the rate to 17%.
14.      Employment levels.   Projected employment levels reflect the temporary
labor requirements in the four year investment period of the PIDER project, as
well as those of the on-going agricultural activities. Following the four year
program, further increases in employment levels are generated either from the
higher labor requirements of improved farming systems or from the new
activities implemented through the directly productive investments.
15.      The overall employment generated by PIDER, temporal and permanent,
will solve in different degrees the present levels of unemployment, but in few,
if any, cases exist where PIDER investments would lead to full employment.
Thus, outmigration is likely to continue, especially in over populated micro-
regions.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
16.        The PIDER project states that community labor contributions may
account for up to 20% of the total investment cost. However, if community
contributions in terms of labor are valued at the on-going local wages
(roughly 60 to 80% of the minimum legal wage) in some cases almost all the
labor requirements would be undertaken by the communities. This situation
would go against one of the short-term objectives of the PIDER project, which
is to stimulate participating farmers through temporal employment generation
and income. Thus, the assumption used instead is that communities' contri-
butions account up or it is equal to 50% of the man-day requirements of the
investment program at the on-going local wages. The remaining labor require-
ments are assumed to be paid at the minimum legal wage by PIDER.
17.        In addition to these analyses, some quantitative sector analyses
(feeder roads and rural stores) were undertaken to ascertain benefits.
Feeder Roads
18.        Except in rare cases there is no evidence that feeder road invest-
ments in the micro-region can generate much local economic development of
their own. While accessibility is a serious constraint in every micro-region,
road network improvement and expansion efforts obviously cannot remove other
constraints such as lack of water, demographic pressure, poor agricultural
techniques and so forth. The case of roads opening up areas with a good
agricultural potential that had not been previously exploited because of poor
accessibility is the exception.
19.        Flows are, in general, too low to justify feeder roads economically
in terms of transport cost savings on normal and diverted traffic. Some
tentative evaluations were made in the Nuevo Leon and Zacapoaxtla micro-
regions by adopting a cost of Mex$2.13 (US$0.17) per ton km vs. a mule cost of
Mex$30 (US$2.40) per day (the trucking cost was determined by analyzing SOP's
truck expenditures in the Zacapoaxtla micro-region; the mule cost was set
equal to the rental fee; a mule carries about 130 kg). Agricultural surpluses
were determined by estimating productivity and consumption per family. Traffic
flows induced by such surpluses were then calculated, with the users' savings
associated with a shift from animal to truck transport after the road is opened.
Other benefits resulting from mobility increases due to the introduction of
bus and taxi services and to shorter road distances were not taken into account,
being generally of little significance. It was then found that most feeder
roads could not break even and that noe had an economic rate of return higher
than 10%.
20.        The results of the above economic analysis does not, however, mean
that the roads generally are unjustified investments. These roads have to be
looked upon in a wider context. The most important contribution that road



ANNEX 8
Page 7
investments in the micro-regions are making to the development of their
area of influence is the infrastructure support they provide to the
PIDER project. Such a contribution cannot be evaluated by looking upon
the roads in isolation from the rest of the PIDER package. Inversely,
this package would not be feasible technically and economically without
the feeder roads (in particular, accessibility improvements were implicitly
taken into account in projecting agricultural production).
21-        The purpose of the proposed procedures is to select feeder road
projects and the related directly productive investments they support
whenever their joint economic rate of return is above 10%. The major directly
productive PIDER components in every micro-region are set on some uniform
scale (in this report, the scale is 100 ha for crops and 100 initial A.U.
for livestock investments). They are then analyzed independently and the
present worth of their respective net benefit stream (with 100 ha or 100
initial A.U.) evaluated at10%rate of interest, using the village and ejido
models. Dividing present worths by the net present cost per km of feeder
road at 10%rate of interest (with a typical construction cost per kn;
maintenance costs are set at US$240 per km on 20 years) yields corresponding
critical distances -- beyond such distances, it does not pay to build a
feeder road for the sole purpose of supporting some productive investment of
the scale specified above.
22.        Checking the economic feasibility of any project is done by
combining such critical distances. As an example, consider a 15 km road
project in the Zacapoaxtla micro-region, supporting the development of 360 ha
of rainfed corn and beans and 15 ha of avocados; 125 ha of potatoes are grown
as a second crop. The critical distance for such investments is the sum of
the following:
i. the critical distance for corn and beans development
= 3.60 x 1.7 or about 6.1 km;
ii.  the critical distance for potato growing development
= 1.25 x 10.2 or about 12.7 km;
iii. the critical distance for avocado development
= .15 x 40 = 6 km.
i.e. the total critical distance is 24.8 km and the project is acceptable.
Providing that a road is necessary to develop a block of land, directly
productive components should be identified and the critical number of km that
can be built determined. If the number of km actually programmed is larger
than this critical value, the road would be rejected along with the directly
productive investments it supports.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
23.        The method has been designed to check the effectiveness of joint
road and related directly productive investments, none of which could be
profitably undertaken independently. If the procedure is applied to cases
where the accessibility constraint is not pronounced, conservative results
should be expected.
Rural Stores
2h.        Because the rural sector is generally very poor, with limited
buying power, it is often assumed away as part of the country's commercial
market. As a consequence, marketing of consumer goods to the rural sector
has generally been a forgotten dimension of rural development. Such over-
sight ignores reality. Most campesinos do enter into the goods economy to
some extent as indicated in the introductory statistics on subsistence
farmers. Because of this, and because food expenditures probably absorb
80% of their family budget, food prices have a dramatic impact on the economic
situation of the rural family. The fixed investment ir- a rural CONASUPO
store amounts to about US$2,400 and another US$2,500 is needed for working
capital. The rural CONASUFO store in Scolasticas had sales of US$5,400 in
1973. Assuming that CONASUPO prices were 20% lower than in other stores,
campesino purchasing power in Scolasticas increased US$1,090, plus the
store manager received commissions amounting to about 4% of sales or US$200.
If one takes off depreciation at 15 years and interest on the working capital
at 10%, the return on the US$4,900 fixed investment is 19.9%. This represents
a significant direct economic benefit to the campesinos. In addition, the
store may help untie the campesino from having to sell his crop at lower
prices to store owners in exchange for merchandise; he might thereby be able
to sell to CONASUPO buying centers at higher prices, thus increasing further
his income.



ANNFX 8
Table I
MIC90-RiGION SUMMARY AAIAlYSES
InveaRnent Distribution (1973-1976) V'
Directly Productive                                                                                                  Financial                  Econonic
Eco1ogical             and                  Socilll          e Investnent    Before Developae9t   After Development                  Rate  of                   Rate of
Micro-Regions                       Posolation  Area           Zone         Prod-ctive SupPort    Infrastru-ture   Per Capita (US$)   Familv Incone              Faily Incoe (8th year)           Ri t-r                    Return    /
(See Map 11418 for location)                     sq/k-n ---- US.S ------s--                                                                                                                                                    7,
1.  Aguosualientee, El Llano*         72,311    2,633       Seni-arid              79.1                 18.9               118                  340                   1,000                         30.3                       13.1
2.  Baja Colifornia Sur                36,712   51,952        Arid                 72.7                 23.8               113                  615                   1,435                         15.5                      1i.6
3.  Hecelchacan, Campeche **          24,698   12,108       Wet Tropical           81.1                 18.4               336                  275                      550                        33.9                       17.6
4.  Ixt]ahuacan, Colima                42,853    2,727      Dry Tropical           87.2                  12.2              188                   525                  1,935                         33.3                       23.0
5.  Franciso.   Villa, Durango**      43,905    9,037        Temperate             75.4                 24.0               232                  480                   1.150                         18.4                       16.4
6.  Normate,  .na.u.Juto*              71,451    4,956      Seal-arid              86.8                  13.2              252                   450                  1,150                         21.8                       15.5
7.  Onetepe., Guerrero *              51,781    3,009       Dry Tropical           74.4                 25.2               21.1                 575                   1,090                         l5.O                       12.7
8.  Orient-, Moreloa**                44,995    1,215        Teaperate             84.5                 14.8               206                  380                      680                        15.5                       13.S
9.  Sur, Nluevo Leon*                102,620   17,377       Seni-arld              82.5                 15.3               :1bl                 450                    1,300                        25.9                       23.2
10. Vallee Centrales, Oaxaca          53,046    4,573       Dry Tropical           85.0                 15.0               181                   320                     890                        28.2                       13.5
11. Zacapoantla, Puebla*              60,790       596       Tenperate             73.2                 24.5               177                   350                     680                        18.0                       16.6
12. Vallen. Sea Luis Potosi           29,857    2,111       Dry Tropic<l           90.9                   8.5      7        90                  480                   1,430                         37.0                       20.0
13. Coeclc-Elota, Sinaloa             47,895    8,834        Transition            75.7                 17.2               241                  370                      830                        ie 9                       13.h
14. Sur, Yucatan*                      11,594    2,583      Wet Tropics            88.6                   9.0              658                  230                      960                        16.                       15.3
15. Fresaillo-Caler., Zcatencas       68,980    4,680           Arid               74.8                 24.9               171                  420                      950                        22.2                       10.8
Average/Micro-region              50,898    8,552                              82                    18                197                  420                   1,160                         22.5                       16.0
* Appraised in detail in the field(See Annex 1 for appraisal summaBries)
Remaining plans submitted reviewed in I8RD with field oheecks made
in micro-regions with **.
1/ For overall 1973-1976 investment progran including credit.
2  Includes project ndministr.tion costs averaging 1% of total invesbsa nt.
I/ lnclues estimated value of production for subsistence consumption.
Data baned on actual, not necessarily representative, ejidn budgets
prepared by PiI,ucalaa1
4/ Based oc  actual, not necessarily representative, badgets prepared
by PIDER for each micro-region,
5/ An calculated by PIDER on the basis of benefits and casts taken on a niro-region basis.
The econonic rates of return calculated by the Bank for nix aicro-regl eon were based on
"repre,setative eJido rodels lithin the-s olcro-regiono.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPi$ENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY AND FISCAL BURDEN
General
Government's policy on cost recovery is not only based on budgetary
criteria but takes into account the extent to which private benefits are
identifiable and beneficiaries have the capacity to repay. Thus, Government
would aim at full recovery of most directly productive investments, but repay-
ment rates would depend on the income levels of beneficiaries. Since the
benefits of this project would go to the rural poor, who will need part of
the income increase to meet their subsistence needs, 4O% of directly productive
productive  infrastructure  recovered,  but all costs of maintaining these
investments would be borne by the beneficiaries. Further, only a small part
of productive support services and about half the cost of social infrastructure
would be recovered (Tables 1 and 2). The procedures for cost recovery are set
forth below.
Investment Costs (See Table 1)
Irrigation. The Federal Water Law requires beneficiaries of irriga-
tion to repay capital investments at rates determined by SRH and SAG after
detailed study of their repayment capacity.  The contract with SRH and SAG
would commit beneficiaries to repay the original investment, and indicate the
amounts to be repaid in the third and fourth year after completion of the
infrastructure. These amounts would be revised for the fifth and subsequent
years on the basis of actual income and estimated subsistence needs, for which
the minimum wage is an indicator. The composition of beneficiaries would be
about the same as for livestock infrastructure, allowing a recovery rate of
50% SRH collects repayments from its water charges. Recovery is over 25
years without interest.
Fruit Production. CONAFRUT also enters into agreements with groups
of beneficiaries committing them to repay the original investment. However,
with about the same composition of beneficiaries as above, the recovery rate
would be about 50%.
Livestock Infrastructure. Groups of beneficiaries would be committed
in principle in their contract with SAG to repay original investments in the
on-farm commercial-scale demonstration units. However, some 30% of the expected
beneficiaries have before-project family incomes under US$375 p.a. and would
not be able to repay the investment. Another 40% of the beneficiaries with
incomes between US$375 and US$475 could repay an estimated 50%. Thus, Govern-
ment would on the average recover about 50% of this component.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Soil and Water Conservation. The Mexican Government considers
conservation of soil and water of national interest and its policy is not
to charge beneficiaries for the initial investment. However, subsequent
maintenance of conservation works by beneficiaries is closely supervised by
SAG.
Beekeeping. INI enters into contracts with groups of beneficiaries
obliging them to repay the costs of the initial investment. Since beekeeping
provides additional cash income and has a high rate of return, a 100% recovery
is feasible.
Credit. Current terms and conditions are 3 to 12 years at 7.6%
for development credit and up to one year at 12% for seasonal production credit.
Credit would be provided through public and private banks under technical and
financial supervision by FONDO.
Productive Support. Investments in feeder roads, extension and field
demonstration. and farmer organization would not be recovered from beneficiaries
For marketing, however, OONASUPO is expected to enter amortization over 15 years
and interest at the opportunity cost of capital into its cost calculations for
purposes of setting its margins. Moreover, the community would provide the
site and a building for remodelling into a rural store.
Other Infrastructure. Government does not recover its capital invest-
ments in health, water supply, primary education and self-help projects.
However, the benefitting communities participate in these investments by
providing sites and - to the extent possible - labor and local materials. In
health and primary education, this contribution amounts on the average to 10%
of the financial cost. For self-help projects, all local labor and materials
are provided by the community; the project would only provide supervisory
power and materials that are not available locally. For electrification and
drinking water, cost recovery is arranged as follows.
ELectrification. Upon installation, beneficiaries would provide a
20% cash contribution to the investment cost of the system. Further, individual
families would pay all costs of internal household wiring, which are not included
in the project. The remaining 80% of the system's cost would be recovered
through electricity charges, which CFE sets sufficiently high to recover the
investment over 25 years without interest.
Drinking Water. Both SRH{ and SSA would require beneficiaries to
contribute at least 15% of the construction cost of the system, either in labor
and local materials or in cash. Beneficiaries' cash payments, which have been
included in the project cost, are estimated at one-fifth of their contribution,
or about 5% of the amount included in the project for water supply. Contri-
butions in kind and the costs of house connections, which are installed at the
expense of individual families, are not included in the project.
Project Administration. The costs of technical services would be
borne by Government without recovery.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Conclusion. On the basis of the above estimates, Government would
recover US$150 million, or 50% of project cost. Apart from interest, the
fiscal burden for Government would be US$144 million.
Operation and Maintenance Costsi/(See Table 2)
Livestock Infrastructure. Under their contract with SAG, benefi-
ciaries are obligated to maintain the infrastructure according to SAG's
guidelines and under supervision of the regional SAG conservation staff.
Irrigation. Both SRH and SAG would ensure a 100% contribution
to maintenance by beneficiaries. SRH takes full responsibility for both
operation and maintenance of its systems, and recovers all costs from the
users associations through water charges. SAG leaves this to the local
water committees, which maintain their system at their own expense, under
SAG supervision.
Soil and Water Conservation. Maintenance of the conservation works
constructed under the project would be carried out by the ejido/village con-
servation association under SAG supervision. The obligation of beneficiaries
to maintain those works would be spelled out in their contract with SAG.
Beekeeping, Forestry:i Fishery. For all three components, the
groups of beneficiaries are obligated under their contract with SAG to main-
tain these investments. Maintenance would be carried out by beneficiaries
under SAG supervision.
Feeder Roads. Road maintenance is the responsibility of SOP, which
finances this from its regular budget without recovery from beneficiaries.
Extension and Field Demonstration. After the initial intensive
effort to introduce improved technical practices and to ensure proper use of
the productive investments, SAG's extension and field demonstration staff
would be reduced. Their salaries and other operating expenses would be
financed from SAG's regular budget without recovery from beneficiaries.
Fanmer Organization. Once the basic village/ejido organizations
are set up and=operating, SRAts community development brigades wrould be
reduced to an average size of two agents per micro-region. Their salaries
and other operating expenses would be financed from SRA's regular budget
without recovery.
M4arketing. I4aintenance and operating expenses, amounting to
US$3,000 per rural store and US$20,000 per rural warehouse, would be carried
out by CONASUPO. These costs would be recuperated through the prices that
CONASUPO charges beneficiaries. A start-up working capital would equally by
recovered.
/ For directly productive investments, only maintenance costs have been
estimated, since beneficiaries are fully responsible for their use.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Health. The health posts and centers would be operated and
maintained by SSA, and their costs of US$3,000 per post and US$15,000
per center, financed from its regular budget. Medicines and dressings,
however, estimated at US40.75 per visit, would be paid by beneficiaries.
Primary Education.  The primary schools would be operated by
the Minist                 nd maintained by CAPFCE.  Their costs, amounting
to US$3,000 per 50-student classroom, would be financed from the regular
budget. However, costs of materials, such as paper and pencils, and extra-
curricular activities would be paid by the parents.
Electrification. Operation and maintenance of the electricity
network would be carried out by CFE, with full cost recover-y from benefi-
ciaries.
Drinking Water. The local water committees would operate and
maintain the water systems under SRH or SSA supervision. Their costs would
be fully covered by user charges, set in consultation between these committees
and SRH or SSA.
Self-Help Projects. The benefitting communities would operate
and maintain the facilities constructed with self-help at their own expense
and with advisory assistance by SOP.
Project Administration. The ongoing evaluation effort w-ould be
financed by Government through the regular CIDER budget.
Conclusion. The above estimates indicate that beneficiaries would
contribute US$6.5 million to operation and maintenance costs. They would
bear 100% of the cost of maintaining the directly productive investments and
contribute 30% to the operation and maintenance costs of productive support
and social infrastructure investments. The fiscal burden for Government
would be US$6.7 million p.a., or 0.6% of estimated total public recurrent
expenditures in 1980. These expenditures would provide the beneficiaries
with a level of Government services which is about average nationwide, but
still far below urban standards. For direct beneficiaries average expendi-
tures per capita would be US$10, which compares with total public recurrent
expenditures, estimated at US$85 per capita in 1980.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
IMEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED RECOVERY OF INVESTMENT COSTS
Project            Total            Recovery  Interest  Amount           Proportion
Component           Investment      Period    Rate       Recovered       Recovered
(US$ million)   (years)      2       (US$ million)  (%)
I. Directly Productive
A. 1. Livestock Infra-
structure           21.0           25          --         10.0           50
2. Irrigation          35.2           25          __          17.0          50
3. Fruit Production    5.7            12          __           2.8          50
4. Soil and Water
Conservation       10.4            --          --          --             0
5. Beekeeping           1.1           10          --           1.1         100'
6. Forestry and Other  1.9            --          --                         0
75.3                                  30.9          (4o)
B. 1. Development Credit 45.5             3-12       7.6          45.5         100
2. Seasonal Production
Credit             18.0             1       12.0          18.0          100
63.5                                  63.5         (100)
II. Prvodctive Support
7. Feede r Roads       12.9           __          __           __           0
2. Extension           15.1           --          --           --           0
3. Farmer Organization 6.1             --         --           --           O
4. Marketing            1.4            15         --           1.4         100
5.-Electrification    12.1             25         __          12.1         100
47.6                                  13.5          (28)
III. Other Infrastructure
1. Health               3.3           ---                       -0
2. Education            5.8           --          --                        0
3. Drinking Water      12.5                       --             0          0
4. Self-Help Projects  3.4             _ -                     _            0
25.0                                     .0         (0)
IV. Evaluation                0.9           --          __           __           0
Total Base-Line Cost        212.1                                  107.9
Contingencies                82.4                                   42.0
Total Project Cost          292..5                                 149.9          (51)



ANNTEX 9
Tnbl e 2
Pr,TTTS
DJTP)1 T, 1,7g,0P?4Ep ?ROJ~(fl
RST AT1 D   'F^o.VlY (IV 0e1PRA.TTV   ANT) .    IM rFTANTTr  nC0T3
Project                       Nu2mber of   Annuil      Tota1 knnui'  0o7itriblution by
Comnonent           Unit       Tnits        0 ^n  M    0  nd 4M Coms        Beneficilries
0ont. rner   (TS   '0 ooo   (ITS ,',00)        (M)
TTnit
T  T)irectly
Produ-t.iv^ b/
A 1.* T,<eto'^k
Tnfrn.stnrt-
tnlire      39:30 bhn     Inno      oino         1200                    100
2, Tr.17-
+ion        l1n,      30^).000                   19F0 ig9        1950             100
3.  Frit- Tro-
fctloi n           reZl,.
1,SoP. x.nj
l!n,ter con-
cer-rstion   bn,         91,000 nn                  0             10              mno
-                   e~~~~~. Beo^keonirg 5rt 1;P9   4!n          7e                                          100!5   n
P, Porestry
7                           7. 7  ^bh4n      ,o19
stornge                        l , 0 e                                 lon
H  1.  IP.-l .
P?o. vcti nn'4
3650            360            (1)
TT  Pr, n^tjV
9'mr',nrt,
Roads       kn.,        ,0                         60              -               0_
2.  7te
i_on        S+? f         l        1F.000       1900              -_               0
3.  Fakrmer
Organi-
zation      st'ff          67      12,Fon         750             __               0
! fsrkptinZ   7rnR u593
_tores       1!o       7.2550       290             290             0on
3300             290             (8)
TIT Other Inf ra-
1,  Th^e&1tSnt                           ,/ ?)31l0  2700              940              35
^   romS  F'tr          3. 0?       1730             :110               6
3.  F5ot;
3.  atoo-  'o00  nersong 170        r,100n       9,70             9n               100on
ormter    'noon rsn   ?7r          ?,?ee          10 100
e.  Self-bhpl n
?rnjec+s   villspr       ^-t7o 2!                  70              70              100
:. T  Pro-icf                                          59?e 2,2                           (43)
Adinistrn+t.i
__~~~~~~~~~~~1               I .. (Yo
Total ^osts ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(5o)
-~~~~~~~~-                                         o
Note-  1T,D. = not T'nnHc.lhl-  msgl=
h/ Fot di.rctrv oror"ctive          tu"ns.  nintenpnco onTh
Wi ln October lQ71, pri,ces



IBRD 11418
,q. AW      I.                                                                                                                                                                                                        A,0,rn,
T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ME    " UpM
'                                                                                                                                             CIBA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AYC
-30.                                                                                                                                                                                      SAL~~AD.R      ICAR'-GUA
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~AM
C-STA RIA 
0p                 S  O NOR  A                                                        rCN
C,                                       C~~~~~~~~~~~~- OA H U   L A'~'l 
PC         0                                   ' 
acifc                           I                                 Ci                                             ,  L  OD' N
Oceaon                                                               D l   PA N G
fZACATECAS             I IToALPA                                                         eX/C
MEXICO                          ~                           
POD  0S
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   NAZARIT  ' A,A 
MICRO  REGIONS                                                                                                                          I )CLIII  -p ''1Y UC A TA N
LOCATION  OF PROJECTS                                         J A LI S C 0                           ADALG~                                                                                           Is- /20oo
MAicro Regions and Their Climates                                                                                                                                                        -~TERR 10/S
d,  , AA.C-                                                                   QU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CINT-ANIA RCOOI
ARID                                               A-C< '.                                                  I
SEMI - ARID                               I-    0 MCHuAACAN   'PIlp
HUMID TROPICAL                                OLCIMAAA- 
I     W5          DRY TROPICAL                                                                    -.C                                                                       PCH '          /
TEMPERATE                                                                                                                      *,    AACt'-
TRANSITION                         /G UE PP R ER                                                                                                                               BEIZ
Ssoie Roudore~            TNANH5  AA   -                                                                                                     C                        BELIZ
ITO0   2UOu    300    400    550                                                                                                                                         GUATMAL
K OPRETERS                                                                                                                                             CA
iiio-                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-                                                     9cr              EL~~~~~~~~~~HN  VA
110'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ To                                                                       -'A'-'



