Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4617
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(LOAN 1110-ME)
June 30, 1983
Operations Evaluation Department                                               r
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                = 2.47 acres = 10,000 m2
1 kilometer (km)       2      = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )      = 0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)               = 2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                   = 0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton       = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BANAGRO             - National Bank for Agriculture and Livestock
BANRURAL            - National Rural Credit Bank
Banco Agricola      - National Bank for Agricultural Credit
Banco Ejidal        - National Bank for Ejidal Credit
CAPFCE              - Administrative Committee of the Federal
Program for Construction of Schools
CFE                 - Federal Commission for Electricity
CIDER               - Research Center for Rural Development
CNIZA               - Arid Zones Commission
CONAFRUT            - National Fruit Commission
CONASUPO            - National Company for Popular Subsistence
COPLAMAR            - Commission for Marginal Areas
CVC                 - Agreement for Coordination
Distritos de
Temporal         - Rainfed Agricultural Districts
EMECAFE             - Mexican Coffee Institute
FIRA                - Guarantee Fund for Development of Agriculture,
Livestock and Aviculture, Bank of Mexico
FOIR                - Fund for Rural Public Investment
IDB                 - Inter-American Development Bank
INI                - National Institute for Indian Affairs
INIA               - National Institute for Agricultural Affairs
INIP               - National Institute for Cattle Research
M&E                 - Monitoring and Evaluation
PIDER               - Investment Program for Rural Development
Presidencia         - Secretariat of the Presidency
SAG                 - Secretariat of Agriculture and Cattle
SAHOP               - Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public
Works
SARH                - Secretariat of Agricultural and Water
Resources
SRA                 - Secretariat of Land Reform
SSA                 - Secretariat of Health and Assistance
SPP                 - Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(LOAN 1110-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ....            ................................               ........................               i
Basic  Data  Sheet                    ...................................................                   iii
Highlights                 .........................................................                          iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.     SUMMARY          .................................................                              1
Formulation  and  Design  ........                ............................                  1
Implementation  .               ............................... ......... .                     3
Impact                ...................................................                       6
II.     MAIN  ISSUES  ...$                ...........................................                    8
A.   Controversy  Regarding  PIDER  Impact                     ...         .............        8
B.   Institutional  Issues  in  Design,
Implementation,  and  Evaluation  .....................                              10
C.   Emphasis  on  Productive  Investments  ....................                               17
D.   Extension  and Research  ................................                                23
E.   Participation  ........................................                                   26
F.   Credit  ...............................................                                   28
G.   Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ........................ .....                              30
H.   Rate  of  Return and  Other  Project  Criteria  ...                       .........       35
I.   Bank  Performance  .....................................                                 38
III.      CONCLUDING  REMARKS  ................................ ............                             39
Annex A  -  Government  Comments  ................................... .                                       41
PROJECT COMFLETION REPORT
I.     Introduction  .............................................                                    53
II.     Project  Identification,  Preparation  and Appraisal  ....                          ....        55
III.      Project  Description  and Appraisal  Estimates  ....                          ..........       59
IV.     Project  Implementation  ...................................                                    63
V.     Institutional  Development  and  Performance                            .................      75
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   Repeater Projects and Institutional Development
Since 1979  .......................0                               79
VII.   Bank Performance  ............ .......................                81
III.   Conclusions.                                                           85
ilap -11418R



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(LOAN 1110-ME)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Integrated Rural Development
Project (PIDER I) in Mexico, for which Loan 1110-ME in the amount of US$110.0
million was approved in May 1975.  The project was fully disbursed and closed
in August 1980, extended from the original Closing Date of December 1978.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report (PCR),
dated March 25, 1982.  The PCR was prepared by the Central Projects Depart-
ment, now the Operations Policy Staff, on the basis of a review of Bank
records, an ex-post evaluation of PIDER I carried out by'Government, and two
country visits in June and September 1981. The audit memorandum is based on a
review of the Appraisal Report (660a-ME) dated April 16, 1975, the President's
Report (P-1618-ME) of April 28, 1975, the Loan Agreement, dated May 22, 1975,
the 'Government's ex-post evaluation, and the PCR.   Correspondence with the
Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in rele-
vant Bank files have also been consulted, and Bank staff associated with the
project have been interviewed.    Several  relevant 'Government  and academic
studies were also reviewed.
An OED mission visited Mexico in July-August 1982.   Discussions
were held with current and past officials from the Investment Program for
Rural Development (PIDER), the Research Center for Rural Development (CIDER),
the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH), the Secretariat of
Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP), the Secretariat of Agricultural
Reform (SRA), the National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL), the Post-Graduate
Agricultural College, the National Fruit Commission (CONAFRUT), the Mexican
Coffee Institute (EMECAFE), the Commission for Marginal Areas (COPLAMAR), the
National Institute for Indigenes (INI), the Agricultural Trust Funds in the
Bank of Mexico (FIRA) and officials in the States of Yucatan, Quintana Roo,
Coahuila, Morelos, and Oaxaca, in which project sites were also visited.
Discussions were held with project beneficiaries, including sub-borrowers,
with other small farmers and agricultural workers, and with municipal author-
ities.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the'Government on January 18,
1983. Comments received from Government are attached as Annex A.
The audit finds the PCR generally accurate with respect to the
project's implementation, but differs with respect to the interpretation
and/or evaluation of several developments.   The audit memorandum summarizes
the project and discusses several principal issues important to rural develop-
ment projects.



- ii -
The valuable assistance provided by Gbvernment staff, as well as the
other individuals interviewed is gratefully acknowledged.   Their assistance
greatly contributed to this report.



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(LOAN 1110-ME)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                Actual or                  Actual as % of
Item                                            Estimate             Estimated Actual             Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Costs (US$ million)                             295.0                    257.0                           88
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                     110.0                    110.0                          100
Date Board Approval                                          05/08/75                 05/08/75
Date Effectiveness                                           08/29/75                 10/29/75
Date Physical Components Completed                            06/78                    12/79                          148/a
Closing Date                                                 12/31/78                 08/30/80                         150ja
Economic Rate of Return (%)/b                                  16/c                  marginal/d
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)                                     7.5.    49.2    89.9   110        110      110      110
Actual (US$ million)                                                -        21.2    33.6    49.5    72.5   103.5   110
Actual as % of estimate                                              -       43.0    37.4    45.0    65.9    94.0   100
Date of final disbursement: August 30, 1980
Principal repaid to 09/30/82:  US$5.94 million
MISSION DATA
Date     No. of   Mandays   Specializations  Performance                 Types of    Date of
Mission           (mo./Yr.)  Persons  in Field  Represented/e           Rating/f  Trend/g  Problems/h  Report
Preparation
Assistance           06-08/73       4                                                                -       09/73
Preparation
Assistance            11/73         4          -           -                  _         _            -      01/14/74
Pre-Appraisal           02/74          6                      -                 -                      -       03/11/74
Appraisal               04/74          2          -           -                  -         -           -       05/08/75
Follow-up Appraisal   12/74            3         27           -                  -         -           -           -
Supervision I           07/75         4         89            -                  1         2           -       09/11/75
Supervision II          03/76         1(3)/i    5(33)/i    -                     1         2           -      03/24/76/i
Supervision III         07/76         3         39            -                  2         2          F,M     09/10/76
Supervision IV          11/76         2         14            -                  2         2          F,M      11/25/76
Supervision V           04/77          1         10           -                  1         2           -       05/19/77
Supervision VI          07/77         2         2Q/           -                  1         2           -       07/29/77
Supervision VII         10/77         1           5i          -                 -         -            -       10/29/77k
Supervision VIII        12/77          4         44           -                  2         1          M,P      01/19/78
Supervision IX          06/78          2         26a          -                  1         2           M       07/20/78
Supervision X           12/78          3         364          -                  2         2          M,P      12/22/78
Supervision XI          05/79          5         50 5    R(2),SA,YP,E            2         2          M,P      06/25/79
Supervision XII         11/79          4         56L     SR,SA,R,S               2         2          M,P      12/17/79
Supervision XIII        06/80          1          8/5        E,R                 2         2          P,M      07/31/80
Subtotal:                                      456
Completion           06/81,09/81       1        28              E                     -         -                -
Total:                                         484
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                       NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.
Executing Agency                               SECRETARIA DE LA PRESIDENCIA
(Planning and Coordination of Implementation)
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                Mexican Dollar (Mex$)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                      US$ 1.00  - Mex$12.5
Intervening Years Average                   US$ 1.00  - Mex$20.9
Completion Year Average                     US$ 1.00  = Mex$23.0
Follow-on Projects:                            First                         Second
Follow-on Projects                         PIDER II                      PIDER III
Loan Number                                1462                          2043
Loan Amount (US$ million)                  120.0                         175.0
Loan Agreement Date                        07/05/77                      11/06/81
/a   Calculated from date of Board approval.
7W   Incremental Economic Rates of Return calculated for a sample of fifteen microregions.
7W   Estimate was 12X when labor shadow-priced at 100% of official minimum wage.
/d   See PPAM, paras. 53-58 and PCR, paras. 4.19-4.21.
7e   R - Rural Development Specialist; SA - Senior Agricultural Advisor; YP - Young Professional; E = Economist
(Consultant); SR - Senior Rural Development Specialist; S - Sociologist (Consultant).
/f   1 - problem-free or minor problems; 2   moderate problems; and 3 = major problems.
7g   1 - improving; 2 - stationary; and 3   deteriorating.
7T    F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - political; and 0 - other.
7i   Report on two missions combined.
/j   Missions combined supervisions of PIDER I and preparation, appraisal (and, after 07/77 supervisions)
of PIDER II. 1979 missions included preparation of PIDER, III.
/k   Back-to-Office Report.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(LOAN 1110-ME)
HIGHLIGHTS
Faced with massive, complex rural problems, the Government initiated
major new institutions and investment programs in the early 1970's, including
a Program for Rural Development Investments (PIDER) which was to channel
coordinated multisectoral investment packages to benefit rural poor in
selected microregions.   PIDER provided funds to existing federal agencies
operating in rural areas, seeking to strengthen their actions through PIDER's
coordination and supervision.  Efforts were to be made to gradually decentra-
lize planning and execution to state and local levels, and to achieve growing
beneficiary participation.
The project financed investments in 30 new PIDER microregions and
introduced a number of institutional and programmatic innovations to the
existing PIDER program, principally an emphasis on productive investments.
Project funds financed investments in irrigation, livestock, soil and water
conservation, and fruit, complemented by other investments in rural roads,
rural electrification, primary schools, health centers, and drinking water
systems.   Support activities like farmer organization, agricultural extension
and applied research, and marketing were also strengthened.   Provision was
made for a component to monitor and evaluate PIDER's implementation and field
impact. The project was one of the Bank's earliest and most ambitious efforts
at integrated rural development.
Points of interest are:
-    PIDER  is  controversial  as  there is some disagreement  regarding
its achievements and the relative weights to be given in evaluation
to different types of achievements (PPAM, paras. 27-30);
-    disbursements were complete after an 18 months extension of closing
and, for each investment category, close to those projected at
appraisal (PPAM, para. 9; PCR, para. 4.01);
-    PIDER brought  considerable  benefit  to its  target group.   Roads
improved communication to previously isolated areas, electricity
brought lights, refrigeration, TV and powered motors, drinking water
eased household work and improved health, and productive invest-
ments, especially small scale irrigation projects, increased incomes
and employment.  Poor farmers frequently benefitted from productive
investments even when economic benefits were low because investments
were heavily subsidized (PPAM, paras. 10, 19-21, 26; PCR, paras.
4.14-4.18);



v 
Government impatience to achieve impact, which led to geographic
expansion of overall PIDER activities and to rapid implementation of
physical works, and a focus on distributional transfers, resulted in
insufficient attention to cost effectiveness.   The Bank probably
cautioned 'Government too little in this respect (PPAM, paras.
49-51; PCR, paras. 7.02-7.04);
investment performance is highly variable.   A disappointingly
high proportion has low economic returns. Better success was
obtained with social and productive support investments than with
productive investments.   Efforts to rehabilitate problem projects
are having increased effect (PPAM, paras. 11, 19-20, 59-62; PCR,
para. 4.20);
resistance by implementing agencies to PIDER interference in their
activities was intense, making the effort to work through existing
agencies more difficult and, in the short run, less positive.   A
transfer of planning and execution to the state level, under growing
authority of the'Governor, is improving coordination (PPAM, paras.
45, 99, 101; PCR, paras. 5.01, 5.03-5.07);
PIDER planning, coordination, and implementing capacity initially
was very weak.   The project was expected and did contribute to
important institutional changes, including increased interagency
coordination, devolution of authority to and increased administra-
tive capacity at the state and local levels, and improved planning
procedures.   These changes should continue to lead to project
improvements, but use of large expenditures to bring about institu-
tional change raises questions of efficiency (PPAM, paras. 45, 53,
54; PCR, paras. 5.01-5.06, 8.01);
emphasis on productive investments was important in the long run to
the rural development strategy, but at appraisal, Mexico did not
have either the technological or institutional base essential to
their  successful  implementation.    Technological,  managerial  and
marketing problems reduced operating returns. 'Greater attention to
phasing, with a more explicitly experimental approach prior to the
large-scale expansion of the productive investment component, might
have produced better results (PPAM, paras. 55-57, Section III);
integrated rural developments have wider political dimensions than
other agricultural  projects.   These dimentions are an important
source of'Governmental support, but also introduce potential alloca-
tional distortions (PPAM, paras. 63, 109, 83);
greater emphasis was needed on human as opposed to physical invest-
ment, including farmer training and development'of effective commun-
ity participation. Farmer organization and community participation
was limited by organizational weakness in the responsible agencies,
political hesitancy, and difficult socio-economic factors at the
community level. Increasing resources are being devoted to achiev-
ing participation, but the process is slow and more emphasis is
merited (PPAM, paras. 61 (g), 92, 94, 74-78; PCR, para. 7.04);



- vi -
poor technical assistance contributed to reduced returns on produc-
tive investments.   Provisions at appraisal to strengthen extension
were  inadequate.    Extension  service  organization  remained  poor
throughout the project and extension agents were often poorly
qualified  to work with  small-scale  farmers.   Government is now
increasing attention to small farmer rainfed applied research and
extension (PPAM, paras. 15, 64-73; PCR, paras. 4.07, 4.08);
credit  was  inadequately  coordinated  with  productive  investments
(PPAM, paras. 79-84; PCR, paras. 4.09, 4.10);
a useful first step at monitoring and evaluation was taken, but this
component did not lead to the systematic identification and improve-
ment of problems expected.  Institutional tensions constrained both
the evaluation process and use of the results obtained, and some
identified shortcomings implied major changes in PIDER's approach
for which political mandate was unclear (PCR, paras. 5.08-5.11);
the ERR, as conventionally calculated, is probably very low.   It
is a difficult judgement whether inclusion of the substantial
intangible benefits (e.g., distributive, institutional, learning,
and political) associated with the project would raise the project's
summary ranking to an acceptable level (PCR, paras. 4.19-4.21);
Bank assistance was  largely motivated  by a desire to encourage
the PIDER effort, given the priority assigned its target group, the
belief that it could help with PIDER-s conceptual and institutional
development, and the desire to develop new programmatic approaches
toward rural development.   Such support was probably merited, but
development of more practicable procedures to treat such benefits
during project design, implementation and evaluation might yield
superior results (PCR, paras. 2.01, 2.09-2.11, 7.02, 7.11).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
MEXICO - INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER I)
(L OAN 1110-NE)
I. SUMMARY
Formulation and Design
1.        Mexico faced massive, complex rural problems in the early 1970's:
poverty and unemployment affected much of the rural population, particularly
that living in rainfed agricultural areas, rural infrastructure and social
services were lacking, the agricultural growth rate was declining, food
imports were rising, and rural to urban migration was high, causing urban
congestion. After decades of inactivity, the Government placed high priority
on the resolution of these problems.   Major new institutions and investment
programs were proposed, including a Program for Rural Development Investments
(PIDER) in 1973.   PIDER, located in the Secretariat of the Presidency (Pre-
sidencia), was to channel coordinated and multisectoral investment packages
to benefit rural poor in selected microregions.   PIDER did not implement
directly; it provided funds to finance investments carried out by 14 existing
federal and state agencies operating in rural areas, which would work under
PIDER-s coordination and supervision.
2.        In 1973-74, the 'Government invested US$133 million to initiate the
development of 45 microregions.   It planned to open an additional 55 micro-
regions before 1976.  The expected cost of the total investments planned for
the 100 microregions during 1975-78 was US$1.1 billion. To help finance 30 of
the new microregions, the Bank approved the Integrated Rural Development
Project - PIDER (Loan 1110-ME, US$110 million)../ The total expected project
cost was US$295 million.
3.        The project's principal emphasis was on productive investments.  To
improve income distribution and make the investments financially viable, their
basic infrastructure (about two thirds of total productive investment cost)
was to be provided free through public grants to collective groups of small
farmers, usually ejidatarios.21   Infrastructure was to be created in irri-
gation, livestock, soil and water conservation, and fruit production and
1/   The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)  provided parallel financing
(Loan 293/OC, US$20 million, signed on January 30, 1976) to help finance
15 other new regions.
2/   The ejido is the tenancy form under which land distributed under agrarian
reform legislation is assigned.   The beneficiaries,  ejidatarios, have
lifelong, hereditary, usufruct rights to ejido land. Although theoreti-
cally a collective organization, ejidatarios often work their land
individually or form productive groups including only a fraction of the
ejido membership.



-2-
ot'her minor categories.  Investments complementary to the infrastructure were
then to be financed by development credits, channeled through the existing
agricultural credit system.  Beneficiaries were expected to contribute addi-
tiDnal labor and materials equal to 10% of investment cost.  Prior analysis
was to ensure the economic viability of each subproject, in its entirety.
4.        The project also provided for activities and investments in support
of the productive investments (farmer organizations, agricultural extension
and demonstration, marketing, rural roads and rural electrification), and for
basic social infrastructure (classroom construction, health centers, water
systems and community assistance programs). Effectiveness was conditional on
the submission by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) of an
IBRD approved plan for the provision of extension assistance to PIDER micro-
regions.  Although not financed with project funds, a semi-autonomous Center
for Research in Rural Development (CIDER) was established in December 1974 to
evaluate PIDER's implementation and field level impact and, through formal
feedback, contribute to improved project actions.
5.        The project was prepared by'Government, with substantial Bank
assistance, during 1973 and 1974.   It was appraised in June/July 1974; two
follow-up appraisal missions visited Mexico in December 1974 and March 1975.
The loan was negotiated in April 1975, approved and signed in May 1975, and
became effective in October 1975.   The loan was closed fully disbursed on
September 30, 1980.
6.        The PIDER I project was expected to benefit approximately 1.0
million persons over three years; 120,000 families (750,000 persons) were
projected to increase their incomes from US$420 to US$1,160 by 1983 and
350,000 persons (some overlap was expected) were to have access to improved
rural infrastructure by 1979.1/   The project was expected to create 84,000
man years of temporary employment during the construction phase and 30,000
pe:rmanent jobs.  The main production increases were expected in corn, beans,
beef, and fruits and vegetables, of which half was to be marketed and half
consumed on-farm. Fifteen microregions plans were completed at appraisal; the
remaining 15 were to be submitted for IBRD approval prior to disbursement
aulthorization. Economic rates of return varying from 11% to 23% (average 16%)
were estimated at appraisal for six microregion investment packages expected
to be representative of the whole 30 microregion project.
7.        PIDER  included  innovative institutional  features:    (i)  reliance
on existing agencies for execution, with emphasis on redirecting them toward
more effective actions; (ii) use of coordinating committees (both federal and
state level) composed of staff from PIDER and the participating agencies to
program and execute PIDER investments; (iii) efforts to decentralize planning
1/   Appraisal Report No.  660a-ME,  dated April 16, 1975, Annex 8, Table 1
(Micro-Region Summary Analysis).   The appraisal report indicates these
increases were to be achieved with an investment per capita of only
US$197.00.   The appraisal figures appear sometimes internally inconsis-
tent.



- 3 -
and execution to state and local levels, and to achieve significant bene-
ficiary participation; (iv) a poverty oriented focus on target groups in
specific regions; and (v) efforts to increase returns by use of integrated
investment packages.
8.        Prior to Bank involvement, PIDER focused on providing rural (espe-
cially  social)  infrastructure  through public  grants.   The Bank suggested
several changes in design for PIDER I: (i) emphasis on productive investments
to achieve self-sustained rural development; (ii) strengthening several weak
agencies providing support services (organization, agricultural applied
research and extension) essential to the productive investments; (iii) greater
cost recovery to reduce fiscal drain; and (iv) inclusion of credit at the
planning and execution stage to improve productive investment technical design
(due to skills of and technical criteria emphasized by credit agency staff),
and increased cost recovery and beneficiary participation.   All of these
features were accepted by the 'Government and were subsequently incorporated
into PIDER's operations in other regions.
Implementation
9.        The project began about six months later than expected.   Subse-
quently,  the disbursement rate lagged about  40% behind that projected at
appraisal both because authorized expenditures by 'Government were lower than
expected and because actual investments were below authorized expenditures.
Authorized expenditures were lower because part of PIDER's budget was directed
toward the opening of additional microregions outside PIDER I, and because of
national economic difficulties and a change of government in 1976/77. Actual
investments fell behind authorized expenditures because:   (i) PIDER's staff
was unable to adequately program microregion investments, especially those
requiring specific feasibility studies;' (ii) delays occurred each year in
PIDER budget authorizations due to government procedures (because funds could
not be carried from one year to the next, delays greatly shortened the
effective work year); and (iii) key implementing agencies were organiza-
tionally weak, had insufficient implementing capacity, and/or resisted PIDER-s
initiatives for bureaucratic reasons.   Total disbursements in mid-1978 were
45% the level projected at appraisal. A decision was therefore made to extend
the Closing Date by 18 months.   This extension was sufficient to permit full
disbursement.   At closing,  disbursements for each investment category were
close to that projected at appraisal.
10.       The investments completed are set out in PCR, Table 4.2.  Principal
investments include 687 irrigation projects (averaging 70 ha), 372 fruit
projects (averaging 22 ha), 276 cattle projects (averaging 228 animals), 277
soil and water conservation projects (averaging 822 ha), 658 rural roads
projects (averaging 7.3 km), 583 rural electrification projects (averaging 2
km), 303 health centers, 1,005 primary school classrooms, and 793 drinking
water  systems.   Other investments,  sometimes complementary, were financed
through development credit provided to microregion borrowers (PPAM, paras.
79-84).



- 4 -
11.       The project was less successful in ensuring that the investments
constructed were as productive as expected than it was at physical implementa-
tion.   Due to planning,  coordination, and budget problems, and to agency/
contractor inefficiency, works were sometimes of substandard quality or
incomplete in some fundamental aspect, and many were initiated and/or redone
several times.   There is insufficient  information on the total 'Government
funds assigned to individual projects, and on the detailed specification of
the works completed, to determine precisely the impact of these problems on
unit costs, but unit costs frequently exceeded appraisal forecasts.
12.       Important institutional changes occurred during the project.   At
appraisal,  PIDER planning and coordination were highly centralized.   PIDER
central staff was small and relatively inexperienced. Government administra-
tive capacity in the microregions was limited.   Few federal agencies had
significant activities in these regions and little working interaction with
each other.   PIDER central staff had to work on the basis of quick fact-
finding trips to the microregions, with little local backup.   Planning was
thus carried out on the basis of insufficient information regarding available
resources or community priorities, and many implementation problems could not
readily be perceived or resolved. PIDER also had little legitimacy to coordi-
nate or intervene in the activities of the existing federal agencies.
13.       As a result of the problems faced, Presidencia (PIDER) continually
pressed for expanded and more decentralized operating procedures; substantial
progress was made in this regard.  Coordinating committees containing PIDER
sta:Ef and federal agencies' representatives were first established at both the
central and state levels; these committees functioned poorly at first, but
steadily improved with time.  Presidencia was replaced by the Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting (SPP) in late 1976 and given expanded functions and
powers, including coordinating authority for all federal agencies operating in
rural areas. SPP progressively decentralized its operations. Parallel
strengthening and decentralization occurred in the participating federal
agencies. The state'Governors were involved increasingly in PIDER in order to
gain their support and authority. PIDER-s experience then contributed impor-
tantly to a wider shift in responsibilities for the planning and execution
of rural investments, including PIDER, from the Federal 'Government to the
staltes.11 State administrative capacity was augmented.
14.       Although  SPP  central  level  staff  still  maintain  responsibility
for PIDER-s overall project guidelines, monitoring and evaluation, the state
governors now control investment coordination and implementation (this is the
case for an increasing amount of all public investment in rural areas). The
SPP state delegate and his staff act as a technical secretariat in support of
the 'Governor, and provide liaison with central SPP.  Increased state control
promoted greater sensitivity to local needs and improved coordination among
parl:icipating agencies (because of the authority which 'Governors can bring
upoII the latter), but probably strengthened the weight of political criteria
in investment selection.
1/   The  administrative  disruptions  associated  with  institutional  change
sometimes impeded implementation in the short run.



- 5 -
15.       PIDER had some success at fostering interagercy coordination,
but most agencies successfully resisted efforts by PIDER to directly inter-
vene in their activities.  It was an important element of project design that
PIDER would be able to control and strengthen the actions of participating
agencies.  Its inability to do so was a persistent obstacle to obtaining the
desired field results.   The influence of the state governors is expected to
lead to improvements in this area; in addition, most implementing agencies are
improving their program activities with experience.
16.       At appraisal, the Secretariat for Land Reform (SRA) was given
responsibility for achieving farmer organization and beneficiary partici-
pation. The SRA was institutionally weak and the provisions to strengthen it
with project funds largely failed. PIDER turned increasingly to its own staff
and to that of the implementing and credit agencies to organize farmers to
help identify and design project investments, to seek complementary credit,
and to operate collectively the completed investments.  Although such efforts
were positive, they were too limited in scope to achieve the degree of farmer
organization and participation required for best results. However, the
experience obtained and, particularly, the emerging consensus that achieving
democratic beneficiary participation is essential to rural development
efforts, could be one of PIDER's most positive achievements.
17.       Primary responsibility for agricultural applied research and
extension was given to the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock, now the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH). Many of the
technical packages utilized proved inadequate.  Agricultural extension, both
on rainfed crops and on specific productive investments, also was less effec-
tive than envisioned at appraisal.   Partly as a result of PIDER experience,
Government is placing greater emphasis on research and extension for small-
scale farmers in rainfed areas.   With Bank support, SARH is now developing
rainfed agricultural districts to coordinate agricultural activities. In many
areas SARH is assuming basic responsibility for planning PIDER productive
investments.
18.       PIDER's  innovative  character  required  substantial  "learning  by
doing" for success.   Inclusion of a formal monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
component was an important instrument to achieve this.  The component set an
important precedent, and provided for reasonably accurate control over
expenditures, but fell well short of expectations in providing feedback on
program effectiveness. The M&E component was divided into two parts. PIDER's
monitoring activities focused on disbursements rather than on its investments'
operational success.   CIDER conducted some insightful studies in which it
forthrightly identified serious field level problems, but was unable to
complete representative studies of project impact. Inter-institutional
tension, both between PIDER and CIDER, and between PIDER and the implementing
agencies, was an obstacle in the evaluation process. CIDER no longer directly
evaluates PIDER, which is expanding its own monitoring and evaluation capacity
with Bank assistance under PIDER III.



-6-
Impact
19.       Detailed and comprehensive information on the impact of specific
project investments is lacking.   This is a major project failing as it is
impossible to assess precisely project successes and failures, and their
causes. Information available indicates, however, that despite some outstand-
ing project successes, overall PIDER I economic benefits appear well below
those projected at appraisal. (No systematic variation in PIDER operation or
impact is apparent across microregions by source of finance, i.e., domestic,
IB]D, or IDB.) The audit believes that the ERR, as conventionally calculated,
is disappointingly low (PPAM, paras. 102-104).  It is a difficult judgement
wheather the intangible benefits achieved (political, institutional, distribu-
tional, and learning are sufficient to raise the project-s summary ranking to
an acceptable level.1'
20.       Project economic results were highly variable, both across invest-
ment categories and across microregions.  Results depend on PIDER and imple-
menting staff quality, which vary considerably across microregions, and on the
mizroregion resource base.  Political pressures to expand PIDER coverage to a
wider number of beneficiaries resulted in the selection of some microregions
with little  productive potential.   Within microregions,  investments were
sometimes spread thinly and uncoordinated so that the potential benefits from
"integration" were lost, but successful integration demonstrated the positive
interaction expected. Consistently better technical success was achieved with
the productive support investments, such as rural roads and rural electrifica-
tion, than with productive investments. Roads offered communication to
previously isolated villages and sometimes opened important regions to produc-
tion. But their total benefits depended to a significant extent on the
success of the productive investments supported. Coordination, design,
conistruction, and operating difficulties persistently affected the productive
investments. About 25% of the productive investments still are not operating,
soae because of long gestation, but many for technical problems.  Of those
operating, a high proportion have low economic returns due to delayed start-
up, higher than expected unit investment and operating costs, and lower than
expected production levels and operating life. They have nonetheless brought
benefits and, frequently, identified investment opportunities.   Investments
worked best when they required skills similar to those already possessed by
beneficiaries, and where beneficiary skill levels (education) were higher.
The social investments show mixed results.   School classrooms and health
facilities offered much improved infrastructure, but their benefit depended
importantly on their staffing.   Drinking water systems were successfully
constructed, but maintenance is a serious problem in about one third of the
communities.
21.       Of  the  productive  investments,  irrigation  development  provided
the highest returns and greatest permanent employment.   Water was highly
comLplementary to existing resources and skills, and investments often resulted
1/   The ~Government believes that the intangible benefits achieved offset all
costs and make the project highly attractive. See the attached comments
on the draft PPAM, Annex A.



in substantial income increase.   Usually farmers used irrigation for crops
with which they were already familiar, e.g., corn, vegetables, melons, but the
potential for higher profits is resulting in more efficient application and
selection of higher-value crops.   Water development was often essential to
livestock and orchard investments, and also resulted in improved drinking
water supplies.   The identification of groundwater resources brought great
benefit to some areas.   However, irrigation investments were sometimes left
incomplete due to poor investment coordination, wells were drilled which
produced insufficient water to justify economically the distribution works
which had been constructed previously, water pumps failed from manufacturing
error or improper use, and beneficiaries sometimes lacked the experience and
training in both irrigation and cropping techniques to achieve their invest-
ment's potential.
22.       Other  types of productive investments  were  less successful.   A
high proportion of livestock investments (beef, dairy, pigs and poultry) were
uneconomic due to faulty design, producer inexperience, inadequate technical
assistance, social conflict, and marketing difficulties.   Such investments
were sometimes used to provide assistance to communities suffering from severe
resource constraints, sometimes without sufficient concern for economic
viability.  The least successful were beef cattle investments.  The technical
coefficients achieved were low except where intensive technical assistance was
provided, a practice which became more prevalent after 1978. Investment costs
were much higher than expected.   Long project gestation and low income re-
sulted in loss of beneficiary interest.   Dairy investments  required more
sophisticated management, and posed even greater risk, but provided more
employment and a constant income flow when successful. Pig and poultry
enterprises were highly dependent on good management; after initial failures,
such enterprises have proved successful where substantial external assistance
is provided in terms of production, marketing, financial and accounting
controls.   PIDER has worked to organize individual production units into
regional unions which can provide these services and become self-sufficient.
23.       Orchard investments are mixed.  In some areas, their encouragement
has resulted in substantial regional growth.   But many orchard investments
suffered from poor design, including improper choice of species. In others, a
significant proportion of planted trees were lost from lack of producer care
during the dry season, due largely to their need to seek alternative income
sources while the trees are still gestating.  In one region, after initially
emphasizing orchard investments, PIDER decided to forego such projects until
other investments could build up a viable income base permitting year round
beneficiary residence. Orchards worked well in other areas when complemented
by investments which produced income immediately.   Fruit producers commonly
lacked skills needed to achieve high quality fruit output, and suffered from
marketing problems, but coffee investments worked well where these served to
rehabilitate already existing plantations.
24.       Many of the soil and water conservation projects were poorly de-
signed, having little or no production impact, while others were badly damaged
after completion when beneficiaries, who failed to understand their im-
portance, did not provide maintenance. Investments sometimes were constructed



-8-
in isolation, with no account for watershed planning.   Worse results were
achieved with terrace and border construction, gully dams, and catchment
basins. Reforestation was insufficiently extensive to have significant
impact.   Subsoiling and destoning successfully converted pasture into crop
land in some large areas, resulting in significant increases in incomes and
employment, but was sometimes misapplied.
25.       The project apparently achieved little effective transfer of new
rainfed agricultural techniques or productive inputs, so the expected major
benefits in this category (Appraisal Report, paras. 5.01 and 5.05) did not
materialize.
26.       The project had a positive impact through numerous intangible
benefits.   PIDER I was designed to improve Mexico's income distribution and
many poor farmers did benefit from project investments.  This often occurred
even when economic returns were low, because investments were heavily sub-
sidized.   PIDER also attempted to change images, particularly those held by
rural inhabitants about the'Government's commitment to this sector; to change
attitudes, particularly those held by Government officials and staff about the
importance and potential of PIDER's target group; and also to develop insti-
tutional strategies and capabilities, particularly in federal agencies and
State 'Governments.   The project did affect positively, in varying degree,
these goals.  Substantial learning about rural development also has occurred
and many of the problems identified in PIDER I are being alleviated under
PIDER II and PIDER III. Investment design and ex-ante economic analysis have
been improved, construction standards are higher and agency actions are better
coordinated.   Greater attention is given to beneficiary priorities and to
farmer organization, and technical assistance has been somewhat improved.  A
number of innovational strategies have been developed at the microregion and
state level to fit local conditions.   These accomplishments should bring
improved results.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Controversy Regarding PIDER Impact
27.       PIDER I, which was a large,  ambitious,  innovative,  and complex
project, is a subject of controversy both in Mexico and within the Bank. Some
describe it as a path-breaking effort to introduce socio-economic development
to Mexico's poor rural regions and, in the process, initiate improvements in
Government agency performance and obtain knowledge regarding rural development
strategy. 'Others view PIDER I as an inefficient public works program whose
"top-down" efforts to achieve quick resource transfers led to disappointing
field impact and too little systematized knowledge or system building. It was
probably, perhaps of necessity, somewhat of both.  It is difficult in evalua-
tion to determine the proper emphasis on each aspect because there is dis-
agreement regarding PIDER I's actual achievements and the relative weights to
be given to different types of achievements.



28.       Two principal controversies regarding PIDER I are: (1) how success-
ful was it in terms of actual field impact, and (2) assuming that it was less
successful than anticipated in this regard, were its achievements in other
respects sufficient to justify the approach taken?   The latter issue turns
partly on whether there was sufficient learning and institutional development
during implementation to permit a successful field impact to be achieved
through the follow-up projects, PIDER II and III, but other broader achieve-
ments, including those of a distributional and political nature, require
consideration.   The'Government also placed a premium on rapid action and the
Bank implicitly accepted this judgement.
29.       The audit focuses primarily on PIDER I's field impact.   As ap-
praised, this impact was the project's primary goal.  This impact is the only
standard of achievement which can be tangibly measured.   Because there is
controversy regarding the nature of field impact, it is important to clarify
this to the extent possible.  Without this measure it is impossible to under-
stand the tradeoff between the project's size and pace of implementation and
its cost effectiveness.   Evaluation of the field impact is also the best
source of lessons about how to improve rural development efforts.
30.       The audit concludes that PIDER I's field impact was substantially
less than expected at appraisal.  The facts and the reasoning underlying this
conclusion are presented and discussed in sections C-G. Were PIDER I's field
impact the only criterion of success or failure, the audit believes that the
results would be disappointing.   The PCR and the Government disagree, be-
lieving that PIDER I's field impact was short of expectations, but higher than
estimated by the audit.l/
31.       PIDER I is associated with numerous institutional developments and
other intangible accomplishments.   Efforts during PIDER I to bring about
institutional  change were  particularly notable.   Measure of these insti-
tutional developments is necessarily subjective. This does not make them less
real.   To the extent that institutional change was directly related to the
ability to achieve the desired field level impact, the benefits will become
more clear when the results of PIDER II and III can be compared with those of
PIDER I.   To the extent that the effect of institutional change transcends
that dimension, other indicators are required, but are more difficult to
obtain.
32.       The audit is concerned that the field impact of PIDER I is suffi-
ciently poor that the ability of other benefits to compensate is questionable.
It therefore suggests that another development strategy might have resulted in
an improved return on project resources.   This is discussed in Section B.
Both the Latin American Agricultural Projects Department and the 'Government
1/   See PCR, paras. 4.19-4.21, and the'Government's comments (especially page
2) on the draft PPAM which are included as Annex A of this report.



- 10 -
agiain disagree.-' They believe that the benefits stemming from PIDER's
institutional impact raise the project's summary ranking to a clearly accept-
ab:Le level and that the strategy adopted was appropriate.  This disagreement
may be based, in part, on different expectations regarding what PIDER was to
achieve.
33.       A full evaluation of PIDER I would require substantially more time
and resources, including a much improved data base, than is now available.
The audit therefore attempts to lay out the principal issues which merit
discussion, draw those conclusions regarding PIDER I's impact which seem
indicated by the information available, and also point to the value of further
study.   The audit memorandum proceeds as follows.   Section B discusses the
unusual need during PIDER I for a focus on the institutional system which was
to implement project investments. This discussion seeks to provide a broader
perspective on the tradeoffs faced between use of the institutional system to
achieve a viable project, and use of the project to achieve improved insti-
tul-ional functioning. The tension between means and ends was a source of both
strength and weakness throughout the project.  Section C evaluates the impact
of the productive investments which comprised the bulk of PIDER I expenditures
and which were expected to carry economically the rest of the project.
Sections D-F deal with agricultural applied research and extension, farmer
organization and beneficiary participation, and agricultural credit, all of
wh:ich were importantly linked to the success or failure of the productive
investments. Section'G considers the performance of the monitoring and
evaluation component which was to institutionalize feedback and formalize
project learning, Section H estimates the project rate of return, Section I
discusses Bank performance, and Section III contains concluding remarks.
B.   Institutional Issues in Design, Implementation and Evaluation
1
34.       As noted in the summary and in the PCR (sections V and VI), PIDER
I was both an actor in and a contributor to a number of important shifts in
the system of public administration.   PIDER I also resulted in substantial
learning regarding program approaches for rural development, and many'Govern-
ment and Bank staff gained valuable experience which should pay future divi-
dends.  The accomplishments mentioned are substantial.   The audit finds it
diEficult, however, to place a value upon these accomplishments, partly
because it is still unclear to what extent these will permit implementation of
a cost-effective rural development program in the future, and partly because
it is difficult to determine how much of the total accomplishments of PIDER
can be attributed to PIDER I.2/ Nonetheless, an exclusive focus on the
cost-effectiveness of PIDER I's field impact is surely incorrect.  PIDER was
I/   See especially the'Government's comments, Annex A, page 1.
2/   Two useful studies which discuss PIDER's role in administrative reorgani-
zations are:   Eric J. Miller,  "PIDER:  Institutional and Political
Developments  in Mexico:  1970-80,"   The Tavistock Institute of Human
Relations, London, 1980, and Merilee S. Grindle, "Official Interpreta-
tions of Rural Underdevelopment: Mexico in the 1970's," Working Papers in
U.S.-Mexican Studies, 20, University of California, San Diego, 1981.



- 11 -
initiated to engineer a major shift in Government agency priorities and
capabilities in a short period of time.   Bank support for PIDER I was par-
tially predicated on this effort.   Seen from a broad perspective of develop-
ment administration, it can be argued that it was impossible to bring about a
rapid shift without some cost in initial efficiency. The question is one of a
tradeoff.
35.       The issue of institution building arose in early 1973 when a Bank
mission visited Mexico to review new Government initiatives in rural develop-
ment and to identify potential projects for Bank support. The mission, noting
the tremendous domestic pressure for action and also the commitment of the
new administration, recommended that the Bank become involved either in the
rural roads program or in the integrated rural development program (PIDER).
The mission offered three caveats:   (a) Bank involvement was high risk given
the weak Mexican institutional structure in rural development; (b) a large
Bank staff input would be required, if this could not be provided it would be
better not to get involved; (c) assistance to marginal areas was important,
but was likely to provide only an interim and partial solution for rural
poverty--longer-term solutions probably required agricultural and industrial
development in other areas, population shifts, and a reduction in population
growth.   The mission concluded that the Bank-s most useful role might be
assistance with the conceptual approach to be used (e.g., greater emphasis on
achieving farm production gains), and with institution building. The mission
also noted that the appraisal justification criteria for such a project would
require thought.l/
36.        The Government and the Bank preferred that Bank support be for the
integrated rural development program. Preparation began with a review of the
Government's plans for the latter.   The issues raised by the identification
mission soon were brought to the fore 'again.  All preparation staff favored
support for rural development, but representatives from the Latin America and
Caribbean Agricultural Projects Staff were concerned that the strategy being
adopted by Government was infeasible. They argued that PIDER-s proposed size
and pace of implementation was highly optimistic given the expected obstacles.
These obstacles included the difficulty of coordinating powerful and largely
independent Federal agencies who were unlikely to submit easily to PIDER's
intervention, the lack of baseline data on microregions which would make
planning difficult, the inadequacy of technological knowledge for implementing
effective investments throughout Mexico's diverse ecological and agricultural
structure, the problems faced in achieving effective participation from poor
peasants who were likely to be skeptical of'Government efforts given previous
experience, and the possibility that pressures would be great to allocate
resources on the basis of political rather than economic criteria.   These
staff suggested that the Bank discuss with Government the full implications of
such a large and complex undertak ng, and proposed instead a smaller and more
explicitly experimental project.V
1/   Internal Bank memorandum dated February 23, 1973.
2/   These  issues were discussed in internal Bank memoranda dated May 17
and September 21, 1973.



- 12 -
37.       A follow-up preparation mission discussed with Government the
alternatives for Bank assistance, including a smaller, more experimental
project.   Six options were then formally presented to the Bank.'/  The
options ranged from relatively unqualified program support for PIDER (pre-
ferred by the Government), to more conditional support for PIDER, to direct
support (without PIDER involvement) for several implementing agencies.   The
latt:er, sector financing, was a variant of the Bank's traditional practice.
It seemed the easiest approach, as the Bank would be working with known
agencies, but was expected to work against the coordination sought through
PIDER.  In turn, the program approach was considered inadvisable because the
PIDER microregion documents which had been presented to the Bank were judged
inadequate to justify foregoing the usual requirements of appraisal and
supervision.
38.       Among the alternatives involving more qualified support for PIDER
were a smaller project to develop a number of contiguous microregions and a
larger project supporting a number of microregions dispersed throughout Mexico
and chosen to be representative of Mexico's diverse agricultural structure.
The preparation mission argued against the former; it noted that the Bank was
already supporting other regional development projects in Mexico, so that such
a project would be less innovative, and that a regional project conceived
within PIDER would require nearly as great a Bank effort toward institutional
coordination and technological development as would more general support for
PIDER, but would benefit a more limited area.  Both arguments were reasonble.
However, the audit notes that a subtle but important change had taken place in
the formulation of the smaller, experimental project recommended earlier. The
regional project considered was no longer presented as an effort to scale down
Goviernment efforts to a more manageable size, nor as an effort to develop
specific microtechnologies prior to widespread implementation of investments;
it was simply a geographically limited project which was perceived to have
less chance of impact on PIDER-s overall operation.
39.       Why was this change introduced?  The audit does not know that there
was a conscious choice, but it is clear that the Bank wanted to support PIDER
for a number of reasons which transcended the narrow impact expected from the
invesstments financed. These reasons, mentioned in internal Bank memoranda and
by staff interviewed by the audit mission, included:
(a) previous Mexican policy had largely ignored the rural poor and
creation of PIDER was considered an important change in government
policy.   PIDER's target groups were assigned high priority, and
PIDER was expected to have important institutional and, perhaps,
political impact.
(b) the Echeverria administration was to end in late 1976, and thus had
little time to establish PIDER as a permanent program.   The Bank
believed broader support might encourage future administrations to
continue PIDER.
11   See the mission-s report, dated January 14, 1974.



- 13 -
(c) the Bank-s president had recently spoken in his 1972 Nairobi
address of the need for poverty-oriented rural development programs
and a new Bank department for agricultural and rural development had
just been established to assist in such efforts. The Bank was eager
to see new program efforts developed, noted the'Government's commit-
ment, and was willing to contribute substantial resources of its
own.
(d) the Government had already initiated PIDER and indicated its
determination to proceed rapidly.   The Bank believed that it
could significantly increase the return obtained on funds invested
by suggesting more efficient and effective program approaches.
The Bank feared that Government would be less interested in its
participation and/or receptive to its ideas if the Bank opted for a
smaller or more geographically limited project.
40.       It appears that the Bank opted in favor of a large, dispersed
project to maximize Bank exposure to PIDER, believing that this would best
encourage the overall PIDER effort and also offer greater scope for Bank
contributions to this effort.  As anticipated by the identification mission,
however, the approach taken suggested the adoption of unusual, though not
necessarily incorrect,  appraisal criteria.   The Bank was recognizing that
PIDER's institutional framework and technological base might be still inade-
quate to the task assigned, but using the need for their improvement as an
argument for Bank involvement.  The project was therefore necessarily risky,
yet the general, large-scale approach adopted made it difficult to charac-
terize the project as "experimental."   Either this paradox had to be con-
fronted and argued through the appraisal process, or appraisal had to design a
project which appeared to have a good chance of succeeding under the "normal"
project criteria.
41.       During preparation and appraisal, the Bank urged numerous changes
in PIDER's design which were intended to strengthen it conceptually and
institutionally.   Most of the changes proposed were accepted, at least in
principle, by 'Government.  The audit believes that the changes proposed were
theoretically well founded.   But there was a substantial difference between
obtaining agreement in principal and obtaining effectiveness in practice,
particularly in the short run.  A number of the obstacles identified during
preparation were not subject to alteration within the time frame available.
Some were external to PIDER itself. This problem was not adequately reflected
in the appraisal report, as was pointed out in the appraisal review process.
42.       One review noted that the Bank was being asked to finance part of an
ongoing program (PIDER) involving a relatively large number of institutions
which, coordinated by the Presidencia, were expected to design and implement
thousands of investments in diverse rural communities. The review agreed that
it was impractical to appraise each and every investment and that appraisal
of the system, i.e., the institutions, coordination arrangements, and the
proposed technology packages for the microregions--which the appraisal
report had done--was the most practicable approach.   However,  the review



- 14 -
questioned whether the system had been realistically appraised. The appraisal
report read, it said, as if the institutional system and the technological
base were already adequate to achieve, with reasonable likelihood, the desired
impact. The review questioned the assumption that PIDER's coordination
mechanism was adequate and that the institutions involved would be able to
perceive and correct their own weaknesses.   It also questioned whether the
technical packages proposed for use in the microregions ("to a large extent
sight unseen") would be suitable in practice, noting that it would be diffi-
cult to obtain big, low-risk production increases under rainfed agriculture.
43.       Other reviews also noted that strong assumptions had been made about
the economic return to be obtained on project investments, many of whose
design were still only vaguely perceived. These assumptions seem to have been
hid[den rather than exposed. One review stated that the draft appraisal report
"makes it all but impossible to have an idea on the economics of the project
... it only deals with maize and beans ... there is nothing in the report to
heJp the reader get an idea of the economics of the project in terms of the
relationship between 'productive' investment and additional output...."  Yet
another review noted that "there is no economic analysis in the report on
costs and benefits with respect to the US$10 million investment proposed (for
soil and water conservation)," noted that the agency to be responsible for
implementation was "extremely weak" and questioned whether this component
should be financed.!/
44.       Although limited changes were introduced into the appraisal report
as a result of these criticisms, the final report reads much the same as the
draft.  The clear assumption is that the system will work.  Thus, it appears
as if PIDER I was approved on the basis that a narrow "project" interpretation
of its purpose had been accepted and satisfied.
45.       Once implementation began, however, it quickly became clear that the
PIDER system, as appraised, was a considerable idealization of the actual
framework.   Supervision missions pointed to the still fledgeling nature of
PID)ER-s planning and coordination framework, the difficulty faced by PIDER in
obl:aining legitimacy from the implementing agencies it was to coordinate and
direct, the need to improve the budgetary procedures used, the need for
improved planning techniques, and so forth.   Not surprisingly, Bank super-
vision found itself involved primarily in organizational issues and unable, at
least for some years, to undertake much work with the improved applied
research and extension effort considered essential to the success of the
productive investments which it had encouraged and which were being imple-
mented (PCR, paras. 7.07, 7.08 and 7.11).
1/   The internal Bank memoranda cited were dated January 28 and January 30,
1975. The memoranda originated in the Central Projects Staff, the Latin
America and Caribbean Programs Department, and the Latin America and
Caribbean Projects Department. Concern was widespread.



- 15 -
46.       Whether as a result of need to focus on organization, or from
the desire to participate more broadly in the PIDER program, the Bank agreed
with 'Government during implementation that it would be an artificial separa-
tion if these 30 microregions were administered differently than the micro-
regions financed from other sources.   Thus, rather than focus on PIDER I
investments regardless of events in other regions, Bank staff sought to work
hand in hand with PIDER management on the entire project.2!
47.       The approach taken had considerable logic insofar as it focused on
problems of great short-run importance and also offered greater potential
leverage.   But it simultaneously diluted the Bank's input by spreading it
over a larger and even more complex area and set of issues. Breadth as
opposed to depth of knowledge further encouraged an emphasis on institutional
issues rather than on microtechnologies for specific application in the areas
it was financing (PCR, paras. 7.07, 7.08, and 7.11).
48.       One approach was not necessarily better than the other; the proper
choice depended on the resources the Bank could offer and an assessment of
where they might have greatest impact.   The audit is not certain which was
most appropriate. The institutional problems faced were great and supervision
missions worked with unusual dedication and enthusiasm to understand and help
PIDER management resolve these.   They played the role of supportive critic,
political ally,  and  sounding  board.21   Their suggestions  doubtlessly in-
fluenced PIDER's institutional evolution.  It was impossible, however, for the
audit to determine to what degree ideas and pressures originating domestically
would have resulted otherwise in similar changes.   Even though supervision
maintained unusual continuity during PIDER I, so that mission members de-
veloped considerable knowledge of PIDER's staff and operations, the periodic
nature of their missions required that they react to rather than act on the
continuous organizational changes which events in Mexico produced. And there
was great need for more systematic work on microtechnologies, including farmer
organization, training, and technical assistance.
49.       It must also be emphasized that PIDER's organizational problems,
and thereby the need to dedicate effort to them, were exacerbated by PIDER's
rapid expansion.   From the beginning the 'Government put great emphasis upon
quick action.   The number of PIDER microregions increased from 54 in 1974
to 86 in 1976, to 118 in 1979, and to 133 in 1981.  Total expenditures rose
from Mex$0.8 billion in 1973 to Mex$1.7 billion in 1976, to Mex$5.0 billion
in 1979 and to Mex$10.6 billion in 1981. Increasing petroleum revenues during
the 1970s encouraged the 'Government to expand rather than moderate its goals.
That increase, with intensifying concern for rural areas after 1976, also
resulted in the development of new rural development initiatives, CVC and
COPLANAR; their expenditures soon exceeded PIDER's.3/
l/   PIDER I was appraised to finance 30 designated microregions and the Bank
disbursed on this basis.
2/   The mid-term evaluation, carried out jointly by Bank, PIDER and CIDER
staff, was an excellent effort by Government and the Bank to discuss and
analyze PIDER's problems realistically and to seek proper remedies.
3/   COPLAMAR's budget alone was US$1.7 billion in 1981.



- 16 -
50.       Between 1973 and 1982, and beginning from an expenditure flow near
zero, the'Government spent approximately US$2 billion on PIDER and con-
siderably more than this on other similar projects.   It is remarkable that
Government was able to build up its implementation capacity to the extent
achieved in such a short period of time.  These efforts brought great benefit
to many rural poor.  However, to the extent that concern for efficiency was a
priority, a slower effort should have been advised.   The scale of effort
continually outran the capacity of the system to implement efficiently and the
technical packages utilized needed improvement  if they were  to provide a
return normally considered attractive.   The enormity of the effort made the
potential loss from inefficient action very significant.
51.       This history suggests either that the Bank's efforts to encourage
PIDER and ensure its continuation were extraordinarily successful (PCR, para.
7.02), or that the Bank may have underestimated the deep Mexican commitment
to the effort.  If the latter is true, as the audit believes, the Bank might
have contributed more usefully by a greater emphasis on a slower, more cost-
conscious and, in the longer run, more effective program.
52.       The audit believes that the issue is not whether the Bank ought to
have supported PIDER, but how such support could best have been formulated.
The approach taken during appraisal was probably deficient.   The appraisal
report did not fully reflect the Bank's reasons for supporting PIDER, nor did
it adequately reflect the problems which were likely to be encountered.  Had
both reasons and problems been reflected more directly and completely in the
appraisal report, logic might have called for a clearer delineation of the
means by which different objectives  could be satisfied and also dictated
greater emphasis on experimentation, cost-control, problems of pace and scale,
and the like. An alternative project, similar to that suggested during
preparation, might have emerged.   It sought to achieve a successful project
within a more limited context, somewhat isolated from the problems of scale
and speed which affected the rest of the project and with an emphasis par-
ticularly on the microtechnologies  themselves.   Had this been implemented
successfully, the learning achieved could presumably have had significant
app:Lication in the broader program.  Example is a powerful lever for change.
Bank "support" could have been articulated just as forcefully.l/
53.       Institutional change necessarily occurs over a long period and its
fulL impact can only be revealed in the future. Many staff who participated
in PIDER feel any shortcoming in field impact is adequately offset by its
broader accomplishments, particularly the institutional advances made.  This
may be correct, but the magnitude of problems faced by PIDER merited more
attention at appraisal than it received.  The conceptual scheme behind PIDER
was and is an innovative and attractive idea.  But the Bank helped design a
project whose design implicitly, but not explicitly, attempted to use large
project expendi.tures as an instrument for increasing government capability.
1/   A counter argument is that support for the project was merited, only
broad support was acceptable to 'Government, and, given that the Bank's
appraisal process is inflexible, the approach taken was appropriate.



- 17 -
It is an expensive manner by which to create institutional change, and
there is the danger that one is always justifying today's imperfect action
by the promise of tomorrow's improvement.
54.       The project raises two issues relevant for future rural development
efforts which merit specific mention:
-    What are the appropriate criteria for project selection and evalu-
ation, e.g., what weight should be placed on benefits such as distributional
improvements, institutional change, and learning? Equally important, what is
a practicable means for measuring accomplishments?   These benefits, although
intangible, merit inclusion. But they must be handled with some precision if
their inclusion is to improve decision making.
-    To what extent is it appropriate for the Bank to use the total
"incremental impact" due to its participation as an indicator of achievement
even if the final rate of return is below a level normally seen as accept-
able? For example, if an incremental return was achieved in all PIDER
investments as a result of Bank assistance/leverage, is the total "gain"
indicative of Bank assistance? Or should the Bank forego such "benefit", for
the potentially larger benefit of influencing the Government to undertake a
more promising project?
C.   Emphasis on Productive Investments
55.       When PIDER was initiated in 1973 with domestic financing, almost
exclusive emphasis was placed on implementing (through public grant) what came
later to be called social and productive support investments.  The Government
planned to introduce on-farm productive investments at a subsequent stage,
along with technical assistance, credit and other associated services. During
preparation of PIDER I, the Bank encouraged Government to place strong empha-
sis on productive investments immediately.   The Bank argued that rural de-
velopment had to be self-sustaining to be permanent, thus requiring a produc-
tive base, and that the social and productive support investments also would
be more economically viable if they were integrated into a broader design.l/
The Government eventually agreed to devote 62% of PIDER I resources to produc-
tive investments. This proportion was estimated sufficient to carry the costs
of the indirectly productive as well as the productive investments and provide
a 16% rate of return (Appraisal Report, para. 6.01).
56.       The shift in project emphasis  toward productive investments,
however attractive in the longer run, caused great implementational problems.
The bulk of the project was shifted from strong to weak federal agencies, from
operating programs which required only marginal adjustments to those which
required fundamental change or initiation, from technologies which had been
1/   The Bank hoped that Mlexico would target the rural aevelopment effort on
those poor regions having substantial agricultural potential, not simply
on regions which were poor.   The emphasis on productive investments as
part of an integrated package had the advantage that it coincided with
this thrust.



- 18 -
implemented sucessfully to those which had to be adapted to unfamiliar circum-
stances, from investments requiring relatively 'simple beneficiary maintenance
to those requiring more demanding beneficiary operation, and, to a lesser
degree, from physical investments to support services. The number of activi-
ties in which PIDER was engaged increased dramatically, thereby increasing the
coordinating-planning  task  of  PIDER management.    These  changes  increased
pro;ject risk substantially, and this risk probably received inadequate atten-
tioIl at appraisal.l/
57.       The audit believes that it was correct to increase the emphasis
on productive investments, which would eventually form the principal element
in a rural development strategy, but not to the degree or with the rapidity
which was actually done. The issue is essentially one of phasing. Mexico did
not yet have an adequate technological or institutional base to permit a
widespread productive investment program to be carried out efficiently.  The
Bank was well aware of existing problems,-but expected that they could be
overcome rapidly to permit success.   It was overoptimistic about what could
be achieved in a short time, and insufficiently concerned about the opera-
tional implications of failure in any of the specific components (e.g.,
technology, extension and credit).   It thus encouraged a great deal of
investment (throughout PIDER, not only in the microregions assisted by the
Bank) which had low probability of economic success.
58.       Productive investments,  as implemented,  accounted  for nearly 70%
of total project funds.   These expenditures include the infrastructure fi-
nanced by public grant (39% of total project funds), complementary investments
financed by development credit (17%), and expenditure on farmer organization,
extension, and marketing (13%), which were mainly for support of productive
investments.   The productive investments fall into several broad categories.
The proportional importance of each category, as planned at appraisal and as
implemented, is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS, BY MAJOR CATEGORY
Appraisal             Actual
(%)                  (%)
Small-Scale Irrigation                 17                   16
Livestock                              10                   10
Soil and Water Conservation             5                    7
Fruit Production                        5            )       4
Beekeeping, Forestry and Fisheries    1              )
Sub-total                          38                   37
Credit                                 22                   22
Cattle and Irrigation      (13)                   (n.a.)
Fruit                     ( 9)                   (n.a.)
TOTAL                             60                   59
1/   Concern regarding the riskiness of project design is found in several
internal Bank memoranda, e.g., May 17, 1973, September 21, 1973 and
January 30, 1975.



- 19 -
59.       Information on productive investment impact is available from
a number of useful studies and reports.'/  These studies are largely descrip-
tive and lack full representativeness, but their findings and conclusions are
internally consistent and accord closely with impressions obtained from Bank,
PIDER, and implementing agency staff, and from direct field observations,
including conversation with beneficiaries.   PIDER also twice has carried out
an inventory of the operational status of investments from which valuable data
is available. The principal results indicated:
(a) Great variability existed in the impact achieved, both by type of
investment and by geographic region. The most successful investment
in terms of economic return and permanent employment generation was
small-scale irrigation.   Soil and water conservation,  fruit and
livestock investments were considerably was successful.
(b) About 25% of the productive investments carried out were still
not producing anything.   PIDER-s Planning Division carried out a
complete inventory in 1978. 'Of the 2,063 productive investments,
1,292 (63%) were completed and operating, 629 (30%) were completed
and not operating, and 142 (7%) were works in progress. Efforts by
PIDER management since 1978 to rehabilitate non-operating invest-
ments have been only partially successful.  In 1981, when the last
complete inventory was taken, of 2,452 productive investments, 1,869
(76%) were completed and operating, 222 (9%) were completed and not
operating, and 361 (15%) were listed as unfinished, although nearly
two years had passed since Bank records indicated physical com-
pletion of project investments 21
1/   CIDER has carried out more than 50 studies, of varying quality.  Several
high quality, insightful studies from CIDER include "Evaluacion de los
Programas de Riego, Desarrollo 7Ganadero y Caminos en cuatro regiones-
PIDER", Septiembre 1978, and "Informe Final de la Investigacion sobre la
estrategia y los resultados del Programa de Inversiones Publicas para el
Desarrollo Rural en el Estado de Oaxaca, Region PIDER No. 19, Mixteca
Baja", Febrero 1980.   An excellent report is that by The World Bank,
Rural Development Division, "Rural Development Project (PIDER I), Mid-
Term Evaluation Report", August 1979. Bank supervision reports for PIDER
I, II, III, and other Bank reports, especially Michael M. Cernea; "Mea-
suring Project Impact:   Monitoring and Evaluation in the PIDER Rural
Development Project - Mexico", World Bank staff Working Paper No. 332,
June 1979, provide important information.   Nonetheless, additional
detailed, quantitative, representative analysis of economic and social
impact is badly needed.   Relative to total program expenditures,  the
PIDER program is significantly understudied.   Without clear evaluation,
PIDER management cannot identify and correct problems, nor convince
other agencies or higher authorities that changes in program design are
warranted.
2/   The increase in the number of unfinished projects suggests a reclassifi-
cation of some projects from completed and not operating to unfinished
in the two inventories.   Some inventory error may be involved.   The
data suggest surprisingly little physical progress from 1978 to 1981,
despite a substantial increase in PIDER disbursements.  The inventories
show PIDER had completed 1,921 productive investments by early 1978, or
84% of the 2,091 completed by late 1981. In mid-1978, disbursements were
45% that achieved at closing.



- 20 -
(c)  The  production/income  impact of a significant proportion of the
operating investments is lower than expected at appraisal because of
technical/managerial problems.
(d) The economic return to most projects is well below that expected
at appraisal because of higher than expected unit investment costs,
higher operating costs, and lower production achievements (including
significant production delays).
(e)  M4ost projects have been operated by groups comprising only part of
the ejido to which they belong.  This organizational structure has
led to concentration of benefits and, in some cases, to internal
conflicts within the ejido.   It has also sometimes permitted more
effective operation of proJects by improving management, partici-
pation and incentives.   Where several investments have been made
within the same ejido, the aggregate benefits have been spread more
widely and sometimes created healthy competition.
(f) Employment effects are highly variable but appear close to appraisal
estimates of about 30,000 permanent jobs and 84,000 temporary jobs.
The productivity of the permanent jobs created is variable. Small-
scale irrigation projects generated little temporary employment, but
substantial permanent employment, often requiring increases in both
family and hired labor. Livestock projects, particularly per dollar
invested, generated little temporary or permanent employment.  Some
conservation projects, like reforestations, generated substantial
temporary employment but little permanent employment; others like
subsoiling, generated little temporary employment, but moderate
permanent employment.
60.       The stylized facts presented indicate that PIDER was not very
efficient at the field level. Yet tangible benefits were achieved and
specific mention of these is warranted.   Where investments were successful,
the impact of these projects, particularly when combined with social and
productive  support  investments,  is encouraging.   Permanent  employment and
income for beneficiary groups rose significantly and became more stable.  Men
were required to migrate seasonally less frequently, benefitting the community
as well as the individual.   Beneficiary/ejido organizations often were
strengthened and frequently became more democratic. The availability of good
drinking water, electricity (lights, TV, and refrigerators), small home
improvements, provision of grade school education, improved roads (trans-
portation), establishment of new stores, and access to health facilities
provided a much improved quality of life. Where PIDER worked well, the
beneficiaries are clearly pleased with the changes which are taking place.
Enlhusiasm, optimism, and appreciation are evident.  Many beneficiaries from
successful PIDER enterprises invest a high proportion of their income gains in
other, frequently collective, productive undertakings.   The urge to progress
is clear.   Nonetheless,  the number of investments which have been a clear
economic success is relatively low.   The costs of the achievements obtained
are high. This is PIDER's principal failing.



- 21 -
61.
Problems affecting PIDEK productive investments were numerous.
A brief review of the most important problems follows.   These did not each
occur in every project, but they occurred with considerable frequency.
(a)  Technical design.   Taken in its broadest interpretation, technolo-
gical strategy is perhaps the main problem of the productive invest-
ment component.   Much of  the technology applied  is of doubtful
appropriateness for the ejido sector. The technology is capital and
management intensive; the results achieved are usually sharply
affected by  small management  errors.L/   Equally  important,  how-
ever, the technologies employed, regardless of underlying technolo-
gical strategy, were sometimes badly implemented, e.g., inadequate
attention to local climate, improper layout and/or plot location,
overdesign of components, omission of crucial components, and
unjustified use of high cost materials.   Examples:   cattle and
dairy units with expensive steel and concrete construction, located
far from any water source; small dams placed where they would not
catch water runoff; pig units lacking drains or water pipes* or-
chards planted with species which could not live/produce in the
ecological conditions present.
(b) Completion of investment. Implementing agencies and contractors did
not always complete an investment or completed it hastily and badly.
These problems are similar in effect, but different in origin from
those of technical design.   Examples.   irrigation systems with a
distribution canal (although included in the specifications) left
incomplete, an irrigation pump was installed, but for lack of a
critical part (to be provided by equipping agency), could not be
started and used for several years.
(c)  Lack of complementary investment.   Frequently, more than one agency
was involved in construction, but their specific responsibilities
were poorly coordinated so that operations were long delayed.
Examples:   a livestock unit was built, but the irrigation well to
provide water was not drilled for a year (at which time no water was
found), an irrigation well was sunk and distribution canals built,
but credit was not provided to equip the well with a pump, and/or
electricity was not delivered/hooked up to permit operation, a dairy
unit was constructed, but credit was not allocated on time to permit
purchase of the herd.
(d)  Training and technical assistance.    Beneficiaries  frequently  were
provided investments which they had little ability to operate,
resulting either in almost total dependence on outside assistance,
and/or on poor operating results (including deterioration of the
investment and major financial losses).   The technological, finan-
cial, and marketing aspects of the project often required skills
beyond those possessed by the extension agents assigned to the
project.    Technical  assistance  often  arrived  only  irregularly.
1/   The use  of collectively-owned projects,  while achieving economies  of
scale and offering social benefits, exacerbated management problems.



- 22 -
Examples; cattle, dairy, pig and poultry units where livestock died
due to inadequate feed, sanitation or veterinary care or where
reproduction was unprofitably low due to poor animal husbandry
and/or nutrition, irrigation pumps, milking machines, and agricul-
tural machinery which were damaged by improper use and/or main-
tenance.
(e)  Purchase of inputs and sale of output.    Small  farmers  frequently
did not know where to purchase needed inputs at competitive prices,
nor have they been able to transport and market their output.
Competition from large, efficient commercial producers was intense
in many areas in which PIDER financed enterprises must sell (partic-
ularly pig, poultry and dairy produce), operating margins were
small, and PIDER enterprises were sometimes at a locational disad-
vantage.    PIDER beneficiaries had difficulty producing a stable
output and finding reliable purchasers.   Inability to sell perish-
able products like fruits and vegetables for lack of market knowl-
edge and reliable transportations was also important.   Examples:
inability to purchase fertilizers or pesticides for fruit tree
maintenance; inability to obtain poultry or pig feed at prices
permitting profitable operation, inability to sell pigs and chick-
ens.
(f)   Depreciation of investments.    High  depreciation  leads  to  short
investment life. Damage to and deterioration of project investments
require early reinvestment on many projects, but such expense often
exceeds the funds generated by the investment and may exceed benefi-
ciaries' capacity to borrow.   Examples;   corrals and fences often
deteriorate rapidly in the humid tropics, pastures degenerate to
renewed shrub growth and machinery longevity is reduced by hard
inoptimal use.
(g)  Gestation period.   Gestation periods are long for some investments
and beneficiaries were unable/unwilling to maintain the investment
for the required period.   Examples.  beef cattle and fruit trees,
both of which require continuous attention during 4-5 years without
significant income production.   Beneficiaries are required to work
elsewhere to maintain families, often migrating seasonally when no
work  is  available  locally.    Beneficiaries  grow frustrated with
cattle units, which are disbanded or only marginally maintained.
Orchards are not weeded or watered, growth is stunted and trees
die.
(h)  Social/organizational failures and conflicts.    Preoccupation  with
achieving rapid production increases led PIDER and the implementing
agencies to initiate construction of productive works in many
communities where only partial support and understanding of the
project had previously been obtained from the ejido. Beneficiaries
in these cases often took a passive, skeptical view of investments,
believing even after they were "given" the physical works that the
project still belonged to the Government or the implementing agency,
and that they were simply employees.   Also, usually only a small



- 23 -
proportion of the ejido members were involved as beneficiaries
because the investment provided too little permanent employment
and/or income to permit participation by all, or because some
members did not wish to participate.   Small groups were often the
only viable organizational means to proceed, but occasionally
led to monopolization of the benefits by a few (using collective
resources) and/or serious internal conflicts.
62.       The problems mentioned above were of serious proportion during PIDER
I. These issues are widely recognized and discussed by PIDER and implementing
agency staffs as well as within the Bank.   But it has required substantial
time for effective solutions to be found and implemented. Political pressures
and bureaucratic interests in the entire PIDER framework favored construction
of investments above concern with their operating efficiency.   PIDER and the
implementing agencies also had difficulty agreeing how a system should be
established to monitor and care for "completed" works. The agencies assigned
the role of technical assistance generally did not have funds for investment
rehabilitation. Rehabilitation could be financed from credits, but these had
to be solicited and approved.   PIDER generally financed new undertakings
rather than rehabilitate old projects.   Coordinating committees, originally
composed of PIDER, BANRURAL, and FIRA staff, and subsequently expanded to
include staff of other operating agencies, were initiated in 1979 in two pilot
regions to regularly review PIDER productive investments and, when not
operating, identify and carry out the necessary remedial measures. These were
successful,  it appears, only in one region.   An effort is being made under
PIDER III to institutionalize this procedure nationwide.
63.       Improvements also have been made in planning and implementing new
productive investments. More attention is given to beneficiary priorities and
to their organization and planning.   Design and supervision of construction
has been improved, agency coordination is better, projects requiring skilled
management often include provision of several years' private technical assis-
tance (through a credit subsidy).  Producer associations have been formed to
permit better commercialization and financial management in some regions, and
projects requiring long gestation periods have been implemented with greater
care. Nonetheless, the degree of improvement and the amount left to be done
vary greatly by region and by type of project.   Technologies still require
improvement, greater control is needed over project design and implementation
(political and other extraneous factors seem still damaging to project im-
pact), technical assistance (save when specifically attached to a project)
remains weak, and more attention is needed to resolve marketing problems.
D.   Extension and Research
64.       Agricultural extension was expected at appraisal to be a crucial
element of the rural development effort and, also, to be one of its weakest
components.   The extensiQn/research component was crucial in two aspects.
First, PIDER expected to achieve substantial production increases in rainfed
agriculture, particularly in traditional staples like corn and beans which
were produced by nearly all farmers in the PIDER microregions.   This effort
was to be a principal means of creating widespread production benefits.  Its



- 24 -
success depended, however, on the identification of improved teclhnical
packages for a wide variety of production systems and their subsequent
transfer to farmers.
65.       Second, PIDER expected  to introduce a variety of new productive
enterprises (small-scale irrigation, livestock units, fruit orchards) to
small farmers having prior experience only with traditional agricultural
practices and, in general, little education.   The technologies to be intro-
duced were both capital and management intensive and required much greater
market involvement (the traditional crops had been produced largely without
purchased inputs and were consumed principally at home, while the new enter-
prises required many purchased inputs, including services, and a major portion
of output was to be sold).   Because investments required group instead of
individual action, beneficiaries had to accept and become adept at collective
management.   New knowledge and skills had to be quickly acquired for the
operation of these enterprises, before it was decapitalized through production
losses or deterioration of the physical infrastructure and/or animal stock.
Without intensive ex-ante training of the beneficiaries and detailed super-
vision during the first several years of production, the productive enter-
prises were unlikely to achieve their goals.
66.       The task assigned to the extension/research system was enormous.
PIDER was initiating investments in many microregions in which there had been
little prior extension/research activity.  Extensionists with a wide variety
of technical skills were needed.  A major extension/research staff expansion
was required. Few personnel were available. Staff had to be trained,
organized, and given practical experience.
67.       Because the extension/research system was known to be weak, efforts
were made at appraisal to strengthen it.  But these efforts were unrealistic.
The appraisal report called for development of the research/extension system
concurrently with the implementation of PIDER's productive investments. Such
development could not take place sufficiently rapidly.   Implementation sub-
stantially outran the capacity of the research/extension system to guide and
service it, with damaging effect on project achievements.
68.       Moreover,  at  negotiation  no acceptable  plan had been submitted
by SAG for the provision of extension and applied research to the 30 PIDER I
microregions.   Submission of an acceptable plan was made a condition of loan
effectiveness. SAG submitted a draft plan for comments in September 1975 and,
based on this plan, effectiveness was approved.  Bank staff indicated at that
time that the SAG plan was still deficient in key respects, however.  It was
not much more than a statement of intentions (a concrete proposal was to be
submitted in November 1975 and Government approval of this proposal was
expected in January 1976), contained no implementation chronology, no indica-
tioni of which specific actions would be taken, nor which agencies or sub-
departments would be responsible.!!  Thus, the project was initiated without
any substantive reason to expect that extension/research could play the
important role assigned it.
1/   Internal Bank memorandum, September 25, 1975.



- 25 -
69.       The extension system was seriously handicapped by the lack of
technical packages with which to work, but was further constrained by a lack
of both effective organization and of suitably prepared and motivated extenr-
sion agents.   Extensionists often had no clear responsibilities.  Their work
programs lacked specified projects and objectives, and their performance
was not evaluated in terms of field results.  Agents from different agencies
and/or departments working in the same region often overlapped.   Different
extensionists visited the same PIDER projects (usually on an irregular and
uncoordinated basis) and, after rather hasty observation of production prob-
lems,  offered different and sometimes  conflicting  recommendations.   Bene-
ficiaries  were  confused  and  frustrated.    Simple  logistical,  bureaucratic
problems were also important; for lack of vehicles or funds for operating
expenditures (gasoline, per diem), or because of routine paperwork, agents
spent a dominant proportion of their time in the office.   Agents were also
poorly assigned, working on production problems outside their specialties or
in ecological regions different from that for which they were trained and
where their knowledge was much less applicable.   And there was great staff
turnover, either due to promotions and transfers within the system or to
departures to the private sector.
70.       Many  extension agents were  poorly  qualified  to work with small
farmers either because of inappropriate training, lack of experience, lack of
motivation, or cultural problems.  Most extension agents were recent agricul-
tural graduates having little practical experience.   Their academic training
focused on modern production practices utilized by commercial producers, and
their recommendations were often inappropriate for small farmers working with
different production techniques and within different financial and marketing
constraints.    Extensionists  needed  training  in small  farmer  agricultural
systems, so as to understand what the small farmer is doing and why, and
in communications, so as to absorb as well as to convey information effec-
tively. In addition, many extensionists, college educated in urban areas and
accustomed to middle-class values, incomes and comforts, confronted a cultural
gap which inhibited communication with the beneficiary.
71.       Farmer preparation and training prior to receipt of a major invest-
ment  was  insufficiently  emphasized.    Training was  particularly  important
whenever a valuable, easily damaged asset would be managed by small farmers
having no prior experience (e.g., livestock or machinery). Apprenticeship on
another operating enterprise would have been a useful complement to training
courses (it is now being used in some areas).
72.       Investments were planned and constructed first, and extension and
marketing were usually arranged subsequently. This procedure should be
changed.   Extension agents who will be responsible for the outcome of the
investments should be identified prior to the investment, involved with the
community in the planning stage, and then responsible for technical assis-
tance, including advising other agencies when their support is required. This
also is now being done in some PIDER regions.
73.       Although  the  extension/research  system  functioned  poorly  during
PIDER I, there are a number of successful cases.   What characteristics do
these successful cases share? First, success has been greatest in those areas



- 26 -
in which small farmers have higher levels of education and some prior experi-
ence with the technology to be introduced.   These producers demand more of
extension agents and/or look for alternative solutions if effective assistance
is not forthcoming.   In a number of cases, for example, ejido groups have
incorporated new members from outside if such members brought badly needed
expeartise, e.g., beef cattle, dairy, or irrigation management. Second,
success has been greater where dedicated extension agents have worked closely
with producers on a regular basis to solve clearly identified production
problems.   Examples may be found in nearly all of the regions where PIDER is
working, and in nearly all of the production areas sponsored.  On a signifi-
cant proportion of livestock units developed in recent years (especially dairy
cattle, pig, and poultry units), funds have been provided through FIRA
and BANRURAL for employment of veterinarians on a regular and intensive basis
during the initial years, usually with good results.   Third, small farmers
have obtained assistance from other sources, e.g., from contracted accountants
and from input suppliers.
E.   Participation
74.       PIDER took the lead in promoting beneficiary participation in
public investment programs in Mexico, and substantial evidence exists that
effective participation, when it has occurred, contributed importantly to
pro;ject success.   Nonetheless, participation at both the planning and sub-
sequent stages was more limited than projected at appraisal and, though
increasing, remains limited still.
75.       The problems encountered with participation were partially foreseen
in t:he appraisal report. Most small communities (especially ejidos) in PIDER
target areas had only a minimum of previous social organization.   Official
policy historically had discouraged organization and had limited the demands
which ejidatarios could make on Government resources.  Ejido land titles and
certificates of membership had not been issued to even one-third of the
"existing" ejidos (in 1972), resulting in serious conflicts over boundaries
among ejidos, between ejidos and private owners, and among ejidatarios.
Abuses of ejido legislation were pervasive and well known, but little or no
corrective action had been taken by any public agency and ejidatarios, in
general, had no effective legal recourse. The Secretariat for Agrarian Reform
(SRi), officially in charge of organizations and tenure issues, was organiza-
tionally weak and its staff was limited in both numbers and in quality.  SRA
program actions were strongly influenced by political criteria.   Under the
Echeverria administration, actions had been taken in 1973-74 to strengthen SkA
and to improve the land tenure situation by issuing titles and membership
cert:ificates. Substantial progress was made, although the overall situation
of t:he ejidos remained extremely weak and continued to be plagued with tenure,
membership, and social conflict.
76.       At appraisal, SRA was given the primary role of farmer organization.
Fundls were provided through PIDER for increasing SRA's staff and, thereby,
its activities,  in PIDER I microregions.   The approach to be followed was
only partially specified, however.  Moreover, PIDER soon found that even the
spirit of its agreement with SRA was being violated, many of the SRA staff



- 27 -
assigned to PIDER I regions were being used in non-PIDER regions on other
tasks.   With Bank support, PIDER threatened to cut off its funds unless SRA
staff were promptly and permanently reassigned as agreed.   SRA reluctantly
accepted.   Shortly thereafter,  however,  political concern with rural land
tenure conflicts and internal reorganization of SRA resulted in substantial
SRA staff resignations and a significant weakening in its efficiency.   lo
obtain even the minimal farmer organization required legally to constitute
farmer groups as recipients of investment projects (and/or credit), PIDER
since then has turned increasingly to other agencies (BANRURAL, SARi, etc.)
and to its own staff.   These efforts were limited by resources, but PIDER
increasingly sought to involve beneficiaries in the rural development effort,
to ensure that they were more fully informed of PIDER's purpose, of their
rights and responsibilities in the PIDER program, and of the channels through
which they could work to achieve more desired ends. PIDER's efforts were more
intense and successful in some regions than in others.l/
77.       Participation was needed at every stage of the PIDER program.
Community inhabitants have substantially more knowledge regarding available
resources and talents than an external technician, who, however competent,
cannot obtain this information with direct interaction with them. Communities
have investment priorities which are often crucial in identifying works of
economic value.  Communities have preferences for organizational arrangements
(including means of assigning employment and deteraining the mode of income
sharing) which must be satisfied if a project is to be accepted, maintained,
and operated efficiently and if social harmony is to be achieved. And commu-
nities constitute a potentially useful monitoring institution if properly
informed of the project's aims, their rights, and the channels through which
to seek rearess if not satisfied.
78.       Although participation was increasingly recognized as being essen-
tial for effective rural development, three problems confronted the growth
of participation.   First, efforts to organize farmers were often resisted
politically at the national, state, and local levels and, when not resisted
directly, are resisted indirectly by failure to assign resources to this goal.
Second, participation, when encouraged, was a slow, staff intensive process,
often inhibited by socio-economic problems internal to the ejido, i.e.,
leaders who did not wish to lose their traditional dominance to more demo-
cratic decision making, family and personal conflicts, etc. Some PIDER staff
made great effort to achieve participation, but achieving effective partici-
pation required  substantial  time.   This  indicates  that rural development
programs ought to be designed realistically, i.e., properly sequenced, to
reflect the level and capacity of beneficiary participation and to reinforce
it. Third, although there was a high correlation between the degree of
participation and PIDER investment success (with causation running in both
directions), overreliance could not be placed on participation as a panacea
1/   Three highly useful studies of beneficiary participation in PIDER are:
hichael M. Cernea, op. cit., and "Popular Participation in Investment
Programming in PIDER - Mexico," Agriculture and Rural Development Depart-
ment, The World Bank, Working Paper (Draft), June 1982, and Richard
Lacroix and Debora Caro, World Bank Rural Department Projects in Latin
America, Annex 4 - The PIDER Program in Mexico:   A Case Study, 1983.



- 28 -
for project ills.   Most beneficiaries had been accustomed to very humble
posture regarding government officials and other persons with higher education
and/or social status. Beneficiaries were rarely qualified to offer sophisti-
cated technical opinions. They were often uncertain whether their judgements
(from common sense) were valid. They were unaccustomed to require compliance
from government agencies, particularly if resistance was encountered from the
agency.
F.   Credit
79.       The Bank considered it essential that credit planning be included
in the investment planning stage to ensure that working and development
credits would accompany the infrastructure provided by public grant.   The
credit component was to be administered by FIRA under the same institutional
arrangements as had been applied for lending to low-income producers in the
Fourth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Loan (Loan 910-ME)._/  Both private
and public commercial banks were expected to make loans (following established
criteria) and to discount these with FIRA.  The Bank also believed that the
technical and financial skills of FIRA's staff could improve productive
investments planning and hoped that credit use itself would permit greater
cost recovery (as not all the investment would be provided by public grant)
while simultaneously promoting greater beneficiary participation.
80.       The credit component did not function as planned until the project
had nearly closed.   First, unlike the procedures followed in PIDER's other
components, PIDER's coordinating mechanism for allocating and supervising
credit did not include the principal credit agencies (FIRA and the public
banks) with which it was expected to work.  Not until late 1976 did FIRA and
PIDER sign a formal agreement to establish the needed coordination.  Second,
the three public banks operating in the agricultural sector (BANAGRO, Banco
Agricola, and Banco Ejidal) were merged into BANRURAL in 1976 and several
years passed before the new institution became fully effective. This ineffec-
tiveness was crucial to early credit performance because private banks were
reluctant to loan to ejidatarios, whose land cannot be mortgaged. The
official banks accounted for 83% of total PIDER lending during the project.
Third, FIRA had few offices and little staff within the microregions in
which PIDER was operating, its staff was accustomed to work primarily with
larger commercial farmers, and its management was not eager to extend business
to smallholders.  Fourth, PIDER's and FIRA's institutional approaches toward
rural development were quite different, the first oriented toward the use of
public grants for infrastructure and the latter toward credit for economic
enterprises, and each hesitant to embrace the approach of the other.
81.       As a result of the problems cited, credit often did not accompany
PIDER's productive works and, when it did, it was often delayed substantially.
By mid-1978, the allocation of development credit was still only 33% of the
1/   Project Performance Audit Report, Mexico - Fourth Livestock and Agri-
cultural Development Project (Loan 910-ME), OED Report No. 2577, dated
June 29, 1979.



- 29 -
appraisal estimate. FIRA and PIDER established a standing committee in late
1978 which, in coordination with private and official banks, worked in-
creasingly well to coordinate investment and credit planning.
82.       Credit planning was less successful than hoped for in an important
qualitative sense as well.   The cost of productive investments was to be
covered by funds from three sources:   public grant, credit, and beneficiary
direct contributions. No clear criteria were established at appraisal for the
proportion which was to be borne by the grant element (which was justified
mainly on distributional grounds), but the Bank assumed that the entire
investment package (including that part financed by grant) would be economic.
In practice, the proportion financed by grant has varied substantially across
region, investment type, and time. The grant element has frequently been used
to make investments financially feasible (for the beneficiary) which otherwise
are economically unjustified.
83.       The Bank was aware at appraisal that provision of investments
through public grant was conducive to inefficiency and hoped that this
tendency would be moderated by including the credit agencies, which were
expected to be more concerned with economic criteria, in the planning stage.
This effort initially failed when there was no coordination between PIDER and
the credit agencies.   The credit agencies   growing involvement has since
improved the situation.   However, both FIRA and BANRURAL were also under
political pressure to increase lending to low income farmers and were re-
luctant to intervene too harshly on the side of economic criteria.   PIDER
projects made it easier for them to lend to low income farmers by assisting
with and/or financing farmer organization and by providing, through infra-
structure, a resource base needed to make subsequent lending of lower risk.
Competition between the two credit agencies was intense in some regions, and
each agency expressed concern that projects rejected by one agency on economic
criteria might be accepted by the other.  Both institutions also came under
direct pressure from State officials eager that specific investments be made
for political reasons.
84.       Credit use in the 30 different microregions is highly varied, as
shown in Table 2.  About one third of the microregions showed no significant
use of PIDER credit and half the regions showed no growth in the amount of
PIDER credit used over the project-s implementation. These data suggest that
the credit program had substantially more success in some regions than in
others, either because PIDER-FIRA-BANRURAL coordination was better or because
the region-s productive potential was greater. It is evident that a number of
the microregions (or parts of microregions) in which PIDER was working have
development potential well below that assumed at appraisal.   For example,
FIRA's total discounting (to all beneficiaries, from all lending sources) for
development credit in the microregions show that seven PIDER I microregions
had no significant credit use in 1979.  Total discounting in the other micro-
regions grew at nearly twice the rate as PIDER credit use, suggesting that in
these regions opportunities for credit use outside the areas where PIDER
investments were made were greater than inside, despite the impact of PIDER
investments.



- 30 -
Table 2
FIRA Development Credit Disbursements, PIDhR Loan
30 Microregions, 1975-1979
Total Operations
1.   Millions of pesos disbursed.    Number of Microregions in category.
<10                                   10
1- 75                                  16
>75                                    4
2.   Number of credits disbursed.
1-7                                    4
8-14                                    7
15-50                                   13
50-100                                    3
>100                                    3
3.   Growth of credit disbursements.
High growth                                9
Unstable movement                         15
No growth                                  6
Source: FIKA, elaboration by audit mission.
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation
85.       An effective monitoring and evaluation  (X&E) component was con-
sidered essential to successful implementation of the PIDER project.  PIDER's
task was large, complex, new and uncertain.  Feedback on project impact was
needed to identify strengths and weaknesses and permit systematic improvements
in project actions. Problems had to be caught and corrected quickly if
project investments, which were proceeding rapidly, were to have the desired
effect.   Crucial issues requiring review included the appropriateness of the
technical packages proposed for onr-farm application, farmer response to and
participation in the PIDER effort, and the ability of participating agencies
to carry out and coordinate their assigned tasks.
86.       As with other facets of PIDER, the development and functioning of
the M&E component offers aspects to criticize and applaud.  It took a useful
first step, setting an important precedent and providing experience, and it
identified important project  shortcomings.   But it failed to achieve  the
(unrealistic) task which it was assigned.   Discussion of this failure demonr-
strates some of the important obstacles faced.  It also suggests lessons for
future M&E efforts.



- 31 -
87.       The Government preferred that the M'i&L couponent be divided illto two
parts,  handled by two different  institutions.    Separation was considered
important  to evaluation objectivity.    Monitoring,  defined  to involve the
collection of information on the physical progress of construction and on the
disbursement of appropriated funds, was to be handled by Presidencia (PIDER)
which was already engaged in this function as one of its principal tasks.
Evaluation, to involve analysis of the effectiveness of project actions, was
to be carried out by a new Research Center for Rural Development (CIDER).l/
CIDER was expected to act in close cooperation with PIDER, even utilizing
PIDER staff on some of its evaluations, but was to be budgetarily separate,
financed directly by funds from the Secretariat of the Treasury (no external
assistance), and governed by a Board of Directors composed of representatives
from the principal implementing agencies involved, PIDER itself, and the
Treasury.
88.       The monitoring and evaluation components did not develop in the
way expected, nor have they had the desired impact on PIDER operations be-
cause:   (i) PIDER management focused on disbursements and physical imple-
mentation to the exclusion of subproject on-farm operating impact; (ii)
PIDER/CIDER separation inhibited the flow of information between them, and
(iii) institutional tensions between PIDER, CIDER, and the implementing
agencies constrained both the evaluation process and use of the results
obtained.
89.       Presidencia (and later SPP) collected information on the physical
completion of PIDER works needed to permit disbursement to implementing
agencies and to maintain a record of institutional achievements. lt collected
no information until 1978, however, on the state of the works after disburse-
ments ceased, i.e., whether they were functioning and/or having the expected
impact. The lack of information on project operation reflected a traditional
bias of federal agencies toward investment as opposed to operation.  External
pressure on PIDER to implement more rapidly reinforced this bias.  Although
PIDER made a much greater effort than was common in Mexico to ensure the
compliance of implementing agencies with contract specifications (to such an
extent that implementing agencies in some areas avoided PIDER work), and
sought to coordinate the actions of different agencies, until 1978 there was
no complete assessment of the operating condition of PIDER investments, let
alone a widespread effort to achieve solutions when problems appeared.
90.       Separation  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  components  between
Presidencia and CIDER reduced the flow of information between them for simple
logistic reasons. Similar problems affected PIDER and the implementing
agencies which were farther removed bureaucratically.  Institutional tensions
exacerbated the situation. Many of these tensions remain.
1/   CIDER was expected to focus on issues like:   causes for discrepancies
between planned and actually implemented activities, interagency co-
ordination and interagency efficiency, field level project impact,
effectiveness of campesino organization, and importance of community
responsiveness.   CIDER was also expected to provide training courses in
rural development techniques for PIDER and other agencies  staffs.



- 32 -
91.       The PIuER-CIDER relationship was immediately conflictive.   First,
substantial disagreement emerged regarding the purpose of PIDER, and also the
purpose of CIDER, i.e., about the goals to be evaluated and about whether the
foremost purpose of evaluation was to chronicle PIDE&Ks accomplishments or to
identify its shortcomings.   Second, CIDER-s semi-autornomous status permitted
it a more free voice (as intended), but thereby made its critical analyses
more public and more institutionally threatening.  This gradually resulted in
a reduced CIDER role (with PIDER developing more in-house evaluation capa-
city).  Third, many of the operational problems identified by CIDER were the
result of implementing agency inefficiency, yet PIDER's power to affect these
agencies was limited.   CIDER criticism appeared (externally) aimed at the
PIDER program, hurting PIDER, while the implementing agencies (threatened
nonetheless) resisted the criticism. Identification of problems was therefore
transformed into program improvements only very slowly.
92.       PIDER and CIDER staffs had different conceptions regarding what was
rural development and what should or could be done to achieve it.   These
differences were accentuated by institutional interests.   PIDER staff were
hired to implement a major new project. They were given large resources and a
mandate to make rapidly a significant and politically evident impact on the
rural sector. Their principal action was to coordinate and extend the invest-
ments made by the federal agencies already operating in this area. Not
surprisingly, PIDER staff was intent on achieving a large aggregative impact
and had a public works bias.  In contrast, CIDER staff evaluated this effort
fromn an independent,  almost academic viewpoint.   Most of its members were
sociologists and anthropologists. They were interested in writing for a wide
audience, and to influence public debate on rural development issues.  Their
focIus was on the rural community, on "grassroots" developments (farmer organi-
zation and beneficiary participation), and on distributional as opposed to
aggregative impact. Miuch of their criticism was aimed directly at the public
worlcs bias.
93.       The two perspectives described were potentially complementary
through interaction, but were highly conflictive in practice.   For example,
CIDER's initial studies suggested that PIDER's field activities were much less
effective than had been hoped.  In several instances it became apparent that
the impact of microregion programs that had appeared strong prior to CIDER-s
eva:Luation was in fact very weak.  Management was often identified, at least
indirectly, as a principal causal factor and several major changes in PIDER's
Stal:e management  staff resulted.   These changes were  positive insofar as
management competence and motivation often has been identified as an important
fact:or in determining the quality of PIDER's programs.  However, many problems
identified in the CIDER studies were not resolvable by PIDER staff changes.
They required major changes in PIDER's overall approach, including a shift in
emphasis from physical investments to farmer organization and training, and
were dependent on improved implementation (under whatever strategy) by some of
the weaker federal agencies involved.



- 33 -
9 4.      PIDEk did not disagree with many of ClDER's assessments.l/  PIDhR
tried repeatedly to obtain solutions for some of the institutional problems
which CIDER idenitified, e.g., imprvced investment design, beneficiary organ-
ization, agricultural extension, and credit provision.   It had some success,
but usually encountered resistance from the implementing agencies.   Feeling
their expertise and institutional territory threatened, the implementing
agencies fought back, delaying PIDER work and lobbying against its program at
higher levels.2/   PIDER had some leverage in the funds which it controlled,
but could use this leverage only at the expense of its own program investment
goals.   The agencies' ability to resist PIDER's funding leverage also grew
with the emergence of other public investment programs such as CVC and
COPLAMIAR, which "competed" for agency implementation capacity. Further, PIDER
was not certain that a political mandate existed for the change which CIDER
most encouraged, i.e., an increased effort to achieve farmer organization and
beneficiary participation.   PIDER needed farmer organization to obtain bene-
ficiary acceptance, as opposed to rejection, of its proposed investments.
PIDER was initially less concerned to ensure that farmers were organized to
manage investments effectively.   This effort was much more time consuming.
Mioreover, opposition was often strong at the state and local levels where
farmer  organization  threatened  vested  interests.    There was hesitancy  to
initiate changes whose longer-term effects were not clear and, possibly, not
controllable, particularly after land tenure disturbances in late 1976 caused
some political reaction. Thus, PIDER felt the alternatives suggested by CIDER
were difficult, given its own mandate.
9'5.      PIDER also felt that CIDER's criticisms, which became semi-public
because of CIDER's semi-autonomous status,3/ took the gleam off PIDER's
achievements and weakened rather than strengthened it bureaucratically,
placing it at risk within a fierce budgetary struggle for resources.
I/   Central PIDER staff, as part of the mid-term evaluation, carried out a
complete inventory of PIDER works in 1978 and found that many works which
had been declared operational by state and local staff were, in fact, not
operating.   Following the 1978 review, pilot PIDER-FIRA committees were
established in several regions to review problem projects and seek
improvements.   These committees were  then extended  in some areas  to
include other implementing agencies; the extended committees have been
quite useful where they have gotten off the ground.
2/   PIDER also did not have a sufficiently large or technically well quali-
fied staff to intervene adequately in all the complex actions taken by
implementing agencies. Thus, PIDER's efforts to intervene were sometimes
technically inappropriate.
3/   As  CIDER-s board was composed  of  representatives from other federal
agencies, it was easy for institutional enemies of PIDER to obtain
information to be used against it.



- 34 -
96.       The appraisal report (Annex 7, page 2) recognized that if CIiDER was
perceived as being threatening to agencies in the field, its evaluative work
could not be carried out successfully. In this case, CIDER came into conflict
wil:h the institution which it threatened most, PIDER. As this conflict could
nol: be kept in-house, the PIDER-CIDER relationship gradually changed.
97,       PIDEh first requested CIDER to be more supportive in its evalua-
tions, to report on its accomplishments, and to be practical in its recommen-
dat:ions, recognizing the problems which it (PIDER) had with the implementing
agencies.   PIDER also began to move away from CIDER, providing less coopera-
tion.   CIDER made some effort to comply, placing more attention on develop-
ment of new institutional procedures and staff manuals, all designed to
improve PIDER microregion annual and intermediate planning procedures.  CIDER
also moved to increase its institutional distance by diversifying its activi-
ties to focus on more general rural development issues not specifically
related to PIDER.  This focus became more logical with the emergence of other
rural development programs during the Lopez Portillo administration.   The
conflictiveness of CIDER's studies was thereby reduced.
98.       CIDER now  deals with  specific PIDER problems only occasionally.
Professional discourse between PIDER and CIDER, while cordial, appears infre-
quuent.  There is no effort to establish an agenda of problems for analysis,
nor to seek specific management recommendations.   In turn, a reorganization
after 1978 has gradually provided PIDER with greater in-house evaluative
caEpacity, which is being strengthened under PIDER III.   The thrust of this
effort is to maintain an inventory of the operational status of each PIDER
created enterprise through special teams in each State, and to see that this
infiormation is in the hands of PIDER management.   The effort will have the
desired effect, however, only to the extent PIDER feels that its institutional
well-being is directly linked with the operational success of these enter-
prises so that its efforts are directed primarily at this goal.  This linkage
also can only be achieved if PIDER itself is able to convince higher Govern-
merit officials (who ultimately set PIDER policy), and also its counterparts in
the implementing agencies (who are the direct actors), that achieving sub-
prcject economic success should be the principal goal of their joint efforts.
99.       Conflicts  between PIDER and  implementing  agencies whose actions
it was to coordinate and supervise have been similar to PIDER-CIDER conflicts,
but with  somewhat different outcome.   Federal agencies traditionally were
highly independent, often acting in isolation; decision making was central-
ized, so that agency procedures and program actions took inadequate account
of the wide variation in rural environments; and agency goals were often
established and pursued with insufficient concern for whether the resulting
achievements were of use to those who received them.  PIDER's purpose was to
ensure that agency goals and actions were adjusted better to beneficiary
needs, and better coordinated. however, because resistance to intervention in
specific agency procedures and actions was great, and PIDER power limited,
PILER decided after initial conflict to limit its actions to coordination,
audciting and monitoring. It is encouraging that experience and contact
between PIDER and agency staffs nonetheless led to improved working relation-
ships and wider recognition of implementation problems (which were once hotly



- 35 -
denied and debated).   Efforts are growing  (particularly at the technical
level) to alleviate these problems.  But PIDER (as opposed to CIDER) carried
out little or no formal evaluation of agency actions and had too little
analytical discussion with agency managements regarding needed program
actions.  Evaluation was perceived as conflictive (direct interference).  As a
result, slow progress was made toward resolution of the implementation prob-
lems faced. PIDER's efforts to improve implementation are likely to be
successful only if a less conflictive means can be devised by which PIDER can
participate with the agencies in a mutually accepted learning process.
100.      It might be helpful to encourage the institutionalization of moni-
toring and evaluation procedures within the implementing agencies (some of
which now have no systematic concern for evaluation).   Establishment of an
agency network through which implementation problems are systematically
identified and analyzed would create added knowleage and an internal voice
within each agency, would increase discussion of and, hopefully, agreement on
project goals among PIDER and the agencies, and a more participative approach
might make evaluation appear less conflictive while still allowing PIDER's
central staff to maintain an overall evaluative perspective. Realistic
expectations regarding performance of an evaluation system should be main-
tained, however, given the newness of formal evaluation procedures in Niexico,
the complexity of PIDER institutional relations, and the political and
bureaucratic obstacles thereby created. Evaluation cannot be effective unless
given adequate guidance and support from the political authorities themselves.
101.      Since 1980, institutional evolution has introduced a further compli-
cation.  Planning and implementation authority has passed to the State Gover-
nors.   Under the monitoring and evaluation system currently being adopted,
monitoring is to be undertaken by SPP personnel at the microregion level and
the results passed forward to central PIDER (SPP) staff for evaluation pur-
poses.  However, it is likely that (critical) evaluations of program actions
in specific states will be resisted by State Governments or, alternatively,
that pressures will develop for central PIDER evaluations to be muted, and
thereby less effective.
H.   Rate of Return and Other Project Criteria
102.      The calculation of a single average rate as an indicator of project
success should be handled with caution, because (i) specific economic informa-
tion regarding project impact is badly lacking, (ii) sub-project design
and impact (to the extent known) have been highly diverse in different circum-
stances, and (iii) the project is associated with substantial intangible costs
and benefits not included in the conventional economic calculation. On
balance, however, the project suffered implementation and subsequent operating
problems which have significantly reduced the impact expected from productive
(on-farm)  investments.    It is conjecture whether the intangible benefits
associated with the project have compensated for this shortfall.
103.      The project financed several thousand small projects, both on-farm
and public infrastructure, in about 1,500 target communities.  Data regarding
output, input use and costs, and sales, have been collected and analyzed for
only a few PIDER-financed enterprises.  The mix, scale and phasing of invest-
ments has varied substantially among communities and microregions, making it



- 36 -
difficult to extrapolate results from a few, small-sample studies.   Where
known,  similar investment  types have  shown significant variation in their
economic evolution through time.   The outcome of many investments is still
indeterminate and will depend on future actions by government agencies and
beneficiaries, as well as the general economic environment.  The existence of
other public investment programs in project areas makes it more difficult to
isolate PIDER I costs and benefits.   And there is a complex array of price
distortions in the Mexican economy, for which adjustment theoretically should
be mlade.  These factors make calculation of the ERR necessarily approximate.
better information on this large project is badly needed.
104.      The PCk (paras.  4.19-4.21) reestimates the ERR at 6%, recognizing
that delayed start-up and slower growth in output during the initial years of
many subprojects will reduce the ERR from appraisal expectations.  The audit
believes the PCR estimate is still optimistic.   The divergence between ex-
pected and actual operating results for the productive investments, which
directly and indirectly account for over 7C0% of project costs, appears even
larger than assumed in the PCR. Numerous investments, given their type (e.g.,
soil and water conservation and cattle units) would not have been expected to
yield high returns had they been optimally implemented.  And there is little
evidence to support the PCR assumption that project activities have caused
generalized increases in rainfed crop yields in project microregions.
105.      The impact of most PIDER I on-farm investments is well below
that expected.  Conversations with Government and Bank staff, review of CIDER
evaluations and Bank supervision reports, and direct field observations
suggest that only about 20% of the productive investments might earn returns
equal to appraisal expectations, while 80% will probably earn returns signif-
icantly below this level (it appears that a significant fraction are likely to
have little output).   While perhaps one in five projects is working well,
providing evidence that opportunities exist for profitable productive invest-
ments when these are correctly designed and implemented, higher than expected
investment costs, operating costs, and depreciation, production delays and
lower operating output affected most of the projects.   The cumulative effect
of these factors is large. There are a significant number of outright
failures.   The audit concludes,  therefore,  that the ERR of the productive
investment component probably will only be marginal.
106.      The  PCR  assumes  that  subproject  performance,  although  delayed,
will ultimately reach expected levels. however, efforts to improve the
operating performance of PIDER I productive investments since the 1978 mid-
term review seem to have had limited impact to date.   Under PIDER III,
increased emphasis is to be placed on subproject rehabilitation and improved
technical assistance.   This effort could improve the rate of return,  its
failure could imply further deterioration of performance.
107.      The PCR also assumes substantial increases in rainfed crop yields.
The PCI{ assumes (Table 4.5a) that the pre-PIDER yields were approximately
50% of those assumed by the appraisal, and that yields now will increase by
199C to 3.33 times the before development level for rainfed corn and beans and
for irrigated corn, and to 5.25 times for rainfed beans.   These assumptions



- 37 -
appear substantially exaggerated, actual yield increases have been small to
date and, where occurring, seem little related to PIDER investments and
extension efforts.   A major failing of the project, relative to appraisal
expectations, was the inability to develop an effective system for the design
and delivery of new rainfed crop techniques for poor farmers in marginal
areas, but it was probably unrealistic to expect that this would be easily
forthcoming.
108.      The appraisal report assumed that the rate of return on the produc-
tive investments would carry the costs of the productive support investments
and still provide an overall EkR  of 16%.   If the return on the productive
investments is instead minimal, it is unable to carry the costs of the produc-
tive support investments.   The productive support and the social investments
have additional justification, certainly their benefits will exceed those
directly reflected in the outputs of productive investments.   But even with
adjustments the project ERR, as conventionally calculated, is probably dis-
appointingly low.
109.      The substantial intangible benefits associated with PIDER I must
also be considered, most importantly, distributional, learning, attitudinal,
institutional and political effects. Some overlap occurs among these effects,
but distinction among them is useful.
(a) Distributional. PIDER's target beneficiaries were unusually poor by
Mexican standards.   Despite relatively poor investment performance,
a high government subsidy permitted net gains to most beneficiaries.
Improvements in income distribution may make it appropriate to weigh
more heavily benefits achieved by PIDER beneficiaries.   However,
CIDER evaluations were concerned that PIDER productive investments
frequently exacerbated rather than reduced income and social differ-
entiation within communities.
(b) Learning. Mexico had little prior experience with broad-scale rural
development carried out mainly in rainfed areas with small farmers.
PIDER provided a gigantic, varied (and costly) working experiment.
Much has been learned, both about what to do and not to do.  PIDER
resulted in substantial staff training (Bank staff also learned much
about rural development), in major improvements in planning, budget-
ing, and evaluation mechanisms within Mexican public administration;
in the identification of many technical problems (rainfed agricul-
tural technology, delivery of technical assistance, ejidatario
organization).   An increased appreciation of the importance of the
human element emerged (project manager, ejidatario, agricultural
professional, etc.), as opposed to physical investment.   The weak-
nesses of many federal agency procedures and practices also became
more clear.
(c)  Attitudinal.    PIDER  activities  induced  substantial  attitudinal
change,  separate from specific learning.   The project encouraged
positive attitudes among government officials and staff (both
federal and state) regarding the goal of rural development.   In a



- 38 -
few important cases, a developmental mystique has been developed,
resulting in especially high motivation (there are also cases in
which cynicism has resulted from poor performance, but these seem
less prominent).   Ejidatarios have been encouraged to assume
positive expectations regarding government activities which can
affect them, regarding their own productive potential, and regarding
their capacity to affect ejido organization and leadership.
(d)  Institutional.   PIDER initiated coordination and cooperation among
federal agencies in achieving a common cause.   Although initially
there was substantial bureaucratic resistance, cooperation is now
improved. The decentralization of decision making to the state and
local level, including a strengthening of state and local government
administrative capacity, was considerably advanced. Ejido organiza-
tion has been gradually and hesitatingly encouraged.   Other rural
public investment programs and institutions have emerged, both
complementing and competing with PIDER efforts (CVC, COPLANAR,
Distritos  de Temporal,  FOIR).4/   These  projects,  which may owe
some birthright to PIDER, have had positive and negative effects.
(e)  Political.  PIDER was initiated largely as a political program and
continues to be influenced strongly by political considerations.
PIDER  investments, are  considered  important  in  the Government s
continuing efforts to resolve social conflict and maintain social
harmony in a society which shows substantial distributional differ-
ences.   These effects are difficult to measure and to value, but
they are important.
I.   Bank Performance
110.      Bank performance should be considered mixed mainly because of
project results.  A large and complex project was appraised rapidly, permit-
ting a project with considerable priority to proceed quickly.  The appraisal
report was optimistic regarding the productive potential of some microregions,
the availability of suitable agricultural technologies, and the ability and
desire of large federal agencies (constrained politically and bureaucrati-
cally) to make rapidly fundamental changes in their operating practices.  The
report documented many potential project weaknesses, but gave little analysis
to the problems which would result if specific institutions failed to fulfill
their assigned role. Supervision reports were detailed, analytical and
insightful, continuously seeking improvements in PIDER operations.   Institu-
tional processes were emphasized, but attention to field-level impact was
substantial given the resources available.   Bank staff encouraged and then
1/   COPLAMAR, working through agreements with implementing agencies, finances
primarily social and productive support investments in marginal rurals
areas,  some of which are also PIDER microregions.   Its annual budget
exceeded PIDER's by about four times in 1982.   FOIR (Fund for Rural
Public Investment) provided funds for rural productive investments;
its work was suspended in 1981 after large corruption was discovered.



- 39 -
participated with PIDER-CIDER in an excellent' (qualitative) mid-term evalu-
ation. Bank project staff maintained a good working dialogue with SPP
(PIDER), but had less contact with the implementing agencies.   A tendency
developed (perhaps naturally) for Bank staff to see PIDEk through PIDER staff
eyes; as PIDER was institutionally and bureaucratically isolated from the
agencies it was to coordinate and supervise, Bank project staff also remained
somewhat isolated from them, making solution of project problems more diffi-
cult (PCR, Chapter VII).
III. CONCLUDING REMARKS
111.      In reflecting on the PIDER experience,  it is evident  that this
integrated rural development project was one of the more complex and difficult
undertakings of the Bank.  Thousands of small sub-projects, of many different
types, had to be elaborated to fit diverse local environments. Few technolo-
gies had been proven.   The available resource base was weak.  Beneficiaries
and government agencies had little history of interaction.  A great deal of
social and institutional, as well as physical engineering was required. There
was little prior experience on which to draw.  Miuch had to be worked out as
the project proceeded, and many errors had to be expected as a natural process
of learning.  NSonetheless, the large size of the project, and the emphasis on
rapid implementation which surrounded it, magnified the errors which resulted
and probably reduced rather than increased the rate of effective learning from
the process.
112.      Recent research hypothesizes  that rural development programs can
best be implemented throu h a series of project stages, each of which empha-
sizes a different task.!    The structured approach emphasizes the innova-
tional nature of the task and the need for continued evaluation of results
achieved.    Because  rural  development  programs  require  substantial  social
intervention, which is likely to cause a varied and constantly changing
project environment, project interventions are likely to require frequent
adjustment.   Efforts must therefore be made to develop organizations which
will look on error (project shortcomings) as a basic data source for making
project adjustments.
113.      In stage one, a package of program actions is developed in a number
of case efforts to achieve the desired goals at the community level. Substan-
tial experimentation and evaluation, intensive in both financial and intellec-
tual inputs, are required. Error rates are expected to be high, but declining.
Much work in community dynamics is undertaken.  After some success has been
achieved,  stage two is initiated.   The emphasis is now on increasing the
efficiency of project actions. Extraneous activities are gradually eliminated
and important activities routinized. Efforts are made to achieve a fit
between program requirements and realistic organizational,capabilities. Staff
1/   Korten, David C., "Community Organization and Rural Development, A
Learning  Process  Approach,"  The Public Administration Review,   1961.



- 40 -
development is expanded. After an institutional mechanism has been developed,
stage three can begin in which the emphasis is on project expansion. The rate
of expansion is governed by the rate at which the necessary organizational
capabilities can be developed to support it.
114.      The structured approach outlined is similar to the process detailed
in many Bank projects in which a pilot effort is attempted as a precursor to
major project expansion. This approach was not used in the PIDER project. In
PIDER I, all three development stages were condensed into one; large-scale
diffusion was initiated before either the technological packages or the
inst:itutional mechanism to implement them were perfected. It was assumed that
both the packages and the institutional system would evolve rapidly to accept-
able standards. The institutional system evolved rapidly, although systematic
misiunctions reduced efficiency.  The packages utilized were, in many cases,
not effective. Further, because implementation was not undertaken in a truly
experimental' manner, the audit fears that investment impact was evaluated
insufficiently to learn effectively.
115.      The Bank considered a slower, more structured approach, but ulti-
mately decided for larger, immediate involvement in hopes of improving PIDER's
design through time.
116.      The project must be evaluated from two perspectives.  'On the one
hand, the project attempted too much, resulting in higher costs and lower
ach:ievements. The results suggest the validity of starting small and experi-
mentally, and sequencing project actions carefully. On the other hand,
political pressures for rapid action made such an approach difficult, and the
Bank did achieve a useful dialogue with Government which contributed to
improved PIDER performance over time.



3141DOSAf4~
+                     - 41 -
7,                                           Annex A
0                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 1
GOVERNMENT COMMENTS
SECRETARIA DE PROGRAMACION
Y PRESUPUESTO                M6xico D.F., april 16th, 1983
DR. MERVIN WEINER
Director General OED
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Weiner:
Attached to this letter I am sending the comments by page and
paragraph to the P.P.A .R. Mexico-Integrated Rural Development
Project (PIDER I). An official letter from Mr. Donaldo Colosio,
Director General of Regional Programming and Budgeting will
follow.
In general, the points of view expressed in the audit are highty
subjective based an personal appreciations. The paper sounds too
politically oriented, treating improperly several issues. The
report is out of balance, for instance, the section on monitoring
and evaluation takes 20% (9 pages) of the total number of pages
whereas the impact is presented in only 3 pages.
The audit overcriticizes the failures of the productive investments
stating that 25% of this investments are not working (equivalent to
just 12% of thewhole PIDER program), but never mentions the successes.
Throughout the paper, the time dimension is heterogeneus, some times
is today's PIDER, in other instances is 1981 or 1976. The audit is for
PIDER I.
It should be convenient to include some recommendations and alternative
solutions to the problems.
Sincerely Yours,
Lic. Jos6 Luis Genel
Director of the Rural Integrated
Development Program.



- 42 -                  AnnexA
Page 2
CO?I,[r'LTS FD' PAGE AMJ PPARAGRAPH
Page - iii  Basic data sheet, Item:  Economic Rate of Retus;.   in
the Actual or Estimated Actual,  a   negative rat-u ,s
stated. In the PPAM, paras. 53-58 it is expressed
that the rate is marginal, but not negative.
Pages-8-to-- Impact. The whole section should be rewritten. It
11-          gives a wrong impression of the PIDER program,  over-
emphasizing on the failures.
Para 17. It is mentioned that "is impossible to
accurately asses project successes and failures, and
their causes", nevertheless,   "The audit belives
that the ERR, is probably marginal. It is a difficult
judgement whether the intangible benefits achieved
(political , institutional, distributional, and lear-
ning) are  sufficient to raise the project's summary
ranking to an acceptable level".
So, is impossible to asses but with a simple subjective
judgement, based an personal appreciation, the audit
belives in marginal results. As there in no method
to measures the intagible benefits we may belive from,
the PIDER view point, on subjective  grounds that the
weight attached to this type of benefits can be large
enough to offsetany costs and turn the project highly
feasble



-43-                     Annex A
Page 3
pOira7i3. 3ust little attention is naid to 'he , 'I,';
of the social ar,d pdrcductive investment. I, ooan       azt.
it is stated tilat   25% of the productive investmen-ts
are not oPeratinq n,
It is convenient to express that productive investrnents
take 50,O of PILDER resources, in other words, 12% of the
whole p-ogram  is not operating. In addition, this
statement is contr-adictory with Para.25. ( b )   In 1981
of 2,452 productive investments,...,222 ( 9% )1/ were
completed and not operating "  So the impact seect,on
gives a misleading picture of PJDER.
Para.19. On the productive investments, it is commented
that " Many successfu1 pro-jects liave drama licaily increased
beneficiarv incomes,"but no one is mentioned,  on the
contrary, the whole paragraph only describes f-ailure
after failure giving a negative concept of the PIDER
Program.   It would be appropiate to include which projects
were successful ( information was given to the Wiorld
Bank for the preparation of the PCR ) and avoid such an
array of im-proper words to describe the problems faced
by the Program.
Para.20. It is written that " many of the problems
identified in PIDER I are being alleviated under PIDER II"
but the final sentence states that " weaknesses similar
1/ Equivalent to 4.5, of the total investments.



- 44-                   Annex A
Page 4
to those encoz1ntc-xd  in PTIfDP,   rcmain ir. PiDE   : I  '
this is contradictor- and tneeds further  clarii'ication.~
I-1 MAIN ISSUES.
Page -12-  Para.-2. This paragraph is not clear and just shows
a global appreciation  of the change towards productive
investments.
Page -15-  Para.25. (b) As mentioned above the PIDER productive
investments not operating is 9%, seems inconsistent
with the ' about 25% of the productive investments
carried out are still not producing anything ", is
worth to ask:as of when ?
Page -17-  Para.26. At the  begining it is said " PIDER was riot
very efficient a the field level, " afterwards almost
the complete paragraph praises the achievements of the
Program ( we  go along the same lines ), nevertheless
the last two sentences ", the number of investments
wich have been an economic  success is relativy low.
The cost of achievements  obtained is high. This is
PIDER's  principal failing", once again the pleasant
reading is disturbed by the dramatic ending. This is a
highly subjective opinion. Where are the socio-political
benefits ?
Page -17-  Para.27. It would be proper to includetthat PIDER is
putting its best efforts to solve the problems mentioned
along the pairairaphi.



-45 -                     Annex A
Page 5
Pane  -1l-  Pa ra a  .     , O n2t: C.8  SC' !,  i n  '    I   '[ ; rn, ' sL  t. o the
solition  of problems ij  'sl sw', and le co pie ely
disagree with  " PcI i ti cal presiU,r-;  nd bureau ra tic
interest In the entira Pr-DlER rra 7,;e.work are in  favor of
implementing physical work as repcily as possib.e
It would be necessary  co chcCzk the World Barik  supFervision
misions filcs and to learn  the PIDER's prcclra,m!ing-budge nq
process before writing this sort of statements.
page -22-  Para.29. Once again, a good opening but in the i;iid
paragraph the always personal, subJective and  superflucs
opinion  " Nonetheless, the degree of improvement and
the amount left to be done are highly variable and the
audit seriously doubts if the PIDER package beiric.
implemented today is yet economiic in  the conventional
sLnse ". Wlhat an unfair judgement. How the audit is
measuring the TODAYS feasibility ofl the PIDEP  program,
where is the empirical evidence, are the results of the
PIDER II and !II PCR's reports being discovered in
advance ? 'We seriousljy invite the World Bank to study
in depth the present res..lts through a mid-term  evaluaticn.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
Compared to the rest of the paper this section takes
9 pages, equivalent to almost 20,%' of the whole report,
seerms out of balance and really do not contribute to
an objective learning of.the PIDER. The subject Is
already treated extensively in an extraordinary document:



-46-                      Annex A
Page 6
H1easurinq ProjecL Impact: Monitoring and evaluation
in the PIDER Rural Development Project-Mexico  " ( WoHld
Bank staff  working  paper 332, prepared by  Michael
Cernea ).
Page -27- Para.37. The end of this paragraph is politically biased
" PIDER w-anted farmer organization..., but oppositions....
particulary after severe  land tenure disturbances
occured in late 1976 ". First of all,one thing do not
has anything to do with the other, second, Mexico did
not have at all severe land tenuere disturbances in 1976,
there were only few problems in a couple of northern
states.
Page -27-  Para.38. All of it is completely irrelevant, we suggest
to exclude it from the report.
D. Rate of Return and other Project Criteria
Page -38-  Para.57. In paras. 53.,54., and 55.  is adviced that
a single rate has to be handled with caution, difficult
to extrapolate from few small sample studies, and
impossible to asses the validity  of the assumptions or
accurately determine the impact of project shortfalls,
nonetheless," the audit concludes that the ERR of productive
investment component will only be marginal ". Including
the productive support and social investments " the
project ERR in likely to be minimal ", therefore the
substantial intangible benefits ( para.58. ) are not
being considered.



- 47-                    Annex A
Page 7
Page -38-  Para.58. !he int giLl   s sc i ted with P l   (. }
Distributional; (bJ )   arniinq. (IC)  ttitudinal; (ci)
Institutional; and teR Politcal I re  always described
with a negative qualyfinic eg: (a) Distributional
Despite relati-vely poor  -investment perforraance,high
governmnent subsidy permittedi net gain to most beneficiaries"
(b) Learning " PIDER  provided a g igantic, varied  (and
costly  ) working experiment
E. Participation
Page -41-  Para.60.Regarding participation, the whole paragraph
is politically oriented and should be rephrased.For
instance, " Official policy historically had discouraged
organization and had limited t,he demnands wich ejidatarios
could make on Goverment r-sources " is a very strong -
statement on official policy and we consider it incorrect.
In addition, ejido land title had been issued to more
than 50% of the " existing " ejidos  and not to a third
as is mentioned in this para.
Page -42-  Para.61. Once again,inconvenient political issues are
being expressed in this para.   llith Bank supnort,PIDER
threatened to cut off its funds unless SRA sta ff were
comptly and permanently reassioned as agreed, SRA
rel uctantly accepted ". PIDER do not need the Banik
support to cut or increase funds to any federal aaency
that works within the program.



- 48 -                  Annex A
Page 8
Page -43-  Para.63. T'hle wilole paragraph i.s irrelevant, g-ven a
wrong m!,iage of the organization system, is pol it.ca ly
biased and improperly mentions that " Most beneficiaries
have been accustomed to very humble posture regarding
government officials and other persons with higher
education and/ or social status.  Beneficiaries are
rarely qualified to offer  sophisticated technical
opinions..., they are unaccustomed to requiere compliance
from gjovernmient agencies, particularly if resistance is
encountered from tihe agencv
With 4this statement the audit explicitly  tries to
defame the mexican peasant and PIDER beneficiaries. We
consider this as a very unfair position. We w,ould
recommend to exclude the complete paragraph.
F. Credit
Pages -44- Paras. 64 and 65. They present a distorted version of
to    -47-
FIRA and BANRURAL, Para. 68. Repeats twice: " FIRA and
BANRURAL have been under political pressure to increase
lending to low income farmers " and " both  institutions
also have come under direct pressure from state officials
eager that specific investment be made for political
reasons ". This sounds the same.
III Concluding Remarks
Paoes -50- Paras. 72. and 73. Only describe hyothesils on rural
to    -52-
development and arc uised to show that the PIDER packages



-49 -                       Annex A
Page 9
were n-l-.- CfHectivf;     era 74.), nreie,        ess tine
remark s ar'e too fraH' 1  anc; do not contribute  at al1
to the understanding of the  PIDER daveloproent.



I



- 51 -
MEXICO - LOAN 1110-ME
INTEGRATED RURAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Rural Development Division
Agriculture and Rural Development Department






- 53 -
MEXICO - LOAN 1110-HE
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -PIDER I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Efforts at rural development in modern Mexico began in the 1930s
with the intensified land reform campaign through which hundreds of
thousands of hectares of land were redistributed to landless rural
poor. Until the early 1970s, however, assistance for the development of
this newly distributed ejido 1/ land and the land of other small producers
was limited to some credit and a few small-scale irrigation schemes.
During the 1950s and 1960s, the government of Mexico gave priority to
developing its commercial agricultural potential. With rapid expansion of
irrigated area and introduction of new seed varieties, grain production
increased at an average annual rate of 5% between 1950 and 1965. Most of
this growth took place on large-scale irrigated and mechanized farms. In
contrast, production on many ejidos and small farms in rainfed areas did
not keep up with local population growth-leading to considerable
emigration from rural areas.
1.02      In 1970, Government made a commitment to develop the potential of
small farmers and to begin to redress the imbalance in rural income
distribution. In pursuit of this objective, substantial resources were
allocated to a number of schemes directed at raising incomes and improving
basic services in the poorer rural areas -of Mexico. At first, resources
were channeled through existing programs based on two principal strategies:
first, expansion of river basin development programs to provide packages of
low-cost productive and social investments to small producers, and second,
strengthening of rural development capabilities in a number of agencies. A
third strategy, that of integrated rural development, was formulated in the
early 1970s and embodied in the Program for Rural Development Investment
(PIDER), established in 1973. The Integrated Rural Development Project -
PIDER (hereafter PIDER I), for which a World Bank loan of US$110 million
(L#1110-ME) was approved on May 5, 1975, was distinguished from earlier
L/ The term ejido is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village
"common'.  In present Mexican law, the ejido is basically a group of
families with joint-and inalienable-rights of usufruct to land.  The head
of such a family is called an ejidatario. Ejidos accounted in 1979 for 60
million ha, or 43% of Mexican farmland.



- 54 -
rural development projects in Mexico both in size and scope. Its objective
was to finance investment in productive, support, and social infrastructure
in areas with productive potential and a large proportion of rural poor
population. PIDER was a departure from earlier strategies both in its
integration of productive and social infrastructure investments and in its
focus on small, well-defined areas throughout the country. The Mexican
government requested Bank assistance for 30 micro-regions 1/ in order to
get the program started. PIDER I was conceived of as the first of a series
of Bank-assisted projects within the larger PIDER program. By the time the
PIDER I loan became effective in October 1975, the PIDER program comprised
80 micro-regions (though investments for a number of these were still in
the planning stage). A loan of US$120 million to support investment in an
additional 22 micro-regions was approved in 1977 for PIDER II, and one of
US$175 million was approved July 21, 1981 for PIDER III. By the end of
1981, the program as a whole was financing investments in 134
micro-regions, including the 52 which had received some IBRD assistance.
PIDER I was expected to increase the productivity of about 120,000
producers and provide some 350,000 persons with improved access to social
infrastructure.
1.03      As originally set up, the PIDER program was to be implemented by
the respective agencies and ministries concerned with each component, and
coordinated by the Ministry of the Presidency (Presidencia). The Loan
Agreement between Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) and IBRD and the
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and IBRD were signed
on May 5, 1975, and became fully effective on October 29, 1975. In 1976,
when President Lopez Portillo took office, Presidencia was eliminated as a
ministry, and responsibility for the PIDER Program was placed under the
newly created Ministry of Programming and Budgeting (SPP).The loan was
fully disbursed on August 30, 1980, 20 months after the original closing
date.
1.04      Prior to Board Presentation of PIDER I in 1975, 11 IBRD loans
totaling US$518.7 million had been approved for agricultural and rural
development projects in Mexico. Loans for irrigation development accounted
1/ A "micro-region is defined as a subdivision of a state, with an average
rural poor population of 50,000. Selection criteria balance poverty level
(the program's aim is to reach low-income groups) with potential for
income-increasing productive activites.



- 55 -
for 72% of total Bank lending in the sector, and agricultural credit for
28%. By FY82, another 14 IBRD loans totaling US$1,626 million had been
approved for agricultural and rural development in Mexico. Of this amount,
37% was for small-scale agriculture or rural development. The PIDER I and
II loans together accounted for US$230 million, or about 14% of total
lending to the sector.
1.05      In Mexico, fiscal commitment to development of the small-scale
agricultural sector and to the improvement of services in rural areas has
continued to grow. By 1981, federal spending for these purposes exceeded
US$2,000 million equivalent annually. The PIDER program alone was
chanelling annually nearly US$500 million to poor rural areas.
1.06      Subsequent to the establishment of the PIDER program, other
funding programs have been set up utilizing various aspects of PIDER's
experience, though not duplicating the integrated approach. A major effort
to increase cropped area and productivity in the rainfed agricultural zones
is underway. This program utilizes the recently created rainfed
agricultural district structure to provide, in a timely manner, farm
extension, demonstration, applied research, soil and water conservation,
and credit services to farmers. A recent Bank loan (1945-ME, Rainfed
Agricultural Development Project, US$150 million) partially financed the
strengthening of this program at the national level and intensive program
implementation in nine of the 124 established districts. In those
districts which coincide with PIDER micro-regions (the majority) the
Rainfed District Chief takes a major role in planning agricultural
investments, and is responsible for the extension, technical assistance,
and applied research programs.l/ The growth of the Rainfed District Program
with its particular focus on rainfed agricultural extension reflects the
increasing awareness of the Mexican Government of the need for technical
assistance specifically directed to small farmers. This recognition of the
key role of extension in small farmer and rural development is partially
due to the early experience of the PIDER program, and to the emphasis
placed on extension by the Bank in the preparation of PIDER I (para 2.10).
1.07      Basic needs programs are also receiving much greater levels of
funding.  The Commission for Depressed Areas and Marginal Groups
(COPLAMAR), was begun in 1977 to finance investments in social
infrastructure of rural roads, potable water systems, health clinics,
housing, and rural stores in selected zones with extremely limited
production potential where programs such as the rainfed agricultural
districts or integrated rural development would have little chance of
success. COPLAMAR now has an annual budget of US$1.7 billion.
1.08      This report is based on a review of Bank records, an ex post
evaluation of PIDER I carried out by SPP Staff, and a completion mission in
September/October 1981.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
2.01      The proposal submitted by the Mexican Government in 1973
envisioned a program of size and scope rather greater than usual in either
1/ The nine IBRD-assisted Rainfed Districts do not coincide with IBRD-
assisted PIDER micro-regions.



- 56 -
Bank or Mexican experience.  Yet, if carefully planned and executed, the
program promised to be the most important effort to develop small-farmer
potential and improve the quality of rural life in Mexico to date.  The
fact that the proposal was of Mexican origin was considered an important
factor adding to the program's prospects for success. However, the type of
dialogue anticipated between the Government and the Bank in preparation and
appraisal of the "project" was predicted to require more time and manpower
c:han the average Bank-assisted agricultural project. For these reasons, a
decision was taken soon after identification that the process of
preparation and appraisal would not be rushed through; it was thought that
:he gain in significant contribution to the formulation of such a program
was worth devoting the manpower and time required.
2.02      A number of issues were raised early on in the preparation phase
of the "project" (the Bank-assisted portion of the program) which were
lollowed through appraisal and implementation. The Bank's pursuit of these
..ssues over the years of its association with PIDER through assistance to
specific micro-regions has influenced the evolution of the program as a
whole. For greater clarity, the two-year process of preparation and
appraisal is here summarized according to the salient issues treated.
Issues Related to Size, Scope, and Nature of Program.
2.03      The unusual size, scope, and nature  of the PIDER program raised
aL number of questions regarding both program strategy and the role of IBRD
in that strategy. It became evident early on in "project" identification
that Government's expectation was that the loan would be treated as a
program loan, without the usual requirements of detailed evaluation and
supervision which project loans implied. I/ While acknowledging that PIDER
1 would be an unusual project in many respects, it was precisely the
unprecedented size and scope of the program which led to the decision in
the Bank that the Bank could better contribute to the success of the
program through the higher input of technical assistance and supervision of
a. project loan. 2/ It was recognized, nevertheless, that supervision of
such a project would require more than average manpower input from the
Bank.
2.04      Similar issues arose in deciding the appropriate strategy and
methodology for appraisal. It was decided that a detailed evaluation of
the plan for each component would be carried out by Bank specialists. On
the other hand, detailed appraisal of all 30 micro-regions would clearly be
impractical. It was thought that more would be gained by appraising a
representative selection of micro-regions in a first round, discussing with
the Mexican team recommendations for improvements to the methodology used
in developing and analyzing the micro-regional plans, so that the revised
methodology could be applied to the evaluation of the remaining
micro-regions of PIDER I, and, eventually, to all micro-regions as they
were added to the PIDER program. Approval of the revised plans would then
be a condition of disbursement for the respective micro-regions.
2.05     The problem of selecting a sample of micro-regions representative
of the whole was approached through dividing the country into six
T/ Report on General Mission (Alter, 3/73).
2/ Letter to NAFINSA (Alter, 5/30/73); O.M. (6/1/73, 7/25/73).



- 57 -
ecological macro-zones.  One micro-region from each zone was appraised in
the first round, the rest in later stages.
2.06      The final areas of special importance due to the size and
complexity of the program were the institutional arrangements (and manpower
availability) for administration of the program. The Mexican plan
specified that execution of each component would be carried out by the
agency directly concerned with that activity. For example, construction of
irrigation sub-projects would be the responsibility of the Secretariat of
Hydraulic Resources. Agencies would also participate in planning the
respective components. Coordination of the various agencies' activities
and overall strategy was to be the responsibility of the Presidencia
Working Group (PWG) assigned to the development and administration of the
PIDER program. Two constraints to the effectiveness of these arrangements
were the manpower available to the PWG and the authority which the PWG
could exercise to coordinate program execution. Bank missions noted that
the Working Group staff was committed and enthusiastic, but few in number,
relative to the task, and generally young and inexperienced. Bank staff
were concerned that this would lead to management problems when
implementation was underway. A related concern was the capacity to carry
out monitoring and evaluation for the program, if those functions were to
be added to the responsibilities of the program's administrative staff.
2.07      An organizational framework for program administration was set up
at federal, state, and local levels, giving Presidencia exclusive authority
for planning, coordinating, and supervising all government activities
within PIDER micro-regions. Because of the fact that the PIDER program had
been established by mandate of the President, this framework was considered
to endow the PWG with sufficient authority to carry out program objectives.
2.08      The concern regarding the establishment of an effective
monitoring and evaluation system was satisfied by the founding of the
Research Center for Rural Development (CIDER), whose purpose was in part to
carry out ex post evaluations in PIDER micro-regions. While organized
within Presidencia, CIDER was managed independently of the PWG.
Issues Related to the Integrated Concept and Other Issues
2.09      The original concept of the Mexican proposal was to provide
physical infrastructure through public grant, thereby eliminating what were
perceived as the most important bottlenecks to development of rural
productive potential. Complementary services, such as extension and
credit, were not the primary focus of the program, though recognized as
important elements in development. From an early stage in the dialogue
carried on throughout the preparation of the Bank-assisted project, the
Bank insisted on incorporating software components (i.e. agricultural
extension, credit, and farmer organization and training) as part of the
project and on strengthening the linkages between the physical and software
components. Government policy in this regard was to use program resources
to provide beneficiaries with the minimum collateral (i.e. on-farm
infrastructure, such as irrigation works, corrals, and so forth) necessary
to borrow and to plan for credit in a second, or "expansion" phase. The
Bank considered it crucial to the achievement of production and income
objectives that planning for credit requirements be included in investment
programming. Finally, government agreed to include credit agencies in the



- 58 -
planning stages and to include a credit component in the Bank-assisted
project.-! The degree to which credit agencies were actually involved as an
integral part of planning, however, remained a concern throughout
implementation.
2.10       As with credit, the Bank judged that greater attention should be
given to providing extension assistance to farmers receiving program
investments. Government agreed to set up a committee composed primarily of
technicians from Presidencia, and the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Livestock (SAG), to draw up a proposal for a working plan to improve the
extension program.2/ Since the proposal was not complete by negotiations
in April 1975, the Bank's approval of a completed proposal was made a
condition of effectiveness.3/
2.11       A third issue addressed during preparation and appraisal was that
of cost recovery. As mentioned above, government's policy with respect to
the PIDER program was to provide infrastructure through grant, while the
Bank was concerned that beneficiaries help to finance some on-farm
investments themselves. Taking into consideration the very low income
levels of the beneficiaries, a repayment schedule was worked out according
to the degree of profitability, amount of capital investment, and timing of
benefits projected. The final agreements projected that between 30% and
50% of total costs would be recoverable. Estimates were based on the
following breakdown: 100% of medium- and short-term credit (30% of project
cost); 100% of marketing and electrification investments (6.4% of base
cost) would be recoverable through user charges; 100% of beekeeping
investments (.5% of base cost) through direct repayment; and up to 30% of
livestock, irrigation, and fruit development (20% of base cost) would be
recoverable through either direct repayment obligations or user charges.
The last levels were set in accordance with Mexican law applying to
irrigation investments. The criteria for establishing the amount to be
repayed in each case was to be their ability to pay balanced with the need
to maintain an incentive to make best use of land and water available to
them. In addition, beneficiaries were required to make a contribution in
cash, kind, or labor to health, education, and rural water supply
investments and were to be responsible for 100% of maintenance and
operating costs of productive investments and for full operating costs of
marketing, electricity, rural water supply, and self-help projects. 4/
2.12       Negotiations were held from April 2-11, 1975.  The significant
changes resulting from negotiations were as follows:
(a)  A component for financing rural industries was deleted at the
request of the Mexican delegation on the grounds that the
institutions which were to handle the program were not
sufficiently prepared.
(b) The ceiling for local competitive bidding was raised from 30
to 67% of the total cost of goods and services.
i/ Report on general mission (Alter, S/73); Office Memorandum, Minutes of
Meeting in Mexico (Scott, 8/73).
2/ Supervision Report, 9/11/75.
3/ Minutes of negotiations, 4/21/75.
4/ Office Memoranda (9/21/73, 1/14/74); Guarantee Agreement, pp.5-7
(5/22/75); SAR, pp.26-27 (4/16/75).



- 59 -
(c)  It was agreed that investments could be planned on the basis
of model ejido budgets, since the manpower requirements for
planning a separate budget for each ejido or village would be
excessive.
(d)  Per capita investment ceilings were raised from average cost
estimates to upper range limits to allow flexibility in
in budgeting.
(e)  It was agreed that the controllers  of individual agencies
would conduct annual audits and submit their reports to the
Bank.
(f)  At the request of the Mexican delegation, it was decided that
the Bank would not finance the Evaluation component, though
the covenants related to that component were accepted.l/
2.13      The minutes of negotiations indicate that the Mexican delegation
clearly regarded the loan along the lines of a program loan, and requested
waiving of Bank approval of individual plans. However, the Bank insisted
that Bank financing of individual micro-regions would be conditional on
approval of the respective micro-region plans. In addition, submission of
an acceptable plan to improve the extension/demonstration programs were
made a condition of effectiveness.
Board Approval and Loan Agreements
2.14      On May 8, 1975, a loan of US$110 million was approved by the
Board of Directors; the loan documents were signed on May 22. The loan was
to be effective August 29, 1975, pending fulfillment of conditions, in
particular the submission of an operational plan for extension. This date
was subsequently extended to October 29 to allow revision of the
operational plan.2/
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND APPRAISAL ESTIM&TES
3.01      As approved and agreed upon, the project was to assist the
implementation of investment plans in 30 micro-regions with a rural
population of 1.5 million. The project was designed to support investments
in the following categories:
(a) Directly Productive (66%), including small-scale irrigation
development and rehabilitation; soil and water conservation;
livestock infrastructure and pasture improvement; and credit
for purchase of livestock, equipment, and other materials
necessary for operation of infrastructure investments.
(b) Productive Support (22%), including feeder roads, extension
1/ Office Memorandum (4/21/75)
2/ Office Memorandum (9/23/75)



- 60 -
of the national electrical network, and construction of
storage and marketing facilities.   In addition, the project
was  to  support  development  and  provision  of  improved
extension service, and organization and training of farmer
groups.
(c) Social   Infrastructure (12%),   including   construction   of
primary schools, small rural health centers and drinking
water systems, and provision of materials for self-help
village improvement projects.
In addition, the project was to support the activities of the new Center
for Rural Development Research (CIDER) which would carry out, inter alia,
project-related evaluation and research.
Physical Targets
3.02      Table 3.1 shows appraisal estimates of physical targets for 16
components in 30 micro-regions over the three-year project period.
Estimates were made on the basis of a review of 15 micro-regional plans,
extrapolating for the other 15. Targets for the medium-term (three-year)
investment plans were approximate; specific targets would be set yearly
when budgeting for individual sub-projects was done.
Project Impact - Production and Benefits
3.03      Estimates were made of the benefits expected to accrue to project
beneficiaries when investments financed under the project were completed
and began to operate. Estimated yield increases were based on field trials
and experience under similar ecological conditions in Mexico, given
improvements in land preparation and cultivation practices, irrigation
and/or moisture control, and increased use of improved seeds, fertilizers,
and pesticides. A development period of eight years was assumed.
Appraisal estimates of average yield increases for major crops expected to
result from project actions are shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2 Appraisal Yield Estiaates
Unit       Before        At Full
Development Development
Maize (irrigated in
semi-arid area)                      kg/ha          750           2,500
Beans (irrigated and
interplanted with
maize in semi-arid area)             kg/ha          200              500
Maize (1,200 mm rainfall)                    kg/ha        1,200           1,700
Beans (1,200 mm rainfall
and interplanted)                    kg/ha          300             400
Maize (800 mm rainfall)                      kg/ha          850           1,100
SOURCE: SAR, p. 24



- 61 -
Table 3.1 Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER
Type and Distribution of Project Investments
Unit       Total
Units     Cost    Investment
Unit    Served   (US$)  (US$ Million)
I. Directly Productive Total
A.  Infrastructure                                                       75
Livestock                         no.         800   26,000        21
Irrigation                        ha       30,000    1,200        35
Soil and Water Conservation       ha       91,000       104       10
Beekeeping                                    -         -           1
Fruit Production                  ha        9,500       650        6
Forestry and Fisheries                        -         -          2
B.  Credit                                                                64
1-Development Credit
Cattle & Irrigation Support                  -        -           27
Fruit Production                 ha       75,000      250         19
2.Incremental Seasonal
Production Credit                ha      120,000      150         18
II.  Productive Support, Total                                             47
Feeder Roads                      km        1,900    6,800         13
Demonstration and Extension    no. of         400      -           15
staff
Farmer Organization              no. of       250      -            6
staff
Marketing                       markets/       65   14,000           1
stores
Electrification                 persons  160,000         85        12
III.  Social Infrastructure, Total                                          25
Health Centers and Posts          no,         290   11,000           3
Primary Education             classrooms   1,150    5,000           6
Drinking Water                  persons  170,000         75         13
Self-Help Projects              persons   85,000        40          3
IV.  Evaluation                                                             1
V.  Total Base Line Cost                             -         -         212
Contingencies
Physical                                       -         -          15
Price                                          -         -         68
VI.  Total Project Cost                               -         -         295
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, April 16, 1975, p.9



- 62 -
3.04      After a development period of about eight years these yields
would lead to the increases in production levels shown in Table 3.3. By
the end of the eight-year development period, increased levels of
production were expected to raise real farmer incomes for about 120,000
producers from an average of US$440 per farm to US$700 per farm for rainfed
areas and to US$1,000 per farm benefitting from new irrigation works.
Table 3.3      Appraisal Production Estimates
Base-year       Incremental       Incremental
Production       Production   Marketed Surplus
1,000 tons   --
Maize
Irrigated                          -                 60              40
Rainfed                            1,100            140              70
Beans                                   70              40             20
Beef                                    90              25             20
Fruits and Vegetables                   40              10              5
Source: SAR p.25.
Cost and Financing
3.05      Project costs were estimated at US$295 million, including
contingencies, winich represented about 39% of base cost. At the prevailing
exchange rate of Mexx$12.5 per US$1, costs in local currency were estimated
at Mex$3,682 million. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$50



- 63 -
million, or 17% of base cost. Development credit and incremental
production credit accounted for about 21% and 9% respectively of base cost,
and evaluation accounted for .3% (less than US$1 million). No separate
estimate was made for project management costs.
3.06      An average of 37% of total project costs was to be financed by
the Bank loan of US$110 million. The Bank would not finance seasonal
production credit or the evaluation component. The disbursement percentage
for all eligible project costs was to be 40%, except for development
credit, which was to be 48%. The remaining costs were to be shared by
Government and beneficiaries, as shown in Table 3.4. Government's share
was to be US$178 million (61%) and beneficiaries share, US$7 million (2%).
IV. PROJECT IMPEMENTATION
4.01      The loan was forecast to be fully disbursed in three years; in
fact, disbursement took nearly five years (see Annex II). Though
investments proceeded on or ahead of schedule in the first year, a series
of administrative changes, beginning with the inauguration of a new
Presidential administration in December 1976, interrupted progress for a
number of months. The new President eliminated the Ministry of the
Presidency (under which PIDER had been administered), and set up a new
Ministry (Programming and Budgeting) in its place. Management of the PIDER
program was placed under this new Ministry (SPP), and, though Presidential
support continued and budgetary allocations grew, there ensued a period of
uncertain leadership which adversely affected both execution of the project
itself and the administrative work necessary to report expenditures for
reimbursement from IBRD.
Project Cost and Financing
4.02      The project was designed so that the thousands of actual
sub-projects would be identified, planned, and executed during
implementation; accordingly, the sectoral breakdown of appraisal estimates
was necessarily indicative. Actual and estimated costs can therefore only
be compared on an individual sub-project basis. It is clear, however, that
international and domestic inflation, the major devaluation of the peso in
1976, and the unsettled economic conditions in Mexico which accompanied the
devaluation had adverse effects on cost. The price escalation factors
which had been allowed in appraisal estimates were substantially lower in
many areas than the increases in unit costs which actually occurred.
Inflation totalled 169% during the 1975-79 period in Mexico.l/
Nevertheless, unit costs were not uniformly higher than appraisal
estimates, as shown in Table 4.1.
4.03      The most drastic price disturbance appears to have occurred as a
result of the devaluation in August/September 1976, when the value of the
peso fell from Mex$12.5/US$ to Mex$26/US$. Though it later stabilized
around Mex$23/US$, foreign exchange costs (accounting for 17% of appraisal
1/ IBRD,Report No.3605-ME: Mexico: Development Strategy - Prospects and
Problems. August 31, 1981, p. 112.



- 64 -
Table 3.4: Government and Beneficiary Share in Project Planning:
Appraisal Estimates
Beneficiaries                  Government
Components                        Amount      %                   Amount   %
US$ millions    -         -
Project Cost
A. Infrastructure                 0          0                    45      60
B. Development Credit             2          5                    23      47 a/
C. Incremental Seasonal
Production Credit             -          -                    18    100
Productive Support                2          4                    29      60
Social Infrastructure             1          4                    13      52
Evaluation                        -          -                     1      100
Contingencies                     2          3                    49       60
Share in Total
Project Cost                      7          2                    178      61
a/ Participating banks 10%, Government 37%
Source: SAR, p18.



Table 4.1        IEXICO:_IntSfrated Rural Develop-nont Px!ject--PtERj  I
Unit Custs
Avers e for 30 Hlcro-0-Rgiuns
Appratial Estimates                                                                  A.tul
PbHysItal Targets                          8eneECiiClarIes               U      l PYIlca- TsargtJ                       IBaaIic Iar .Es
Units  unyt cost         Units       -     -~~~~tf1s. Costs      Unlits                Uni1t Cost         Ussits           flint Co~St
(19;! rices)             -               (3925   ic,ca-,)                         urcs    ic.)         -i:,r,.I' 
(Per)                                    (Per)                                   (Per)                         _U__rit (P-1r)-i
Olfoctiy Productive
Irrigatlufl                               ha                   1,200              Producer            4.000 1/            ha                      907              Producer           2,018
Soil anid  water Conservation             Ila                    304              Producer              n.s.              84                       8S              Producer             335
FruJt Cro,p Development                  ha                      650               Producer             t.4.              ha                    1.267              ProI.hcer            941
Livestock                                 Unit                26.000                                    U.S.              Unit                 30.988 2t           Producer             355
Prod,sct tyI SV pport
F-eder Roads                             Km.                   6.800              Person               n.s.               Lz                   6.270               Parson                61
K,sr:l Electirfication                   Km                      n.S.             Person                  a5              Km                  14.035               Person                62
R,ural Harketing
Silos                             |                        14.000               Producer              954.8 1/          Wareohouse 3/    156.600                Prodticer             451
Streirs                           I                                              *prsonl              144.2 It          Stores              50.000              Peason                 14
Li vveiitak                                                   n.e.                                   n.e.               flundlcattle             28             Producers             251
Agr cIClt Itu                          ha                       15              Producer                7S              l.a                      IS              Prodticer             62
SocialI litrastriuctture
Classroos.a                               Unit  (1150)         5,000               Pupil                 130 1/            Units (1612)         5,414              Pupil                 105
IILoatit Centers                          Unit  (290)'        11.000               Person                 43 1/            UnlLts (277)        14.278              Person                 74
Rural Water Supply                                               n.a.              Persoln                66 1/            Sy;tess (762)       23.294              Perseon               41
Self-ael5. flatertals                                            n.s.              Parson                 56 1/            Vila6e               3.000              Pegson                 80
1/ SPP estlmates based on yearly btidgeting.
1/ Averdge of all types; unit costs for beef and dairy units significatntly higher.
3/ For 5 warai.houses/sIlos of 900 ton capacity each.
Soiurce: SAlt. April 16, 1975. p. 9; SPP.  valtiaction dtl Credito  1l0-HEk   Decceber 23. 1981.                                                                                                                    H
p}
II)
CD
Ht



- 66 -
base cost estimates) were virtually doubled.  Both the policies leading up
to the devaluation and the compensatory price changes made by individual
firms immediately afterwards contributed to accelerated domestic
inflation. These changes occurred unevenly in the economy, however, and it
is possible that, rather than causing uniform project cost increases, the
principal effect of devaluation was to slow down dollar disbursements.
This was a concern of supervision missions at the time.
Physical Targets
4.04      Table 4.2 shows a comparison of physical infrastructure targeted
at appraisal with that built during the project period. In most cases,
targets were achieved or exceeded. Notable examples of the latter are
irrigation, soil and water conservation, and feeder roads, under which
physical achievement as a proportion of appraisal estimate was 161% , 250%
and 254%, respectively.  (It should be noted that works which were
incomplete in 1979 have not been counted with project benefits, nor have
persons benefitting from those works been counted as project
beneficiaries.) Evaluation of physical performance is not possible for some
components, for which no specific targets were specified at appraisal (for
example, forestry, fisheries, and livestock sub-components). In the case
of some social infrastructure components (rural water supply and self-help
projects), units of measure estimated at appraisal do not correspond to
units of measure used to monitor and evaluate project progress.
Problems Encountered in Implementation
4.05      Observations regarding expenditure and/or target shortfalls in
the group of six micro-regions illustrate the experience and the types of
problems which occurred during implementation in all 30 micro-regions (See
Annex I). Components which consisted, largely of purchase or provision of
materials showed expenditures close to 100Z of authorized budget. Those
which involved public civil works (roads, electrification, schools, etc.)
also showed expenditures close to budget, though in many cases, physical
targets were not fully achieved. One reason for this was the fact that the
fiscal year was out of phase with the seasons: by the time the budget was
approved in March or April, the dry season was nearly over. Construction
then had to be delayed until September, resulting in increased material and
labor costs. Since agencies could not overspend their authorized budgets,
the final effect at year end was generally failure to achieve physical
targets, though in many cases the lost construction time also resulted in
less spending than authorized. This problem has since been solved through
new regulations under which the annual budgetary process begins in July at
the State level, and through the Acuerdo de Secas of 1979, under which
funds for January through March are authorized by November 15, and actual
transfer to the states takes place prior to January 15.
4.06      The greatest problem was encountered in implementing on-farm
productive sub-projects. The principal reasons for delays or shortfalls in
this type of investment fall into three major categories, though they often
appeared in combination with each other: beneficiary organization, adaptive
research and extension, and credit. First, the issues related to
beneficiary organization center around communication between
program-coordinating and line-agency personnel on the one hand, and the



TABLE 4.2  PIIYSICAL TARGETS: ACIIIEVED AND APPRAISAL EStIHATES
-  Actual  Achlievement    --- ------------------------- ------- --      --- - -- -
_______----- Number of Vorks --------                            Capacity
Appraisal          Fli,,lshd a         Finished Not    U.arks
Units             Estimate           Operatin.           Yet Operating   Unfinished           Ulnits             Achleved
Directly Productive
Irrig:it Wn                         ha                  30.000              566                36                85                ha                  48.340
S-i-  and Vater Coniservation       ha                 91,000              25i                20                 6                 ha                227,650
Frult Crop Development.
Forestry. Fisheries
a. Orchard Establishment         ha                  9.500 2/            209                52               III                ha                   8.285 2/
b. Coffee Development            -                      -                  I                 0                52
c. Forestry                                        n.m. 11                43                 8                 0                                       n.e.
d. Fisheries                                       n.m. Ti                21                 0       *         I                               .       u.s.
Livestock Infrastructure            No. Units              800              1?  3/            106 3/            106 3/
a. Iteef and Da;ry                 -                 -                                     T7I                54                fied                79,057
b. Coats                            -                                     16                43                13                Hlead               35.977
c. Sheep                           -                                      16                 1                 7                Head                   402
d. Pigs                             -                 -                   28                19                 7                iheal 4/             4.436
e. Poultry                          -                 -                   17           .    0                  4                Birds              128.221
E. Rabbits                         -                 -                    19                 0                 0                Rabbits 4/          29.566
g. Uater Storage for
L.lvstock & D.mestic use    -                    -                  347                24                 21               lhead              164,287
h. beekeepi.ng                                     n.m. 1/               336                34                                  H Hives             23.467
Credit
a. Developmenit Credit           ha                  75,000               -                 -                  _                                      n.a.
b. Seasonul Credit               ba                120,000                -                 -                  -                                      n.a.
Prodluctive Support
Feeder Roats I                       KM                  1.900              5t9                36                33                 Km                  4.824
Rural Electificatton                 Persons           160,000              563                20                  0                Km                   1,139.5
IH:rket Ing                      Stores/Wareh,oi,sem        65               70                  3                21                Tons Cap.          10.050
Extenslon                            No. of Staff          400               -                  -                  -                ha              1,422.156
Farmer Organization                  No. of Staff          250               -                  -                  -                 ludons              1.230
Social Infrastrtucture
Health Centers                       Nu.                   290              235                 22               46                 No.                    25 76/
Priilmry Education,                  Classrooms          1.150              983                12                 10                Classrooms           1,612-'
Drinking Watur                       Peraons           170,000              694                68                 31                Persons            428.260
Self-heip Projects                   Persons            85.000            1.284                  3                 0                                    48,340
1/ No appraisal estimate
2/ Group fruit and coffee developmrent together.
3/ Susis do ,ot include beekeepinlg (no appraisal estimate for beekeeping).
41 E1stimsate IY for annuasil production capacity.
S/ AppIralsal ebtimate units not comparable.
61  niluldtll.es  115   _klth CLuters averagisilg 4 beds each, and 142 Day Clinlcs.
71 Avcra8,, capacity 52 st,.de,lts.
S..u,!c.,: SAR. 1,. 9; SI'P. Lval.,clon det Credito IIIO-ME. Dec. 23, 1981



- 68 -
beneficiaries themselves on the other.  In order to be motivated to form
and maintain organized groups, to contribute what was expected, and to
properly maintain and operate on-farm infrastructure, beneficiaries had to
be well informed regarding what the project would involve, what benefits
could be expected and over what timespan, and what would be required of
them, both during the construction phase and later on during the operating
phase.  In the early years of the PIDER program, however, the importance of
communication with the beneficiaries was not always clearly recognized by
those working at field level. A number of state representatives
interviewed emphasized the need for training personnel to listen and
respect the concerns of beneficiaries as well as to explain thoroughly the
benefits and costs of the alternative sub-projects. Since dialogue with
beneficiaries broke down in many cases, the fact that a given beneficiary
group disintegrated by the time construction was complete was often not
recognized until the time came to put the work into operation (e.g. see
para 4.09). For the same reason, true participation of the beneficiaries
in the various phases of sub-project life was impossible. That is, since
they had not been thoroughly informed, nor, in many cases, given a choice
of investments, they often considered the works to be the government's
property, and, therefore, the government's responsibility. /
4.07      A second category of factors which were crucial to making
productive investments operational are those relating to technical
assistance: availability of well-adapted technical packages, timely
delivery of inputs, and adequate provision of assistance itself. The
importance of the first factor was emphasized at appraisal, and the
condition of effectiveness regarding extension (para 2.13) was a result of
recognition of the need for better-adapted technical packages. The program
of applied research was less successful in development of technical
packages suitable to the conditions and existing levels of technology on
ejidos and small farms than had been hoped. An example of this type of
technical problem is that encountered by CONAFRUT in a number of regions
with its program of orchard establishment. That is, though the general
type of tree or plant chosen was known to grow well in the area, it was
found that the specific variety chosen (of peaches, apples, etc.) did not
adapt well to local conditions. Thus, efforts to improve on local
varieties were frustrated. A similar result was experienced by BANRURAL in
its efforts to introduce improved breeds of livestock in many areas.
Though the beneficiaries were insured against mortality of new stock, their
initial experiences with technological change were discouraging. In some
cases the package itself was judged adequate and advice to the producers
appropriate, but delivery of the critical elements was not timely. The
most common example is that of the delivery of fertilizer or seed too late
for proper application.
4.08      Technical assistance was provided by a number of agencies.  SARH
provided extension service for general agriculture, CONAFRUT for fruit
crops, INMECAFE for coffee, and both SARH and BANRURAL for livestock. The
effectiveness of the assistance programs varied among these agencies, and
within each agency, the quality of technical assistance programs varied
i/  SPP officials have recognized that the success of the program depends
on establishing procedures which will facilitate effective
communication with beneficiaries and will integrate their participation
into all phases of project implementation, from planning through
productive operation (see paras 5.11 and 6.02).



- 69 -
from state to state.  According to SPP representatives, the number and
quality of agents which an agency had on its staff and the quality of
supervision of the agents depended on the state-level agency's emphasis on
small farmer production and on the relative difficulty of conditions in the
state. Officials commented on the difficulty of attracting and keeping
well-qualified staff in the more remote and poorer areas. A few examples
were cited illustrating the problems that inadequate technical staffing can
cause. In one state, the BANRURAL veterinarian responsible for assisting
the pig units left suddenly. In the three-week period before he could be
replaced, an out-break of porcine cholera (with which the beneficiaries had
had no previous experience) had caused substantial stock losses.
4.09      The third category, that of credit availability, relates to both
of the others, and presents problems which are among the most difficult to
solve. In many cases, timely provision of adequate credit required
coordination among several entities (e.g. SARE, contractors, and BANRURAL),
as well as clear communicaton with beneficiaries. BANRURAL regulations
sometimes seemed to undermine the efficient delivery of credit, however.
For example, beneficiaries of land clearing were not allowed to apply for
credit for improved seed and fertilizer until the BANRURAL agent had
verified that the work was complete. Often, by the time the approval
process was complete and credit was granted, it was too late for planting,
one crop cycle was lost, and the field preparation had to be redone for the
next cycle.
4.10      Among livestock sub-projects are numerous examples which
illustrate the types of difficulties encountered in provision of credit.
The executing agency for such projects was usually BANRURAL, which was
responsible for construction, stocking (credit), and providing technical
assistance. Before plans for such sub-projects were approved for PIDER
financing, a letter of commitment for necessary credit from BANRURAL was
required. This in turn required that the group of beneficiaries who would
be responsible for the operation be organized (i.e., each member must sign
a letter confirming his interest in participating), and the ejido must have
no defaulted debts. In a number of cases, once the unit was ready to be
stocked, some of the original group of beneficiaries had moved away or lost
interest. Before BANRURAL would go forward with the project, a new group
had to be organized. In other cases, during the time between the planning
of the project and the completion of construction (at least several crop
cycles), the ejido or group had defaulted on short-term production loans.
4.11      In s=mmary, the major problems which arose during implementation
of PIDER I highlight the importance of the elements upon which the Bank had
insisted from the beginning. Organization of beneficiaries, development of
clear communication with them, and inclusion of beneficiaries in an active
participatory role from the early planning stages were crucial to even the
construction of works. In addition to these, availability of suitable
technical packages, and the timely provision of adequate technical
assistance and credit were essential to the operation of sub-projects, upon
which expected production and income benefits ultimately depended.
Cost Recovery
4.12      One of the issues given special attention at appraisal was the
set of arrangements to be made by the Government of Mexico to assure



- 70 -
beneficiary contribution to investment costs and responsibility for
operating and maintenance costs (para 2.11). Arrangements were specified
in the formal loan agreements 1/ and supervision missions attempted to
verify compliance with those agreements. In general, it was found that,
where beneficiary contribution was in the form of materials or land (e.g.
for building site of a health center), contribution was required on a
regular basis. Where beneficiaries were asked to contribute labor, it was
found that Government policy was to pay them at the rate of one-half the
official Minimum Daily Wage. However, it was often difficult to verify
actual numbers of days worked by beneficiaries. In some areas, contractors
preferred not to employ beneficiaries, for a number of reasons, including
their belief that the work went faster (and costs were therefore minimized)
by employment of permanent work crews. Use of beneficiary labor tended to
be greater in more remote areas.
4.13      Compliance with agreements regarding water charges (which were to
cover maintenance as well as operating costs) were generally reported
unsatisfactory, but in line with national policy. It was impossible to
verify the record of PIDER beneficiaries with respect to loan repayment, as
that data was not kept by FIRA (an arm of BANXICO, the signatory of the
Project Agreement). In any event, most medium-term loans were not yet due
for full repayment by the end of the project period.
Project Impact
A. Beneficiaries
4.14      SPP estimates indicate that between 150,000 and 170,000 producers
have benefitted from directly productive investments made under PIDER I,
compared with appraisal estimates of 120,000 (para 3.04). The wide margin
allows for fluctuation in the size of beneficiary groups and for the fact
that in some cases, the same group may benefit from more than one type of
investment. For example, a sub-project for fruit crop development may
utilize part of a small-scale irrigation scheme also financed under the
project. For the same reason, it is not possible to sum all the
beneficiaries of productive support or social infrastructure components.
Table 4.4 shows the total number of beneficiaries by component.
B. Employment Generated
4.15      In addition to those producers benefitting most from project
investments due to their ownership of land use rights, it was estimated at
appraisal that some 84,000 man-years of work would be required during the
construction phase of all three categories of investments and approximately
30,000 permanent jobs would be created in the operating phase of productive
investments. During the four-year project period, it is estimated that
total temporary employment generated was about 6,800 man-years equivalent.
Monitoring during the execution of works counted employment generated in
terms of man-days rather than man-years, since construction work was not
steady, due to weather and other external factors. SPP estimated total
number of temporary man-days generated were 1,088,450, and a conversion
factor of 160 man-days per man-year has been used for the sake of
comparison. 2/ Much of the labor-demand created by construction of
project-financed works is obviously highly seasonal; therefore the analysis
17 Guarantee Agreement, Article III.
2/ SPP, Evaluacion del Credito 1110-ME, Dec. 23, 1981.



Table 4.4    MEXICO: lntegrated Rural Development Project - PI1)ER I
Benefici.aries
Units                        Total
Irrigation                                          Producers                        21,700
Soil and Water Conservation                         Producers                        57,390
Livestock Infrastructure                            Producers                        77,150
Fruit Crop Development
(incl. forestry & fisheries)                      Producers                        11,140
ExLension                                           Producers                       335,680
Farmer Organtzaton & Training 1/                    Population 1/                   602,000
Feeder Roads                                        Population                      491,912
Rural Electrification                                Producers                        1,730
Population                     258,000                       F-
Rural Marketing                                      Producers 2/                    18,330
Population 3/                  121,340
Classroom Constructions                              Pupils                          83,420
Ilealtth Centers                                     Population                     534,800
Rural Water Supply                                   Population                     428,260
Self-help Materials                                  Population                      48,340
1/ Indicates number of people assisted annually.
2/ Beneficiaries of warehouse construction.
3/ Beneficiaries of Rural Stores                                                                                        Er
Source:  SPP, Evaluacion del Credito 1110-ME, December 23, 1981



- 72 -
of equivalent man-years ought not to be pushed too far.
4.16       A similar difficulty occurs in comparing permanent "jobs created"
with appraisal estimates. The case of livestock is the only one for which
it can be said that a given number of persons per unit have been provided
wi.th permanent, full-time jobs. In the case of irrigation, soil and water
conservation, and fruit crop development, incremental labor required is of
a seasonal nature. Even for livestock sub-projects some seasonal work is
required for maintenance of infrastructure.  Thus, estimates of permanent
eniployment generated were done on the basis of man-days per year of
incremental labor required for the operation of productive investments.
Total number of permanent annual man-days generated is about 10,900,000
which breaks down as follows: about 5 million each for maintenance and
cultivation of newly irrigated land, and land improved or newly cleared
under the soil and water conservation component; about 200,000 for
operation and maintenance of new livestock units and infrastructure; and
about 700,000 for maintenance and cultivation of new orchards or coffee
groves 1/. Again, for the sake of comparison, division by 160 gives some
68,100 man-years equivalent.
C. Production and Income
4.17       By the end of the 1981 cropping cycle, a number of the
sub-projects financed under PIDER I were not yet operating-either because
construction had just been completed (though begun in 1979), or because
they lacked credit for some essential element. Others, particularly fruits
and other perennials, were operating, but had not yet reached productive
maturity. Most orchards planted in 1979 would not begin to yield fruit in
marketable quantities until 1984 or later. In addition, experience during
imiplementation showed that appraisal expectations regarding development of
technical packages, provision of extension service, and rates at which
beneficiaries were able to assimilate and adopt new technologies were
overly optimistic (paras 3.03-3.04). For these reasons, it appears that
th.e development period of eight years assumed at appraisal is
unrealistically short, considering both the nature of activities and the
characteristics of the beneficiaries of this type of project 2/. It was
also discovered during implementation that average baseline yields
estimated at appraisal were higher than real average yields of PIDER
beneficiaries. This was probably due to the fact that the original data
were based on area-wide averages, and included data for some medium- to
large-scale farms. For the six micro-regions considered in detail,
production flows were re-estimated using statistically reported yields for
the period 1975-80. Table 4.5 shows yield and production figures,
ccmparing appraisal estimates, reported baseline and 1980 figures, and
those currently projected for 1990.
4.18       Real incomes have paralleled the slower-than-expected increases
in. production. Family income was expected to double in eight years from an
average of US$440 equivalent. Based on current production levels, it is
1/ Ibid
2/ The same conclusion was drawn in the Mid-Term Evaluation Report, paras
3.07-3.08.



Table 4.5a.    Yields:  Appraisal Estimates vs. Current Figures
Appraisal Estimate                                        Current Estimates
Yields                                      Range of average yields across
Before       Full                Rainfall                   6 micro-regions
Pider    Development             Conditions       Before       1975-1979       1990
---- kg/ha                           /yrkg/h------------
Rainfed
Maize (800mm rainfall)       850          1,100             (500-600)           200-450   580-640   900-1,200
Maize (1200mm rainfall)  1,200            1,700             (900-1,400)         600-900   820-900 2,000-3,000
Beans (1200min rainfall)    300             400             (500-1,400)         100-300   340-500   600-1500
Irrigated (semi-arid area)
Maize                        750          2,500                                 900        1,660         3,000
Beans (intercropped)         200            500             (sole crop)         600          740         2,000               w
H
In
0



Table 4.5b.  Production: Appraisal Estimates vs. Current Figures
Total for 30 micro-regionsl/
Base          Full           Inc.                                       Full         Inc.
Year     Development        Prod.                Baseyear    1980   Development   Prod. 2/
--              Luau t9"9  ----------            -------------   tons --------------
1990      1980          1990
Maize                  1,100,000    1,300,000        200,000                  54,760   111,501   343,500        54,490    196,50
Beans                     70,000       110,000        40,000                   9,030    25,20       65,010      15,990      39,99
Fruits and Vegetables    40,000         50,000        10,000                   9,600    19,200   124,830         5,640    109,41
Beef                      90,000       115,000        25,000                  90,000       n.a.    95,900          -         5,90
1/ Totals for 30 micro-regions extrapolated from totals for 6 micro-regions.
2/ Incremental production figures are noi, a direct reflection of yield changes, as cropping patterns have changed
since base year.
Source: SAR, April 16, 1975, pp 24--25; SPP, Evaluacion del Credito 1110-ME.
'-I
9,
0n



- 75 -
now estimated that real family income for beneficiaries will reach an
average of USS1,440 equivalent by 1990. Some communities have already
obtained substantial increases and have not only made improvements in their
dwellings, clothes, and so forth, but have extended on-farm investments on
their own account. Current average annual incomes of beneficiaries have
increased by about US$160 equivalent.
D. Economic Returns
4.19      At appraisal, economic rates of return were estimated for six
micro-regions and varied from 11% to 23%, averaging 16%. Costs included
all directly productive investments plus costs of extension, farmer
organization, feeder roads, electrification, and marketing. Benefits were
estimated for directly productive investments only. Shadow prices for
labor were used, varying from 40% to 70% of the official minimum daily
wage. It was estimated that the average rate of return would fall between
11% and 13%, if labor were valued at 100% of the official minimum daily
wage 1/.
4.20      The economic rate of return was re-estimated based on:
reportedbenefits obtained through 1980, and projected through 1990;
investment, operating and maintenance costs, for the same components as
those considered at appraisal; constant 1975 prices for both costs and
benefits; labor valued at 100% of the official minimum daily wage. The
last assumption was made based on findings that the market wage in the
project areas (and in most rural areas) was substantially higher than the
official minimum daily wage. In addition, the strong tendency for workers
to emigrate from many rural areas to seek higher wages suggests that labor
should be evaluated in a context larger than the project areas in
isolation.    A 15-year development period was used. for most components in
recalculating benefit flows. For cost and benefit flows of 15 years, rates
of return varied from 2% to 16% across micro-regions (6% for all six
micro-regions taken together). The lower rates of return are largely due
to delays in start-up of operation of livestock infrastructure and orchard
development, and more gradual increases in output than had been assumed
initially. For example, in Sinaloa, where livestock infrastructure was a
substantial part of overall investment, start-up of operation and output
was delayed in a number of livestock units for five years. The delayed
benefit stream reduced the rate of return substantially (from 11% to 6%).
In Yucatan, a substantial proportion of agricultural investment consisted
of orchard development. Many of the orchards were planted in 1978-1979,
and have not yet begun to produce marketable quantities of fruit.
Considering this longer-term development period, and a 25-year stream of
benefits and costs, rates of return vary from 11% to 20% (15% overall).
4.21      Since relatively heavy livestock investments appeared to be a
major factor causing low rates of return in several micro-regions, separate
calculations were made for crops only. These results varied from .4% to 21%
(11% overall) for 15-year streams, and from 13% to 24% (16% overall) for
25-year streams.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE
5.01     The management --ructure of the PIDER program evolved during the
7 SAR, p.29.



- 76 -
project period in response both to changes in Presidential administations
with accompanying major bureaucratic reorganizations and tochanges within
the program itself. In 1976, when President Lopez Portillo took office,
the Secretariat of the Presidency, under which the PIDER program was
organized and funded, was eliminated. In its place, a new Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting (SPP) was created, and management of PIDER placed
within it. Under Presidencia, the program had been headed by a "Permanent
Working Group," which, by virtue of its position within the bureaucracy,
had the aura of a unique, strongly centralist cadre. This strong direction
from the center was suited to the initial phase when planning and operating
procedures had to be established and personnel trained. As the program
grew, however, it was not only desirable but necessary to delegate many
functions to the state level. This was done by giving major
operational/coordinating responsibility to the state delegations of SPP.
This policy was reinforced in 1978-79, when the administration of the
program was moved from Regional Planning to the Office of the General
Coordinator of State Delegations (both within SPP). A General Directorate
of Integrated Rural Development was created, whose principal responsibility
was the progress of the PIDER program.
5.02      Decentralization of the administration of PIDER was accompanied
by a number of procedural innovations which have served to increase the
efficiency of funding through the program at the same time that the
bureaucratic machinery was growing. One of the most important of these was
the shift of disbursement authority from Mexico City to the SPP State
Delegate in 1977. The procedure had been initiated in a few states in 1974
on an experimental basis. The new procedure involved authorization of a
payment voucher on the basis of a check of field supervision reports
against a contractor's or agency's invoice. The payment voucher was then
given to the contractor who could cash it directly at the local branch of
the Bank of Mexico. A PIDER account was established with the bank in each
state, based on annual budgetary authorizations. This new procedure
resulted in a payment process several times faster than that of programs
with centrally authorized payment systems.  There was evidence that this in
turn resulted in some project cost savings, since contractors were often
willing to lower their costs when they were not obliged to wait many months
for payment.  In addition, it was felt that by exercising disbursement
authority, the state coordinator was able to exert greater quality control
over construction work funded by the program. 1/
Program and Agency Coordination
5.03      Experience during project implementation made clear the crucial
importance of effective coordination among executing agencies to both the
construction and operation of investments (paras 4.06-4.11).  Various types
of problems stemming from lack of effective coordination were identified
during the project period, and attempts were made to discover ways to
coordinate agency actions more effectively.2/ Not only were coordination
mechanisms examined, but the organizational structure of the administration
I/ IBRD, Mexico: Rural Development Project    PIDER I: Mid-Term Evaluation
Report, August, 1979, pp.20-21.
2/ Ibid



- 77 -
of the program was re-evaluated in an effort to accomplish this goal.
Actions taken on the basis of this re-evaluation affect PIDER II and III
(para 6.03).
5.04      Until early 1976, coordination of the PIDER program was to be
accomplished at the federal and state levels by PIDER Coordinating
Committees chaired at the federal level by the Director of Public
Investments (in Presidencia) and at the state level by the Governor. These
committees met about every two to three months and were attended by the
representatives of the participating agencies. These meetings were
generally too large and formal to achieve any real coordination effort;
their importance was due to their drawing together for the first time the
numerous agencies involved in executing the program to provide a forum for
mutual communication of their objectives and activities. This arrangement
allowed unprecedented coordination of investment planning at the
micro-region level. At the sub-project level, however, plans were still
designed independently by the respective executing agencies. For project
execution, PIDER (Presidencia) state staff attempted to coordinate the
various activities on an ad hoc basis. This did not prove adequate in
view of the strong coordination needs required by many components of the
program.
5.05      In 1977, when SPP was created and responsibility for PIDER was
placed with that secretariat, two arrangements were made to strengthen
program coordination. First, based on the favorable reception of the PIDER
state coordinating committees, State Committees for the Promotion of State
Development (COPRODES) were set up to plan investments at the state level
for all funding programs. The COPRODES were chaired by the Governor, and
since they coordinated the planning for all governmental programs within
the state, they allowed for greater complementarity of public investments
than had the earlier system. Early in 1978, SPP set up state-level
sub-committees to focus on individual sectors or groups of related
activities. The sub-groups met to discuss both PIDER and non-PIDER
activities, in order to provide practical guidelines for the timing,
integration, and spatial location of the various activities. However,
there was little change in mechanisms to coordinate agency actions during
execution of individual sub-projects.
5.06      The mid-term evaluation of PIDER I, carried out by the Bank, SPP
and CIDER, identified as the most crucial factor impeding program
coordination the lack of legitimacy of PIDER (that is, SPP) as a
coordinating body: other ministries and agencies did not recognize the
authority of SPP to influence the timing or quality of the performance of
their activities. The Mid-Term Evaluation Report suggested the need for a
Presidential Decree renewing the administation's commitment to the program
and legitimizing SPP's coordinating role with respect to PIDER-funded
activities.l/ The problem remained unresolved until 1981, when the
program's administrative strategy was redesigned (para 6.03).
Agency Strengthening
5.07      The Mid-Term Evaluation stated that "PIDER's eventual success in
program coordination and in achieving its objectives rests on PIDER's
ability to strengthen the executing agencies in carrying out PIDER's
poverty-oriented tasks. This dimension was not sufficiently recognized at
1/ Ibid, p.27.



- 78 -
the outset of the program."11 This issue arose from recognition of the
fact that many of the difficulties arising both in sub-project execution
and in making investments function stemmed from lack of poverty-group focus
in many agencies' normal programs. The persistence of agencies' usual
orientation resulted in insufficient appreciation of the importance of
suiting design of sub-projects to the general level of sophistication of
beneficiaries, of developing technologies adapted to both ecological
conditions and economic scale of producers, and of communicating
effectively the obligations for maintenance, repayment, and so forth, which
were required of beneficiaries. Some agencies were unwilling to adapt
their investment criteria to PIDER beneficiaries. In states where a given
agency-'s budget was relatively large, the agency could refuse to execute
PIDER-funded investments; even in cases where PIDER funds represented a
substantial increase in total budget, SPP's efforts to strengthen the
agency's target-group focus achieved limited success. The Mid-Term report
stated later that such strengthening would depend largely on the
establishment of PIDER's (i.e. SPP's) legitimacy in coordination, which in
turn would rest mainly on the extent of budgetary control (determined by
the proportion of PIDER funds to total agency budget). The question arises
as to whether it was realistic to cast the agency responsible for the PIDER
program into the role (not anticipated at appraisal) of enforcer
of agency reform, given the simultaneous struggle to establish the
legitimacy of the program's administration as agency coordinator. In any
event, the issue of strengthening of agency target-group focus and programs
has since been addressed from outside the PIDER program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08      The plans for monitoring and, evaluation of PIDER I, set out in
broad terms at appraisal, outlined a dual system: the monitoring of
physical and financial progress under the project would be done by an
internal management information system, while evaluation of project impact
would be carried out by a semi-autonomous Rural Development Research Center
(CIDER). The management information system evolved during the project
period into a relatively efficient working system which allowed expenditure
control and accurate tallying of construction results. However, best use
of the system to overcome delays or other problems in construction required
corresponding systems within executing agencies, and the ability of
management of those agencies to respond to the information and correct the
problems. In many agencies, either the information system or the
management response was lacking during the project period.
5.09      After the construction phase was complete, however, there was a
significant loss in information flow on the status of sub-projects. This
reflected, in part, the lack of formal linkage between CIDER and the PIDER
monitoring system. At the same time, the original concept of the program
as primarily concerned with investment (rather than with the
post-construction, operational phase) persisted among program staff, though
PIDER management had accepted the integrated concept for PIDER 1. Thus,
there was a loss of continuity, due both to the different groups involved
in data gathering and to the focus of those groups.
5.10      It was envisioned at appraisal that "ongoing evaluation" would be
1/ Ibid



- 79 -
undertaken by CIDER. As described in the SAR, this function was conceived
of as both a managment information system regarding project effectiveness
and a system to provide data for and to carry out ex post impact
evaluation. In fact, CIDER developed neither of those capabilities.
Though it produced several useful and interesting studies regarding various
aspects of project impact, its failure to develop a systematic methodology
to monitor specific impact indicators on an ongoing basis resulted in an
inability to evaluate that imparct quantitatively. While CIDER's
shortcomings are clear in retrospect, it should be noted that at the time
of appraisal, neither methodologies nor specific guidelines had been
articulated either in the Bank or in Mexico for carrying out the functions
described in the SAR.
5.11      CIDER played a major role in developing the set of guidelines and
procedures for reprogramming micro-regional investment plans, currently
used by SPP for medium-term planning. The guidelines provide step-by-step
instructions for state planners in analyzing micro-regional resources,
needs, and development priorities; integrating beneficiaries in the
planning process; and selecting sub-projects according to established
criteria. This assistance has made a valuable contribution to the
development of internal planning capacity in SPP which can carry over to
other programs as well. In enumerating CIDER's failures as a true
'Monitoring and Evaluation" unit, these positive contributions ought not to
be overlooked.
VI. REPEATER PROJECTS AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SINCE 1979
6.01      By the end of 1981, the PIDER program had expanded to include 134
micro-regions. Both this expansion and general bureaucratic reform led to
a number of changes in program administration, some of which address the
issues discussed in Chapter V. Both the intent and the effect of these
changes were to decentralize authority for planning and implementation of
PIDER and a number of other programs to the state level.  Some of these
changes affect PIDER II, effective since October 1977 and due for
completion in June 1982. The more recent and significant changes promise
to enhance the impact of PIDER III, signed November 6, 1981, and due to
become effective in May 1982.
6.02      In 1979/80 PIDER management took advantage of preparation of the
third Bank-assisted PIDER Project to rework the methodology for
micro-regional planning, with renewed emphasis on beneficiary participation
in the planning process and on a greater participatory role for state-level
executing agency representatives. While beneficiary participation was
always an objective of the program, the new planning methodology was
designed to provide practical guidelines for ensuring such participation.
The new methodology was tested with a sample of micro-regions, revised, and
the revised methodology then used to reprogram all of the micro-regions
which would be part of PIDER III. Subsequently, it was to be applied to
all PIDER micro-regions.
6.03      In 1981, a major reorganization of the management of all
federally funded programs was effected. The result of this recent
reorganization as it affects PIDER is as follows: first, planning for all
public investment is done at the state level by a state planning and
coordinating committee (COPLADE), with better-defined responsibility than
the COPRODES, which it replaces. The objective of this is to avoid
duplication of effort in planning aind to achieve better distribution of



- 80 -
resources. Second, principal authority for coordination of implementation
of PIDER-funded activities has been placed in the hands of the state
governors. Since governors have considerable power in the states, this is
designed to expedite elimination of bureaucratic bottlenecks, and increase
effective coordination of agencies during implementation of both the
construction and operation phases of the program. A number of instances
have been cited which demonstrate that the exercise of the governor's
authority has indeed improved coordination among implementing agencies, and
in some cases has forced action from agencies which had been lagging in
carrying out PIDER-financed activities. SPP state representatives play a
role of policy and technical advisers to the governors in this arrangement,
and they carry major responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of
program progress and impact. Authority for overall program policy,
strategy, and planning remains with SPP in Mexico City.
SPP Staff Training and Experience
6.04      Within SPP, management of PIDER is headed by well-trained
individuals, all of whom have worked with the program since its inception.
They show strong commitment to poverty-group-focused public investment in
general, and to the PIDER program in particular.
6.05      One problem that has appeared in SPP at state and federal levels
as a result of the reorganization of responsibilities, is that some
uncertainties regarding effective allocation of staff and definition of
roles have arisen in the transition period and still persist. (SPP is
aware of these problems and is taking steps to resolve them.) On the other
hand, a considerable number of trained staff have gained valuable
experience at micro-regional, state, and federal levels, providing an
unusually rich pool of manpower which can be channelled into redefined
functions.
6.06      In order to provide an improved level of training to all of its
PIDER-related staff-including those based in the state and micro-regional
offices-and to strengthen communication of strategies, objectives, and
procedures to staff, SPP has begun a program of staff training through
seminars. The seminars will serve for exchange of problem-solving ideas as
well as for formal training. This training program is being supported
under the FIDER III loan.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.07      An important way in which PIDER management is planning to use its
available human resources is in the development of a new, comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation system. Design of the system and specialized
staff training is well underway.  Until now,monitoring has focused mainly
on physical progress of construction (para 5.08). The new system is
designed to support management decision making in a longer-term
perspective, including not only the construction phase, but the operational
phase as well.
Current Transitions
6.08      At the state and micro-regional levels, SPP staff involve
administration of PIDER are currently engaged in facilitating the shift of



- 81 -
responsibility to the Governor's staff. Representatives of the SPP state
delegations have themselves identified the need for more effective
monitoring and evaluation of PIDER activities and their own need for
additional preparation to carry out these functions. If this retraining
could be accomplished, it would enhance the other emerging role of state
SPP staff i.e., as technical advisers to the state planning office and to
the development planning committee.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01      As noted in Chapter II, the original program concept as developed
by the Mexican Government was characterized by: (a) a public grant
approach; (b) a focus on physical infrastructure investment; and (c) a plan
to reach all ejidos in project areas. Bank input resulted in modification
of program design to include increased software (credit, greater attention
to extension and applied research, farmer organization) to complement
infrastructure; increased attention to cost recovery and beneficiary
contribution to investment; and a sharper target-group focus. With respect
to the last item, the appraisal mission pressed the Mexican planners to
focus on the distribution of program benefits by setting a per-family
investment ceiling, hoping thereby to reach poorer ejidos and more families
within the ejidos; and by including groups of small landowners, as well as
communities legally organized as ejidos. The Bank expressed the concern
that benefits reach the majority of population within communities-an ideal
which proved impracticable for physical-investment-oriented productive
projects, though more achievable for software and social infrastructure
components. The examination of problems stemming from inequitable
distribution of benefits within ejidos has led to the concept of ejido (or
community) planning-a broader perspective than sub-project investment
planning-though, .realistically, the concept will probably not be applied
uniformly for some years.
7.02      The original Mexican plan for the program was ambitious, both in
content and pace of project implementation. There was some concern
expressed in the Bank during preparation and appraisal about the
operability of a program of such size and complexity, though the project as
finally defined and accepted included nearly all of the components of the
Mexican program, plus some additions (e.g. credit). In retrospect, the
comprehensive nature of the program and its wide geographic distribution
were important in enabling the program not only to survive the transition
of presidential administrations, but to expand subsequently. By 1976, the
program was benefitting a substantial proportion of the rural population,
and as a result, could not easily be dismantled.
7.03      The stated objectives were rather ambitious, given a three-year
project period. First, the fact that institutional coordinating mechanisms
were initiated for the program and that staff were inexperienced made it
probable that some policies or actions taken would be on an experimental
basis and might need to be reversed. The advantage of the newness or
inexperience of both institutions and staff was exactly this ability to
develop rather than prescribe solutions to problems, and though
implementation went forward relatively quickly, the process of ironing out
the bugs implied redoing some activities and abandoning others. Second,
and related to the first factor, most executing agencies were not primarily
small-producer oriented (para 5.07). Successful execution of PIDER



- 82 -
sub-projects required a change in focus--not only in attitude, but in
everything from technologies to delivery mechanisms. Third, the number of
sub-projects planned required considerable mobilization of resources, and
in most cases, the only way to avoid undue stress (and competition even
among sub-projects for similar inputs) was to pace construction over
several years. Thus, a number of sub-projects were only begun in the last
year of the project period; many of these are not yet operating. In a few
micro-regions where existing roads were poor and the terrain difficult,
productive investments had to be postponed, and very few were begun during
the project period. Finally, maximum success of the productive
sub-projects depended on both institutional and technical strengthening of
the extension program. Even if efforts to develop locally adapted
technical packages had beeun at the start of the project period, the
results for neither annual nor tree crops would have been available at the
end of three vears.
7.04      Many of the same factors led to larger Mexican manpower
requirements than initially estimated. In this case, limited experience
with this type of large, multi-component, integrated project led to
underestimating the degree to which each characteristic of the program
affected manpower requirements. That is, the number of beneficiaries, the
need for assisting them to organize producers' groups, baseline levels of
technology, cultural differences among beneficiary groups, the large number
of sub-projects, and the difficulty of physical conditions interacted to
place considerable strain on available manpower. A number of observers in
the Bank expressed concern over the sufficiency of manpower at appraisal,
and the software components were supposed to treat this difficulty. The
Bank's understanding was that additional extension agents funded by PIDER,
for example, would devote all of their time to PIDER beneficiaries (or
beneficiary communities). In fact, it often proved difficult to effect
increases in line agencies' staffs, and where new agents were hired, they
were given many non-PIDER responsibilities.
7.05      It appears that the Bank's overall assessment of implementation
capacity was largely correct. Though some concern was expressed regarding
the somewhat vaguely defined institutional mechanisms, the quality of PWG
staff at all levels was remarked by Bank missions as impressive. In
retrospect, the strength of the institutional arrangements has been shown
by their flexibility in responding to unanticipated problems and changing
conditions and their durability through several reorganizations due to
external events. On the other hand, the Bank's view of the appropriate
role of the Permanent Working Group (PWG), and later, of
SPP, contrasted with both the original Mexican concept of the central
program management's role, and with what has proved workable in practice.
Specifically, early supervision reports commented that the missions had
encouraged the PWG to take a more active role in coordinating
implementation and in developing plans.  As the program grew, the group did
attempt to play a more active management role. However, neither
Presidencia (and therefore the PWG) nor SPP had real authority over the
executing agencies (paras 5.6 - 5.7 ). The persuasive power of SPP in
constraining agencies to cooperate with PIDER-specific guidelines varied
according to the size of the PIDER budget for a given agency in a given
state relative to the overall budget, as well as to the capability of
state-level PIDER and line agency staff. In cases where the PIDER budget
represented a small proportion of the whole, agency directors often chose
not to bother with the special requirements which execution of PIDER



- 83 -
investments involved.  For this reason, the designation of state governors
as authority for PIDER implementation has produced more effective results.
Operating Forecasts
7.06      The nature and reasons for physical target shortfalls are
discussed in paras 4.05-4.11. In retrospect, it appears that appraisal
forecasts with respect to production and temporary employment generated
were optimistic both overall and on a sub-project basis. First,
construction of productive infrastructure in many cases was not as quickly
accomplished as anticipated, resulting in later start-up of operation and
in fewer production units overall than had been expected. On the other
hand, estimates of permanent employment generated exceed appraisal
expectations. Second, the Bank's concern with the adequacy of the
extension system and credit availability (paras 2.10-2.11) proved valid,
with the result that uptake rates and production levels were lower than
expected on many sub-projects. It should be noted, however, that PIDER
management in SPP as well as staff in other Government agencies have
recognized and are addressing issues related to improvement of the
productivity of small producers. The PIDER program is ongoing in all of
the original (i.e. PIDER I) micro-regions, and assistance is being
continued to enable beneficiaries to reach full development with their
investments. SPP is placing increased importance on software components,
and is developing an improved monitoring and evaluation system (paras 6.7).
Its overall perspective has grown longer-term in the process, to include
the operating phase of investments in a continuum with the construction
phase. The Bank is supporting these efforts to focus more sharply on
software. Under the PIDER III loan, 21% of baseline costs were for
software components (not including credit) with 8% for extension, 1% for
monitoring and evaluation, and 3% for additions to program management,
including financing for training staff., Under PIDER I, 10% of base costs
were for software, with 7% for extension. No allowance was made for
management requirements. Much of this shift in emphasis has resulted from
mutual Bank/SPP assessment of problems and solutions.
Bank Supervision and Working Relationship
7.07      From preparation, appraisal, and through most of the supervision
of PIDER I, continuity of staff in Bank missions permitted development of a
good working relationship with Mexican management. The fact that a number
of Bank recommendations not only have been complied with for the
Bank-assisted portion of the program, but have been incorporated into the
program as a whole demonstrates the quality of this relationship. It has
been acknowledged that Bank support was important in assisting the program
through several organizational transitions. Because of the overriding
importance of these transitions and the necessity for continuing
development of the institutions responsible for PIDER, organizational
issues absorbed considerable attention of supervision missions during much
of the PIDER I project period.
7.08      One issue which had been considered vitally important at
appraisal and which was gradually given less attention was the question of
the implementation of an improved extension and applied research program.
Presentation of an operational plan for an improved program was a condition



- 84 -
of effectiveness (para 2.13).  The plan as finally presented was a
statement of intention, but was not considered operational by the Bank.
The director of the program agreed, but said that an operational plan would
be developed within three months. The plan was therefore accepted with
reservations. Supervision missions over the next two years reported
disappointing progress in improving the extension program, and little
evidence of progress in applied research. Field visits showed that in many
cases, infrastructure was operating adequately as a result of assistance
provided through the existing or expanded extension program, but the
qualitative changes necessary to make such investments uniformly operative
in all areas had not occurred.
7.09      The question arises of whether the disappointing results
regarding extension were due to borrower failure to comply with the
negotiated agreement, or whether the condition itself was reasonable in the
institutional context of the program in Mexico at that time (1975). The
plan for an improved program was to be drawn up by a group comprising staff
from Presidencia (PIDER), the Extension Service of the Secretariat of
Agriculture (SAG), the Agricultural Research Insitute (INTA), and the
Postgraduate School for Agriculture.   This committee agreed on an
extension methodology, which was to be implemented by existing agencies
(the agency responsible for extension in a given community depended on both
the cultural and linguistic characteristics of the beneficiary community
and on the types of crop). All of the agencies involved were under the
ultimate authority of SAG, but internal coordination in that Ministry was
weak, making coordination of multi-agency extension efforts for PIDER an
issue of crucial importance. The agreement with the Bank had been made by
Presidencia, yet compliance depended on SAG.
7.10      Despite the shortcomings of the programs of extension and
adaptive research when viewed in the specific context of the PIDER I
"project" period, the real contribution of the Bank's insistence on the
inclusion of extension as a "project" component and on the strengthening
and refocusing of the extension program deserves to be recognized in a
larger perspective. It was mainly due to the Bank's insistence on the
importance of these elements that the approach of the PIDER program as a
whole gradually changed from "infrastructure only" to a longer-term
"integrated" one. Presidencia's, and subsequently, SPP's, focus on
extension slowly forced increased attention on the target-group focus of
the extension and adaptive research programs. SARH's Rainfed District
Program, among others, has since helped to strengthen that focus.
7.11      Due to the complexity of the program, it was not possible to
consistently include staff on supervision missions with the optimal mix of
skills. Missions attempted to review the status of every component otr
nearly every mission, in addition to assessing the development of stability



- 85 -
and effectiveness of the institutional arrangements. This approach may
have been necessary during the PIDER I project period, when the program was
getting off the ground and evolving. As an increasing number of
sub-projects complete the construction phase and are ready for operation,
however, greater attention must be given to the technical and
organizational difficulties necessary to make them operate. This can only
be done by a careful, detailed examination of each type of sub-project to
analyze the critical elements for success and to propose alternative
solutions to problems and bottlenecks. Recent missions for PIDER II
supervision have concluded that most effective use of mission time would be
gained from careful identification of issues to be treated on each mission
and selection of expertise required (and therefore of mission members)
accordingly.
7.12      Regarding the identification and selection of issues for
treatment on missions, the reporting system would play a crucial role,
along with direct field observation by missions. The reporting
requirements as originally defined were of limited usefulness for this
purpose, since it was not possible to interpret from the reports anything
beyond budgeted and actual expenditures by component. It was impossible to
determine the physical status of works from the data, and the state of
operation of works was not monitored. According to SPP's PIDER management,
neither are these reports useful for internal program monitoring. The
Government is currently working out an internal reporting system, which
should be examined for possible use for reporting to the Bank. If such
reports are to be used as a tool in assuring the success of the program's
development efforts in the longer perspective, information regarding the
functioning of infrastructure, as well as the status of construction, is
essential. Such information should be obtainable through the new
monitoring system now being set up (para 6.07).
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      Examining the experience of PIDER I, as a project, and as
representative of the PIDER program as a whole, a number of positive
achievements are apparent, as well as some persistent problems. Measured
against appraisal expectations, the institutions responsible for the
program have evolved to a different arrangement than originally set up-to
one clearly stronger than that which it replaced. Program management has
grown from a small central group to a decentralized network within SPP, and
finally to a partnership between that network and the state Governments.
Government commitment has remained strong, as attested by the continuation
of the program through two presidential administrations, and by the growing
program budget. The original objectives of the program have been retained
and in fact expanded; management now sees a wider role for program
coordination. The concept of the program has grown beyond the original
heavy emphasis on infrastructure to one of a truly integrated approach with
increased emphasis on software components and on monitoring and evaluation.
8.02      On the other hand, coordination among components during the
project period was less smooth than projected. For this reason, with
hindsight, production projections made at appraisal appear optimistic.
Those projections were based on --         --s of expansion of irrigated
hectareage, timely facto-                      rovision of credit and



- 86 -
extension, and adoption rates which depended in turn on smooth coordination
of a number of agencies. Results of studies suggest that, even if all the
factors function smoothly together, a development period longer than the
eight years allowed at appraisal should be envisioned. Many of the
productive sub-projects required lead periods after construction of
infrastructure, either for beneficiary training or for maturation of
perennial crops.
8.03      Measurement of overall project impact was limited by the capacity
of CIDER, of which much was expected at appraisal.  Perhaps one difficulty
faced by that institution was that it was intended to evaluate the entire
program, but the program grew at a much faster pace than did CIDER. The
Mid-Term Evaluation points out, however, that even on a small sample basis,
CIDER was not doing the kind of consistent, repeated studies of individual
communities which would generate the sort of comparable data necessary to
allow impact evaluation. 1/ Both the experience gained through these
difficulties, and the valuable topical studies produced by CIDER are being
utilized in the design of the new program-wide monitoring and evaluation
system.
8.04      In order to maximize benefits from investments made under PIDER
I, attention needs to be given to making productive investments operate at
close to optimal level. This in turn requires increased emphasis on
adaptive research to develop technical packages suited to specific
conditions--both ecological and economic--of farmers' environments.
Continued support should also be given to beneficiaries through extension
and technical assistance.
1/ ,4TE, p.30-33.



- 87 -
MEXICO                          Annex I
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER I    Table 1
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Accumulated Disbursements
(USS$'000 equivalent)
Actual
Bank Fiscal Year and            Appraisal Estimate          Disbursement
Quarter, ending:               (March 1975)             (June 30, 1978)
1975
March 31, 1975
June 30, 1975                    _      7.,500
1976
September 30, 1975                     16,900
December 31, 1975                      27,200
March 31, 1976                         38,000
June 30, 1976                          49,200                     21.2
1977
September 30, 1976                     60,800                     22.2
December 31, 1976                      72,800                     25.0
March 31, 1977                         83,000                     30.2
June 30, 1977                          89,900                     33.6
1978
September 30, 1977                     96,200                     41.2
December 31, 1977                     102,000                     48.0
March 31, 1978                        106,500                     48.0
June 30, 1978                         110,000                     49.5
1979
September 30, 1978                    110,000                     59.3
December 31, 1978                     110,000                     60.9
March 31, 1979                        110,000                     71.3
June 20, 1979                         110,000                     72.5
1980
September 30, 1979                    110,000                     92.4
December 31, 1979                     110,000                     92.4
March 31, 1980                        110,000                     96.0
June 30, 1980                         110,000                    103.5
1981
September, 30, 1980                   110,000                    110.0



-88 -
Annex I
Table 2
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Program-PIDER I (L#1110-ME)
Appraisal vs. Actual Disbursements by Category
(US$000)
Appraisal        Actual Disburse-       Difference
Category                 Allotment        ments
(a)                  (b)                (b-a)
TOTAL                    110 000.0            110 000.0             ____
Irrigation                 18 770.0             17 528.0             - 1 172.0
Soil & Water Cons.          5 200.0              7 770.0             + 2 500.0
Livestock Development
Infra. & Beekeeping        11 800.0             10.957.0             - 843.0
Medium & Long-term
Credit                     23 900.0             23 900.0
Fruit Crop Development
Forestry, & Fisheries       4 200.0              4.200.0
Feeder Roads                6 600.0             12 100.0-            + 5 500.0
Rural Electrification       6 400.0              6 400.0
Farmer Organization         3 200.0              4 500.0             + 1 300.0
Extension & Demonstra-
tion Plots                  7 900.0              8 300.0             +   400.0
Marketing                     700.0                700.0
Classrooms                  3 100.0              3 491.0             +   391.0
Health Centers              1 800.0              1 582.0             - 218.0
Potable Water Supply        6 600.0              7 100.0             +   500.0
Self-Help Programs          1 900.0    -1 542.0                      -   358.0
Unallocated                 8 000.0                                  - 8 000.0



Tmble 4.3(a)      Expendit.rce  for FIDER 1, Authorized and A-ulb   xcuigAe aI'd bY Sub-FroJects.  1975-1979
For the Six Repro entative NICRO-RfGOIOfS
(MUS'1000)~
MICRO-MEGIOlIS
Total            Cogata-EgLot             Nureate            Sur-Nuova Lcon            Llano              Sur-Y,,catan            Zacapo,astta
berating Agenciea/Sub-Pcojecte       Budge:tary Actual A,,t. fludget-Act,.el Aut.b.dget- Actual Aut,Budget- Actual Aut.B.dg.t- Actual Aut.  B,.iget-Actual Aut.Budget- Actual Aut.
Author-   Expeni- Act. cry    Itxpen- Actcary         Expen- Act.ary        Expe~n- Act.ary      Rapen- Act. ary    Expen- Act.ary           Exp.n- Act.
ixatJon  -iursxp  At.  dituresjpxpAuLtb.  ditures E.p.Auth.   diture   pAt,                       iuegp   .t, dtrLsExp.Auth.   dituvats    P.
Tota1 E.penditures                                  Y1.168,850 937,050 80 228.898 198,264 87 178,082 125.020 70 243.382 185.681 76 1.2    196068 2.37186,101O 81 146.379 117.300 8
Stcretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources - SARB                                495.281 349,296 70  79,888  66 719 83  58.376  41,616 71 135.569  89 498 70  83,220  45,621 55  91,007  71 158 79  39 692  28 199 It
Irrigation                                         19.8   3,5   918.778  17.4  91  I32,46  2412 J?  65,190  38.01584.912,90 63  33.130  i1Ji71   1,033                                            814_5 8-2
Soil and Water Conservation                          38.137  35,778 94   5,595   4.551 81   4.560   4,568 Me0 IL.110  t1,100 94   9,304   9,304 110    -                          -    6.900   6.255 98
Fruit Development                                     8,867   2,905 33        -        -   -    1.011       877 86   7.850   2.028 26    -              -   -      -          - -         -         -   -
1dvestock D.velov,-ent                               94.970  62,206 65  24.619  15,562 64   7,150   4.895 69  31,242  22.463 72  17.066   7,171 42  14,893  12.115 81                      -        -   -
Ref,,rcstotion (establishm,nt of nurserIes)            1,895   1,413 78        -        -   -       -          -  -       -        -   -       -         -   -    1.895   1,413 78          -        -   -
.tetnosin and Tectinicol Asslatance                   102.336  65,516 64  23,675  22,896 98  13.165   7,156 54   3.113              246  8  15,159   2.756 58  15,456  11.363 73  31.159  21.099 66
U'aer Storew (domestic & ant"aL consaumption)    24.345  21.368 88   6,116   5.462 89   5.463   5.463 130 11.636   9,338    1,130   1.130 ]DO0                              -        -       -        -   -
ater    pp1                                        32.433  27.751 85   1.105   1.105 810          -         -  -    5.104   5.5'471 917    -          -   -   25.624  21,099 82          -             -
Narusa  ?rltDevelopment
Co i  sln -COtIAFRUIT                              042.22  7Jj1 442            l      ~     i .57?        2 741 77   5.580   5,361        ,j5 ,5l       48 65  it53 &I  i , 9389861   5.290   4 968 94                           00
ts hblcbvn,t of Niuraeries and Orcihard           9.6   20,709 693.9              ,8)2.1               ,1            -        -   -    055 6,4   51166 8495 U    2.182    18 0 8                                              .
txt.,,9i,n and Technical Assistance                  12.403  11,733 95   1,982   1,640 83          801      724 90   5.580   5.361 96    -              -            932      894 96   3.108   3.105 VO0
Nlationji Commission for Arid
Zones - CONAZA                                         32.563  23.8',6 73            -             4.090   2.673 83   9,090   5.452 60  19.383  15.721 81              -        -   -        -        -   -
Soil and Water Conservation                          11,911  15.-580 17Y      -         -  -    2.373   2.313 15O  4.695   2,3 97 1 T   10,86-3  10,:810; 98         -        -   -                 -   -
Livestock Dievelopeent                                6.112   3,355 55             -      -      1,717      300 17   4,395   3.055 69                                -        -   -       -         -   -
Water Storage                                         8,540   4,911 57        -         -  -       -           -         -         -  -    8,540   4.911 57          -        -   -        -        -   -
Mexican Coffee Institute - INMECAFEt                    2,853   jj900 66-                                                  -         --- -                             --    2 853   1900 66
Coffee Rehabilitation                                 2,853   1,900 66        -         --          .          -         -         --          -        -                         -       117;_  4Ti0   1
National Rutal Credit Bank - BANRURAL                  90 960  62,862 69  47 423  43 179 91  25 119   4,269 17                                                     17.548  14,933 84         490      461 94
Irrlgatlon                                                    40.185'j$  -4V 1 , 1iiT  Uri11-1    Z3.701         TY8   7 -                                           -        -   -       -         -
Fruit Crop Development                                1,498      304 20       -         -  -    1,498       304 20                             -         -  -        --- -    - -         -         - 
Livestock bevelopeent                                25,457  21,773 85   7,119   6.379 89          -           -         -         -           -            - 17.848  14.933 84            490      461 94
Other B.,nks                                            7,224   5,024 69        -         -  -        -          -         -         --        4.938   3.25166    2.286   1  676  77        -        -   -
_Tii:es~*-k Develnpment                                 2,686   1,76  11 J 7        -      -           -                   -            -      -          -         2,26 i-6   VT7IY 77     -         -   -
Irrigation                                            4.938   3,257 66        -         -  -       -           -         -            -     4.938   3,257 66        ---                             - 
Secretariat of Agra tan Refore-SPA                     61.156  52.986 57        -         -  -        -                          --  -           ---                   ---                            - -
Farmers Organization                                 61.16   2.986 87   9.803  1.703 18   11,494  10,224 89  13,909  13,491 97   9.912   7.373 74  12,556  11,235 89   3,482   2.960 84
Agrtcultur:ai Graduate School                           8 622   8 682 DO        -         -  -             -          -         -      -   -   -      -      -    -         -             8.622   8,682 PO1           ft'2
1j Autlhorised Actual. axpeame.



- 90 -
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING 1/                                       ANNEX  III
(in USS millions)
Components                 Appraisal Estimate               Actual            Actual Total as
Local Foreign Total         Local Foreign2/         % of Appraisal
Total                   Total
Direcr.lv Productive
Infrastructure
Livestock                    16.8   4.2   21.0)       16.4   11.0  27.4             120
Beekeeping                    1.6   0.2    1.8)
Irrigation                  26.4   8.8   35.2         26.3   17.5  43.8             124
Soil & liater Cons.           9.0   1.4   10.4        11.6    7.7  19.3             186
Fruil: Crop Dev.              5.1   0.6    5.7)
Forestry                      1.6   0.2    1.8)
Fishery                       0.1   0.0    0.1)        6.3    4.2  10.5             138
Sub-total:                    60.1  15.2   75.3        60.6   40.4 101.0             134
Credit
Development                  36.4   9.1   45.5        18.8   23.9  42.7              94
Inc. Prod. Credit            15.8   2.2   18.0         -       -      3/
Sub-total:                    52.2  11.3   63.5        18.8   23.9  42.7              67
Productive Support
Feeder Roads                 12.0   0.9   12.9        18.2   12.1  30.3             235
Ext. & Field Demonst.        14.2   0.9   15.1        12.5    8.3  20.8             138
Farmer Org.                   5.9   0.2    6.1         6.8    4.5  11.3             185
Marketing                     1.3   0.1    1.4         1.1    0.7   1.8             129
Electrification               9.1   3.0   12.1         9.6    6.4  16.0             132
Sub-total:                    42.5   5.1   47.6        48.2   32.0  80.2              169
Social Infrastructure
Health                        2.8   0.5    3.3         2.4    1.6   4.0             121
Education                     5.0   0.8    5.8         5.2    3.5   8.7              150
Drinking Water               10.0   2.5   12.5        10.7    7.1  17.8             142
Self-help Projects            3.2   0.2    3.4         2.3     1.5   3.9            115
Sub-total:                    21.0   4.0   25.0        20.6   13.7  34.4              138
Evaluation                     0.6   0.1    0.7          -        -     2/              -
Base Cost                    176.4  35.7  212.1         -        -      -
Physicial Conting.       -   12.7   2.5   15.2           -       -      -
Expected Price Incr.          55.9  11.3   67.2          -       -      -
Total Project Cost:          245.0  49.5  294.5       147.9  110.0 257.9              88
1/  Appraisal estimates assumed exchange rate of US$1.0 = MEX$12.5. Approximately 20T of
disbursements made at original rate; remaining disbursements made at an average of US$1.0 -
MEX$21.3.
2/ "Actual Foreign" amounts are those financed by IBRD.
3/  Comlponent not included in IBRD financing and not reported by SPP.
SOURCE: SAR, p. 19; SPP, Evaluacion del Credito 1110-ME.



- 91 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Detailed Features of Project Components
Irrigation
Small-scale irrigation systems included water extraction/installations
of a variety of types:
(1) simple, small-scale diversion structures an
streams with continuous flows;
(2)  small dams (maximum height 17 m) for retaining
up to 200,000 m3 of water;
(3) deep wells (25 m to 200 m) using pumps driven
by windmills, or motors (diesel or electric);
(4) pumping stations to extract water from continuous
stream or lake.
Designs for dispersion of water included earthen canals, or concrete-
lined canals (18" wide or larger) using pre-poured sections. Dispersion to
individual fields nearly always by gravity flow. In a few areas (generally for
grape production), drip systems were used.
Soil and Water Conservation
Activities financed under this component included increasing cultiv-
able area by clearing land of trees, stumps, brush, and rocks, and by terracing
slopes. Terrace borders were earthen ridges sometimes sown with agave or other
drought-resistent plants. Also financed under this component were small water
catchments some for crop irrigation, but most for cattle watering) and deep
plowing (sub-soiling) for improvement of moisture retention of soils.
Livestock
The livestock component financed construction of infrastructure for
handling animals on ejido lands. Infrastructure included corrals, feeding,
watering, and handling areas for beef cattle, goats, and sheep. Dairy cattle
units included milking facilities. Swine units were of standard size and
design (concrete and steel construction) for installation in areas where at
least some component of animal feed (e.g. sorghum) could be locally produced.
In some areas poultry units (10,000 bird capacity) were built. The component
also financed beekeeping units and honey-processing facilities.



- 92 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Ea rketing
This component financed construction of grain storage facilities and
ru-ral stores. Rural stores were to sell basic consumer goods (primarily
foodstuffs) at prices lower than prevailing among private intermediaries, and
he:Lp market campesinos' non-agricultural products. Storage facilities were
used as distribution stations for agricultural inputs, and provided limited
producer credit, in addition to purchasing farmers' produce at officially
guaranteed prices.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chai t for Permianienit Working Group (PWVG)
INTERNAL CON,MIT1 EE UI   r      - Ul   GOUPI' DIRECTOR           : U ru a     CONSULTANTS
0
rt
GENERAL COORDINATOR                                                                                 0
0
0
ADMINISTRATION                   _                                                                                                     H
0I
V                    ~~~~~~~~~~~0
PLANNING       |  .                   STUDIES                           SUPERVISION                             AUTHORIZAT ION
DLVSON                               DIVISION                            DIVISION                              AND STATISTICS
DIVISION  DIVISION                          DIVISION                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION
0
U.)
-  EVALUATI;N                             REC~~~~~~~UTORDSTINAN -TT.T,F  
REGIONAL PLANNING       EALUTIN            STUDIS              A     ITECHNICAL                    FINANCF        AUBZTINAD               SATSTICS AN
SECIO           21      SCIN 1)            SECTIION (17)     SE-CTION  141     SECTION             SECTION        S_TO              S      ETIO       4              0
NORTHiERN ZONE        (21
NORTHEASTERN ZONE   121
NORTH CENTRAL ZONE  (21                                                             C
SOUTH CENTRAL ZONE   (21                                                              i
rEt
NORTHl PACIFIC ZONE    (21                                                           -
SOUTH PACIFIC ZONE    12)
1 /Nu,mbers in parenthesis refer to the number of professionals within            SOUTHEASTERN ZONE   121 
a  ItlrtciW ar  section.                                                    __o_____d________k______l___14_



-  94
ANNEX V
Chart II
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART: FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LEVELS
MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY
r~~~~~~~~~~~~r
PERMANENT                                          CENTRALCOORDINA-
WORKING GROUP                                           TING COMMITTEE
Lit i                                                      FEDERAL 11
INSTITUTIONS -
FEDERAL                                         .
ii    j           [OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR  |'
STATE COORDINA-
TING COMMITTEE a
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~STATE OFFiCE OF
TECHNICAL GROUP                                              FEDERAL  I/
.~~~~~~~~ .              NSTITUTI ONS -
STATE
7,                    AuHOITE
- =7
|EJIDO & VILLAGE
,X  AUTHORITIES          .
LOCAL
1/ Federal Institutionis represented at the Federal and State level include: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Fiinance,
Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Health and Assistance, Department of Agrarian Affairs anid
Colon zation, Federal Electric Commission, Nationdl Corporation for Basic Marketing, Committee for Administration of the Federal
School Construction Program, National Arid Zones Commission, National Indigenous Institute, National Institute for Rural
Community Development and Low C ist Housing, the Eiido Bank, and The Guarantee Loan Fund.
World Bank-9132(2R)



- 95 -
ANNEX V
MEXICO                                                       Chart III
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER 11
PIDER ORGANIZATION CHART
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
Ministry of Programming
and Budgetingi/
Deatmn of                               Departmlent of    ll                  Departmlent of    l
BDgepatmeng oProgramming and                              _Regional Planning
Budgeting                            Operations                          and Evaluation
c Investment   -rating Costs             Program for                       Center for Research
Public Investment      Operating Costs          Rural Development                   in Rural Development
Department          Department                    (PIDER)                               (CIDER)
Group Director
General Corordinatorr
Northern                     Special                  Authorization                  Southern
Area                         Studies                  and Control                    Area
E 0
-                                                 0.
0     0
z             z                   )                Ji             CD 5                                          L5
I Formerly Ministry of the Presidency
World Bank-16983



- 96 -
t XICO                                                       ANNEX V
TUriAL OE\   LoPMVJT   P J r          PIDEFt 11                                    Chart IV
fk 1  & St-it OrCn za:ton lF9.b. 1977)
f  tOJ,ym..                                .... ..
I~~~~~~~~               IAf4flJ94ff    I I12W ,"O@g $          Of'*'
_           _!'                    .'~~~~~' 
I~~~~~~~~~
40CA6 LEVtU.
'4P
Fer - %  sorC           st~*e.i ~4. .    t _



MEXICO
X.v                                      IINTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
co ^Organization ot Federal Level
Secretariat of
Programming and 6udgeting
Secretary
Internal
Administration
and
Programmnilg
Unch!(.drSecretariat      Under-Secretariat         UiiderSetacretariat            nde     retariat       General Coordinaton      General Coordination      General Coordination
of                        of                        of                      of Procurement         of National Statistics,        of State                 of Conitrol
Prograrmming                 B Idget                 Evaluation                   and Auditing           Geographic and In-           Delegations             and Management
formation Services
Directorate General
CYO                                                                                                                                           Integrated Rural
I                             .                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Develop(rrle( t
for she    for    Direto      for theet anedo
|   of           ||PIDE-R Prornotion|
NoDER Z        C a ne             South Zire         Evaluation  |  |   the Rural   |   of Prodc tio
North Zone  Central Zone  0                           ~~~~~Communities     Projects
SPP State
Representative
World bank - 22398



ANNEX V
98 -                                                             Chart VI
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Project Organization
E                                                              Secretarnat of
E                                                       Program,mino and Budgeting
R                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SPP)
A                                                                Secretarv
L
LSP
E                                             I~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ General Coorrdination
L                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Staxe Delegations
S 1 -                                                                                                                                     |      State Governor G
'T    |                                                |            5
E                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StateCOLD
L                                                                Delegation-                                                                       COPLADE
Ei
Monitoring                                           Rural Development
Programm,ng                  Budgeting              Adminiwsralion                  and                    Informalion              State Sub-committee
._Esalusbcoeon                                    l
Micro.regional                                                          t Rural Development
Mic-,egio.al                                            F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regional
Rural Developrnent                                                                   ebgcronm,le
R                                                                 Office                                                                        Sub-comm-ttee
P.
0
7                                     Stucies and               Support for              Monitoring and
rlec                Prmotion of                E1utof o
A                                    lrtentrlbcatrrtri       Rural Communities      |     IDER Program
A                                                                                                                                               Rural Communities
COPLADE                                 Chairman: State Governor
Technical Secretary: SPP State Represeniatine
M4embers: Representatives of federal and stare agencies; social and private institutions
Rural Developmcent State Sub-committee:  Coordinator: Representative of State Government
Technical Secrctarvy SPP Representative
Members: Federal and stale agencies; social and private sector municipal
authorities directly nvolved in the development of PIDER Program.
PIDER.- Micro regional Sub-comrnmotec:  Coordinator: Representative of State Government
Technical Secrearyv SPP Micro-regional Representative
Members Technicians of federal and state agencies; social and private sector:
munmcipal authorities directly involved in development of PIDER
Program in rural areas; and representatives of rural communities.
World Bank - 22399



I1RD 11418R
110                                                                  1                                                                    ._~ _ _ \ UN rF D S FA ES     JUNE 1982
UN FL,U YEATES
s  -                                       U    N      I  T   E    D                 S   T    A        T    E   S                                                             ME/IC
COSTA R-      CA
ES                             *_._*     _ _    _ -\.-.---BELI!
<   S  O  N  O    R  A                                                                                                                                  ' \  ,r .OAa                        S
30'~~                                                                     tu           /~       Es,                                                                   .AA
C H I H U A H U A                                                                                                                                             
SONORA                                                               _ C OA H U I L A
r ::, - C_,.}   l                {1q,          -~--Ax                  ,,-      
,  7    '      :       S       \'  'I /1;' 'q'5't1          '                 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~N UJE V/ 0~'  '  Gu/f
a c   fli c                      . A                       7     >S g ,                     {^,L E (I N 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O  c e a n    bAJA   4   9).0,                                         D U R A N G          O,
CALIFORNt:A SUR I!,A 5 lill lI             1t:: <                      -----           /                 . . [ I                                            M e x I c o
ilt,iElVl~~~~              ~     ~~~~~ I,- ,,s,Q  il''~SN  |''  TAMAUL PAS 
MEXICO                                                      r. 1F1Iv. _,,,_r . 
-:  -  ~   ~-,    ~>                'm  l  /  z -NJ  EVP O    -                           GuPfT O S I
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 '\NAYARIT',g't\-   _  ~'    
MICRO REGIONS                                                        r   .                     i.   OC A T A N 
-20                                                                                /                       , GI'ANADUATOS  ,,9 4       d -- 5             t .            )                            _,,      YUCATAN,       CDZLJMEL
LOCATION  OF  PROJECTS                                        iI A  L I S C O _                                                       7AIAP    A                                                        s   20-
Micro Regions and Their Climates z,?.-~>   
I, 8Mexico[ 1lilli ilill AR I D  u  S_ _S  l _   ff M@Y CO    } {-59~   I/    I r, t L     C U NTAN ANROO
>. ) ' 3) EM -ARI D                                                                   C.5)  , J q \f,Dj  i                                                                            S HECELAACAKAN  TM
MEXICO                                    I 'Ill        SANUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1I   
Ro U R        HUMID TROPICAJC                                  IA                               ,   -              L                                                  AM P E C H E
; it \) g gz...... Z.fi-3DRY TROPICA L                                                 ....... ----T a< .    OS)/,ThB AS C O - _J-  
' )tR TEMPERATE       (           ~          ,     -         , ETE                    '                               K-
,40 E   TRANSITION                                                         G U E R RP  E R C |A                          MOAIBELiZE
LOCATION  OF PROJECTS              A    I S C 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'HIDALGO                               7/C/PU/SEA~0   X     C 
Micro Region n Sd te BoundCiar es                                                                                                  CA
-   -  InrernotionolI Boundortes    N                                                       At~  1~           c , .                    C H  I A  P A  5           N
0     10  0           S3M0  400    500                                                                                                                                  /     GUATEMALA           /
K LOAAETERS                                                                                                                                              i                             HONDURAS
llL I HUMID TROPICAL               COUM                CHOACA         0 MECE>0T4                      &                            '-,     CAMPE1H/ 90
_0400~  L1J  DRY           PICL                                                                                                                        T                               , SALVADOR-,



