DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1618-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT II - PIDER
April 28, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It mav not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not ascept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00        =  Mex$12.50
Mex$1.00       =  us$0.o8
Mex$l million  =  US$80,000
Fiscal Year    - January 1 to December 31



INTERNATiONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT iI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a propGsed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A., with the guarantee of the United
Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$110 million to help finance a
project for integrated rural development. The loan would have a term of
25 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major structural features of the Mexican economy -
past, present and future - were analyzed in "The Economy of Mexico: A
Basic Report" (192-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on June 26,
1973. Short-run trends in 1973-74 were covered in "Mexico: Current Economic
Position and Prospects", distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 27, 1974. Another updating report on the economy will be
prepared by a mission which is scheduled to visit Mexico in July this year.
Country data sheets are contained in Annex 1.
3.        For the three most recent of the six decades since the Revolution
of 1910, the Mexican economic system, measured in terms of GDP growth, has
been outstandingly successful. Since 1940, the annual average growth rate
has exceeded 6 percent. And from the mid-1950s to 1972 Mexico was among
the few countries in the developing world to combine sustained and rapid
growth with monetary and balance of payments stability. Inflation averaged
less than 5 percent a year and the dollar value of the peso was maintained
at the level fixed in 1954.
4.        Rapid and sustained growth was the product of successful policies
affecting the mobilization and use of both private and public sector resources.
The role of government in promoting economic growth was expressed on the
one hand in the development of strategic infrastructure and major utility
industries and on the other in policies which featured price support, import
control and agrarian reform measures in the agricultural sector and external
protection and the provision of fiscal incentives in the industrial sector.
5.        The relative emphasis of public and private investment was however
reflected in changes in the structure of output and employment and the
expansion of manufacturing industry. Agriculture nevertheless continued
to be the chief source of employment and in 1970 accounted for 39 percent
of the economically active population.



-2-
6.        In spite of rapid and sustained economic growth over the last
two decades, the combination of a high demographic growth rate - about
3.4 percent per year - and, until fairly recently, primarily import
substituting industrial policies, have prevented an adequate absorption of
the labor force in productive employment. Industrial growth has been quite
substantial - about 8 percernt annually over the past two decades - but
could have been even faster if industrial and trade policies had been
primarily focused to exploiting Mexico's unique export opportunities
originating in its contiguity to a large industrial market in which labor
costs are a multiple of those in Mexico. It was only in the early 'seventies
that some major steps were taken to develop manufacturing exports on a
large scale - the system of drawbacks on domestic taxes paid on exports
and the "border industries" regime were introduced at that time, and these
have been so highly successful as to suggest that a lot more could still be
done. As it is, 40 percent of the labor force is estimated in either
marginal occupations - relatively unproductive and hence poorly paid -
or openly unemployed.
7.        The Mexican strategy for development has, in the past, relied on
a combination of public action and private profit. The Government has played
a highly important role in this process, both as a promoter of key sectors
and as a setter of a regulatory and institutional framework within which
private and social groups could compete and contend, but which was both firm
enough and flexible enough to ensure overall continuity and stability. As
a formula for growth, this system has served Mexico,well, but it has also
led to a sharpening of contrasts in income and wealth between people and
among regions. This was not an entirely incidental by-product of the process
of growth; the share of the Government in the economy was kept down quite
deliberately for many years, and evidently the scope of redistributive
policies was limited as long as tax ratios as low as 8 - 10 percent -
among the lowest in the world - were maintained. Ihe Government played
a crucial role in the development of private commercial agriculture through
its irrigation and credit policies and of industry through the provision of
infrastructure, education, social legislation and financial policies, but it
did not concern itself primarily with the problems of the poorest sections of
the population. While the land reform of 1917 - widely spread in the 'thirties -
was adhered to, the absence of abundant fiscal resources prevented major
programs to improve the economic status of the beneficiaries of the land
reform. The present Government, however, came to power on a program of
combining past growth policies with much greater efforts in favor of the
rural poor, and has launched a number of ambitious initiatives in this
direction. Their continuity and viability will depend, inter alia on the
Government's continued willingness to mobilize fiscal resources to support
these programs. So far the record is impressive: the ratio of public
revenues to GNP which in 1970 stood at 11.2 percent, for 1975 is estimated
at 15.7 percent.



-3-
8.        The attempts which have been made by the present administration
(1970-76) to alleviate the poverty of the countryside and to redress some
of the imbalances between rural and urban Mexico have several dimensions.
They include a revised Agrarian Reform Law (1971) and a new Federal Water
Law (1972), both of which are intended to promote a more equitable distri-
bution of basic agricultural resources. These measures have been complemented
by changes in the sectoral allocation of available agricultural credit in
order to increase the share of low-income farmers and ejidatarios (members
of ejidos, which are a form of collective land tenure based on usufruct) the
introduction of higher support pi-ces for basic foodcrops and increased
government outlays for agricultural research, training and extension services,
with particular regard to the needs of peasant farmers. Perhaps the most
significant innovation has been a new program for integrated rural development
with which the World Bank has been associated from an early stage.
9.        The social and economic needs of the rural sector have not, however,
monor-lized government attention; those of urban-industrial development have
also been stressed in the form of heavy public investment in basic industries -
delayed during the 1960s - and an innovative low-income housing program which
has been financed with a five percent payroll tax. Productive investment
has thus been complemented, in the urban as well as the rural economy, by
institutional changes and public expenditures designed to improve the living
conditions of the poor. This parallel effort has, however, generated several
problems of short7run economic management.
10.       In 1971, after monetary and balance of payments pressures had
emerged during the previous year, the (then new) Government took stringent
action to control demand with the.effect that the GDP growth rate fell to
3.4 percent by comparison with a decade average of 7.1 percent in the 1960s.
In 1972, renewed expansion was stimulated by public expenditure and the GDP
growth rate rose to 7.4 percent. There was another year of rapid growth
(7.6 percent) in 1973 - but this time associated with an increase of 21 percent
in prices (GDP deflator). Inflation was not the only novelty; private savings,
which in the recent past had helped finance sustained growth, increased by
only 11 percent, compared with an average rate of 18 percent in 1965-71; the
inflow of private capital was replaced by a net outflow, and private investment,
particularly in the industrial sectors, slackened, reflecting some uncertainty
on the part of the business community. In the public sector there was a
record fiscal deficit - amounting to 5.6 percent of GDP by comparison with
an average of 2.7 percent in 1965-71. A major share of the limited volume
of real savings was pre-empted to finance part of this deficit while net
external borrowing of US$1.2 billion (2.4 percent of GDP) was deployed to
finance the rest. These trends were inevitably reflected in the balance of
payments where the current account deficit rose to 3.0 percent of GDP (by
comparison with an average of 2.0 percent in 1965-71).
11.       Noting these trends, the authorities had, by mid-1973, put a
restrictive monetary and credit policy into effect and complemented this
with what was originally intended to be an austere public finance program



-4-
for FY74. Taken together, these measures were expected to restrict demand
and to reduce both inflation and the size of the current account deficit.
The provisional results for 1974t indicate that whereas the former objective
was achieved, the latter was not. Monetary and credit policies were, on
the whole, carried out as planned. The rate of increase of prices thus
decelerated from April onwards, and a positive differential between
Mexican and foreign interest rates was re-established by the end of
the year although credit was not allocated as originally intended because
the public sector again pre-empted a large part of the available quantity.
Higher than planned public expenditures and lower than expected revenues
meant moreover that the fiscal deficit was larger than foreseen as were
the growth rates of aggregate demand and real im-ports. The deficit in the
balance of payments on current account thus amounted to 4.2 percent of GDP
rather than the intended 2.8 percent. Net public borrowing rose to US$2.9
billion of which US$1.8 billion was required to finance the fiscal defirit,
the remainder being needed for balance of payments purposes including
coverage of large capital outflows.
12.       The Government's economic program for 1975 incorporates a major
effort to mobilize additional public sector resources, the increase in
revenues being estimated at more than 3.0 percent of GDP. Monetary and
credit policies will continue to be restrictive although, given attractive
interest rates, domestic savings are expected to rise. Public expenditures,
both capital and current, are expected to increase significantly in real
terms and the planned fiscal deficit amounts to 4.3 percent of GDP, three
quarters of which will be externally financed. Planned internal public
borrowing thus is modest, which means that the private sector will receive
a major share of available credit and private investment is likely to increase.
The resource gap is expected to decline from 2.1 percent to 1.3 percent of
GDP - an improvement which reflects the growth of petroleum exports (projected
at about US$450 million for 1975). The current account deficit is estimated
at 3.5 percent of GDP. The 1975 program is thus designed to increase public
and private investment and public consumption whilst reducing private
consumption by means of t:axation and a voluntary increase in private
savings. From an equity standpoint the recent tax measures are progressive.
The 1975 program is thus consistent with the Government's overall economic
objectives, and if successfully implemented, should increase the productive
capacity of the economy whilst furthering the cause of distributive justice.
13e       On December 31, 1973, Mexico's outstanding disbursed public debt
of more than one year was US$5.2 billion. Net medium- and long-term public
borrowing in 1974 of US$2.2 billion reflects heavy reliance on external as
well as internal capital to finance the fiscal deficit and some borrowing -
as in 1973 - to offset private capital movements.
14.       Annex I, Page 4, shows that 41.3 percent of public external capital
contracted in 1968-72 was borrowed from private banks and that international
organizations accounted for the next largest share (22.2 percent). The
World Bank accounted for 14.7 percent of all commitments. New debt contracted
in 1974, however, was obtained at higher interest rates and on shorter maturities
than in the recent past, in the light of a severe contraction in international
capital markets.



5
15.       During 1975, it is expf:ted that net public external borrowing of
more than one year will be on the order of US$2.4 billion, which would amount
to 3.1 percent of estimated GDP compared with 2.7 percent in 1974. This
level of indebtedness is consistent with Mexico's projected future capacity
to service the interest and amortization payments, taking account of the
expected growth of real exports in the medium term. The behavior of
petroleum production and exports is an important element in these projections.
The size of Mexico's oil reserves has not yet been determined and published
estimates differ widely from the official ones. However, taking account of
(i) the proven reserves position as known to us, (ii) the likely availability
of resources for investment, and (iii) the likely supply of investment goods,
the outlook for production in 1975-80 appears to be good. After allowing for
increases in domestic consumption, the rate of growth of crude output and
the export surplus will continue to rise each year. On our present expecta-
tions, by 1980, the net export balance of crude and petroleum products should
be of the order of US$1,000 million. Mexico's debt service ratio was 24.5
percent in 1973. The estimate for 1974 is !8.0 percent. Assuming that the
average terms of future debt improve slightly by comparison with those recently
obtained, the debt service ratio is expected to be lower than 25 percent
through 1980. The Bank's share in public debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1973 was approximately 15.3 percent, and its share in debt
service payments was about 7.7 percent. These shares are not expected to
change significantly in the remainder of the decade.
16.       Mexico is thus creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms
provided the Government exercises due restraint in monetary, credit and
fiscal policies; its recent actions in designing the 1975 economic program
suggest it intends to do so.
17.       In order to adequately meet its financing needs to assure continued
growth with equity in the future, Mexico will have to both strengthen its
fiscal effort and supplement that effort with substantial external borrowing.
This is what the Government intends to do. Given that the country's diversified
industrial structure is capable of supplying a good part of its capital goods
requirements, some local cost financing by external agencies is necessary.
Bank loans in sectors like power, transport and industry are traditionally
tied to the foreign exchange cost of projects. I consider some local currency
financing to be justified in other sectors with characteristically low foreign
exchange requirements, especially for high priority and institutionally complex
projects like those for integrated rural development which offer substantial
economic and social benefits in hitherto deprived areas and which call for
strong institutional support from the Bank.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
18.       With the US$50 million loan for integrated rural development in
the Papa'oapan Basin signed on November 15, 1974, the Bank Was made 38 loans
to Mexico for a total of US$1,888 million, net of cancellations. At the
end of March, 1975 the Bank held US$1,540 million including US$561 million
not yet disbursed. Most ef these loans have been made for power, industry,
transport, water supply, roads and agriculture. The execution of Bank-financed
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. However, financial performance
criteria have not been met under the Fourth Power Sector loan and the matter
is being discussed with the Government; remedial actions are expected in the
near future.
19.       IFC has made 12 investment commitments in Mexico, amounting to
US$54.3 million, of which as of March 31, 1975, US$36.3 million had been
sold, terminated or cancelled. The balance US$18.0 million held by the
Corporation consists of US$15.9 million in loans and US$2.1 million in
equity. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
commitments as of March 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico are:    (i) to support
policies and programs leading to 'J) wider distribution of the benefits of
economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued
economic growth, both by investing in projects that directly or indirectly
make significant contributions to output and employment and by supporting
changes that will make institutions function more effectively; (iii) help
resolve critical adjustment problems that emerge from Mexico's continued
growth, and (iv) transfer sufficient resources to complement Mexico's quite
appreciable domestic savings and provide the necessary funds for economic
and social investments in a framework of internal and external financial
stability.
21.       The composition of recent and prospective Bank lending to Mexico
follows the evolution of the Government and the Bank's perception of Mexico's
development needs both in terms of sectoral mix and in terms of policy
emphasis. Thus, the Las Truchas steel mill, for which the Bank made a loan
in FY74, is expected not only to further Mexico's industrial growth in an
efficient manner, but also to support the Government's program of industrial
decentralization. Similarly, the Airports Development Project (FY74) is
designed to promote rapid and reliable domestic long-distance passenger
transportation and to contribute to the Government's policy of regional
integration. The earlier (FY73) Mexico City Water Supply Project also
pursues multiple objectives. Responding to the need for expanding urban
infrastructure, particularly in low-income areas, it has helped to create a
specialized institution for efficient management of scarce water resources
that cuts across existing functional and administrative boundaries. For
the future, Bank involvement will also extend to new areas, including the
social sectors and regional and urban development.



- 7-
22.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank is substantially expanding and diversifying its support for
agriculture. Consistent with the overall framework of country and sector
objectives, a .hree-tier approach is being followed.   First, Bank support
is aimed at expanding and strengthening irrigation and agricultural credit
programs so as to more adeq.uately meet the demands of a rapidly growing
population and to generate the foreign exchange for rising import requirements.
Second, to assist the Government in its efforts to raise the incomes of the
rural poor and improve their standard of living through a combination of
directly productive, productive support and social infrastructure investment.
Third, to strengthen Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agri-
cultural resources more efficiently.
23.       Thus, the Bajo Rio Bravo-Bajo San Juan Project, being presented
to you along with this project, is one of the most important undertakings of
the present adninistration to bring agricultural production back in line
with domestic and foreign demand. The present project, however, has a
different primary focus and is an outstanding example oF the relatively new
and complex endeavors to initiate sustained and equitable development in the
rural sector. In contrast to the Papaloapan Project - approved earlier this
fiscal year - which has similar objectives but is focused on a geographically
defined area under the control of an autonomous commission, this project has
a wider spread and is aimed at distinct micro-regions in different parts of
the country involving nearly two dozen government agencies for its execution.
In addition, we are exploring the possibilities of assisting the Government
in its efforts to expand agricultural education and to develop Mexico's lagoon
fisheries. Finally, the Bank is helping to strengthen Mexico's resource
management, both through the National Water Stu..y which will provide the
basis for a rational water development policy and through assistance in
formulating and implementing a research and pilot program scheme for the
tropical Gulf zones; an operation that, we hope, would lay the foundation
for large-scale exploitation of tropical agriculture in the future.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
24.       Mexico's rural sector is a composite of striking differences.
On the one hand, it includes commercial farms under the management of
efficient and sophisticated rural entrepreneurs who were decisive, Lintil
the late 1960s, in Mexico's success in satisfying the demand of a rapidly
growing population and in transforming the country from a net importer to
a net exporter of agricultural products. On the other hdnd, it comprises
a large number of peasants in subsistence agriculture with generally small
plots in unfavorable ecological conditions. These farmers typically work
by traditional methods, barely participate in the market economy, live in
poor social conditions and subsist on a modicum of food production from their
farms.



-8-
25.       More than 20 million people live in Mexico's rural areas.
Agriculture is by far their most important employment and income source.
About 4 million families, representing close to 40 percent of Mexico's
labor force, depend on agriculture for their livelihood. They comprise
three distinct groups: 1.5 million ejidatarios, 1.2 million private farmers
and about 1.3 million landless families. The number of landless agricultural
workers is increasing rapidly, a consequence of limited farm land in relation
to an annual rural population growth of 2 percent. It is estimated that
2 million rural families had incomes of less than US$135 per capita in 1970.
The income spread, limited employment possibilities and the lack of infra-
structure and social services has resulted in massive migration from rural
to urban areas.
26.        Rural development in Mexico has a long and chequered history.    The
land reform of 1917 led to large scale redistribution of land comparable in
size and impact to only a few countries in the western world. However,
Mexico's land tenure pattern is still skewed because of excessive land
fragmentation in some parts of the country. One percent of the farmers
are estimated to control close to a fifth of total crop land, while 5 percent
of the farmers in public irrigation districts hold nearly a third of the area.
The rural production and income distribution follow the land tenure pattern.
It is estimated that 4 percent of all farms command more than half of
agricultural market sales, while 85 percent of the farms contribute only
one-sixth. Similarly, the upper 10 percent of the rural population account
for about half the total rural income, while half of the population has
to accommodate to less than a fifth.
27.       The land reform of 1917 was not supported by parallel programs to
upgrade supplementary services and provide the inputs necessary to bring
the land to full productive use. Except for the establishment of a public
agricultural banking system under the Cardenas administration in the 1930s,
little was done to help the small farmers develop their limited resources to
their full potential. Low farming standards are not surprising, since, until
recently, a mere 15 percent of the farmers received technical assistance of
any kind. A recent Mexican study concludes that not more than 13 percent of
the farmers use insecticides, 16 percent improved seeds and 22 percent
fertilizers. The promotion of farmer organizations received equally limited
support, insufficient by far to redress the structural weaknesses of community
administration and to expand interaction with external groups.
28.       While previous government policies did little to mitigate the
problems of rural poverty,they have laid the foundation for an efficiently
managed commercial agricultural sub-sector which has spearheaded Mexico's
agricultural growth record of more than 5 percent over nearly three decades.
Since the late 1960s, however, growth rates have fallen below the growth
of domestic demand, resulting in large imports of basic foodstuffs and a
stagnation in exports of the traditional crops. Although prolonged adverse
climatic conditions played an important role, structural problems seem to
be the main cause of recent sluggish agricultural production.



29.       The growing dependence on yield increases and crop diversification -
as against an expansion of the cultivated area - indicates that Mexico's past
approach of extensive development, oriented primarily to the north and
center, has largely run its course. Limited idle resources in the traditional
agricultural areas will make future production growth primarily a function
of progress in developing and implementing improved technology, to
(i) utilize more efficiently resources already under exploitation in
existing irrigation districts and the semi-arid and temperate rainfed areas;
and (ii) developing the virtually unexploited areas of Mexico's tropical
Gulf coast or a large scale.
30.       The present Government has responded well to the task of increasing
agricultural production and improving the situation of the rural poor.
Notable among its comprehensive and generally well-designed strategy are
(i) the promulgation of new legislation aiming at higher productivity and
more equitable distribution of ensuing benefits; (ii) reform and strengthening
of the agricultural support services - technical and organizational assistance,
credit and marketing in particular; (iii) expansion of irrigation and irriga-
tion rehabilitation investment programs; (iv) creation of the National Water
Plan to formulate comprehensive water management policies; (v) implementation
of an integrated rural development program; and (vi) institutionalization of
coordinating mechanisms among government agencies.
31.       The integrated rural development program (PIDER) is the core
element in the Government's strategy to revive the rural sector. The
program is indicative of the serious government concern to make structural
changes in order to reduce disparities and ensure a wider distribution of
the benefits of growth. It has to be seen against the background of a
threefold increase in public outlays for agriculture since 1970 and a
companion increase in the sector's share of total public expenditure from
11 percent (1970)to 16 percent (1974). Thus, the present Government is
probably allocating more resources to the rural sector than any previous
Government in Mexico. This strong commitment at the highest policy levels
is probably the key to overcoming major constraints which limit progress
of the rural sector, and holds the promise of a multiplier effect upon
resources and public support of sufficient magnitude to generate self-
sustaining growth in many of Mexico's rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The proposed project would be the second Bank operation for
integrated rural development in Mexico. The project was appraised in
June/July 1974, followed by updating and review missions in October andc
December 1974, and March 1975.   Negotiations took place from April 2 to 11, 1975.
The Mexican negotiating tearm was led by Mr. Pedro Galicia, Manager, Inter-
national Projects, Nacional Financiera, S.A. A report entitled "Appraisal
of the Integrated Rural Development Project I I" (Report No. 660-ME, dated



- lo -
April 16, 1975) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The Bank has, in response to a request from the Mexican Government, assisted
the Ministry of the Presidency (Presidencia) and major participating agencies
in improving and strengthening the PIDER program since 1972. In the inter-
vening period, the original concept of PIDER has undergone many changes. It
has been given a new focus, with productive investment as the main element,
and is now based on a more thorough analysis of individual project components.
Concurrently, more sophisticated criteria for the selection of individual
micro-regions and justification of individual project components have been
developed. In the process, selected agency programs have been restructured
and oriented more closely to the needs of the rural sector. Finally, and
perhaps most importantly, aoi effective planning, coor'dination and supervision
machinery has been set up.
33.       The scope of PIDER posed many intricate problems.   Their solution
and the development of a sufficiently firm analytical and solid institutional
basis has delayed the timing of Bank financial support. PIDER is an ongoing
program in which the Government has already invested a total of US$133 million
during 1973 and 1974. The experience gained in these two years has been
instrumental in shaping the concept underlying this project; it has also
demonstrated that Mexico has the political will, the managerial ability and
the implementing capacity to carry out a large and complex rural development
program. Under the project, the Bank would support substantially revised
investment plans in 30 micro-regions in which development programs were
started in 1973 and 1974. The Inter-American Development Bank has under study
a request to provide financing for about another 15 micro-regions in parallel
with the Bank.
Project Objectives and Approach
34.       The project has two principal objectives:   to raise the income and
employment levels of the rural poor and to improve their quality of life.
The approach designed to achieve these objectives combines directly productive,
productive support and social infrastructure components acting together to
promote a balanced social and economic development of the target group. The
expected advantage of such an integrated approach is the generation of mutually
reinforcing effects from each of the complementary project components, so that
total benefits may be greater than the sum of the benefits of these components
taken separately. Thus, support infrastructure and technical and organizational
assistance are designed to make the directly productive investment fully
effective. Similarly, the provision of social infrastructure should help
to transform the rising incomes resuilting from the project into improvements
in the quality of life of the beneficiaries, an essential condition to keep the
campesinos receptive to technological and social change and motivated to work
the land to the best of their capabilities. At the same time, the project will
increase the real purchasing power of the campesinos by strengthening their
marketing position; it should thus provide them with additional inducements
to invest part of the incremental income in productive ways.



35.       ,he project comprises individual micro-regions of between 25,000
and 100,000 inhabitants. The micro-regions are selected on the basis of several
criteria, including size, poverty, productive potential and need for intra-
structure. The target group of the project is the population of these micro-
regions living predominantly in villages of 300 to 3,000 inhabitants each.
Villages above the benchmark size are, in general, already provided with
relatively adequate social infrastructure and have an economic base with
problems different from those of the very poor. Furthermore, the average
per capita income in those villages is substantially higher than the income
of the target group.   On the other hand,villages with less than 300 inhabitants,
while having virtually the same income levels and facing the same difficulties
as the target group, have not been included in the project for reasons of
economic efficiency. Their dispersed locations would entail prohibitively
high costs, even for a modicum of social infrastructure and productive
investment; this, the Government decided, would not be justified for the
moment in view of more pressing demands on the country's financial and
administrative resources. The operational concept is, therefore, to create
economically viable organizational units in the target group which can
sustain the required services and, hopefully, absorb some of the migrants
from the smaller villages which otherwise would move to the large cities.
36.       Detailed investment plans are being laid out for each individual
micro-regiorn, specifying location and sequence of individual project
components. The main thrust of the plans is directed towards the develop-
ment of the micro-regional resources. Support investment and directly
productive investment are evaluated together as a package to test their
economic justification. The scope and composition of the complementary
social infrastructure are designed with flexibility to accord with the
aspiration and cooperation of individual communities. However, upper
investment limits have been specified for specific social infrastructure
components, in terms of per capita ceilings and social infrastructure as
a share of total investment, so as to ensure that individual components
are balanced in relation to each other and to the economic base of the
villages. The required contribution and service charges for social infra-
structure fulfill a similar function. They provide, quite apart from their
objective to recover part of the investment costs, a link between productive
and social investment, thus acting as a simple screening device for public
resource allocation.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would support integrated development in
30 micro-regions located in different ecological zones throughout the
country. The project description is based on 15 micro-region investment
plans which have been appraised either during field visits or by a
combination of desk analysis and field checks. The remaining 15 micro-
regions would be determined in accordance with agreed selection criteria
(para. 35),and the respective investment plans would be submitted to the



- 12 -
Bank not later than June 30, 1975. While, as a general rule, the economic
rate of return on directly productive and productive support investment
must not be below 10 percent (micro-region plans with returns of between
10 and 15 percent would be subject to field appraisal) and the social
infrastructure must not exceed 30 percent of total micro-region investment,
disbursement would be made contingent upon prior Bank approval in each case
(Section 3.01c Guarantee Agreement).
38.        It has been assumed for project presentation and cost calculation
that the average of the appraised 15 micro-region plans is similar, in view
of their representative character, to the average of the 15 remaining
plans. In the aggregate, directly productive investment would account
for 66 percent, productive support for 22 percent and social infrastructure
for 12 percent of total investment. The individual components of the
proposed project would be:
Directly Productive
a.   Construction and rehabilitation of small water facilities,
including pump schemes, storage dams and distribution networks
to irrigate about 30,000 ha and to provide for domestic and
livestock use;
b.   Development of livestock through land clearing, pasture
establishment, perimeter fencing, and construction of
watering and handling facilities;
c.   Soil and water conservation, using labor intensive methods
where appropriate, to build contour ridges, terraces, check-
dams and other conservation works on about 90,000 ha;
d.   Establishment of orchards, including land clearing, ditch
preparation and planting of a total of 9,500 ha;
e.   Other productive investment, including beekeeping, forestry
and fisheries d-- elopment;
f.   Provision of seasonal production, and medium- and long-term
development credit to use the productive infrastructure most
effectively.
Productive Support
a.   Construction of about 2,000 km of feeder roads, especially to
service areas in which agricultural development is supported;
b.   Provision of mobile shops and construction of small market
stores and warehouses;



- 13 -
C.    installation of electric power distribution systems to service
about 160,000 persons;
d.   Organization, sensitization and training of farmers by specialized
multidisciplinary teams; and
e.   Provision of intensive technical assistance packages, including
field testing and demonstration, to promote adoption of modern
farming methods.
Social Infrastructure
a.    Installation of water supply systems to serve about 170,000 persons,
half of which would receive the water at the house lot;
b.   Construction or renovation and equipping of 220 health posts
and 70 rural health centers;
c.   Construction or renovation and equipping of 1,150 classrooms
to accommodate about 60,000 students;
d.   Provision of materials for self-help activities in ejidos and
villages, such as housing improvements, community centers and
mini-irrigation schemes.
Evaluation
Support of a new Center for Research in Rural Development to carry
out project-related evaluation and applied research and to train
PIDER planning and administrative staff.
39.       While, economically and operationally, seasonal credit forms    part
of the project, it will not be financed under this loan. A government under-
taking has been obtained to ensure the timely and adequate availability of
such credit as well as of fertilizers and improved seeds which are essential
for the success of the project (Section 3.06a Guarantee Agreement). Similarly,
the existing Center for Research in Rural Development (CIDER;also see para. 47),
which has been given broad responsibility for the evaluation of PIDER, will not
be financed under this loan. Evaluation is, however, part of the project
(part 15 Schedule 2 Guarantee.Agreement). Bank staff will, consequently,
cooperate closely with CIDER in the development and focus of evaluation
methods. Bank staff will also be given full access to such information
obtained and kept by the Guarantor, as shall be required to evaluate the
results of the investments carried out under the project (Section 3.20
Guarantee Agreement).



- 14-
Organization and Management
40.       The Ministry of the Presidency (Presidencia) would have principal
responsibility for execution of the project. Under its direction, the
following public institutions would participate: Ministries of Agriculture,
Public Works, Water Resources, Health, Agrarian Reform, the Federal Electricity
Commission, National Marketing Board, Committee for Federal School Construction
Program, National Indigenous Institute, National Arid Zones Commission,
National Institute for Rural Community Development and Low Cost Housing,
National Fruit Commission, the Fondo of the Bank of Mexico, the National
Agricultural Banking System, the Coordinating Commission for the Isthmus
of Tehuantepec and the National Ejido Promotion Fund. In total, these
agencies have about 2,700 professionals working full-time on the execution
of PIDER.
41.       Presidencia, which together with tine Ministry of Finance, has
final authority on the public investment budget, started coordinating the
activities of a few public agencies in the rural sector on a pilot basis in
1970. However, the number of agencies so coordinated has since quadrupled,
and all activities of the participating agencies which traditionally selected
and operated individual projects independently within their overall budget
have now been coordinated under PIDER. Many individual agency programs
have been streamlined and focused more clearly on the needs of the peasants,
following a comprehensive analysis of the institutional requirements to
serve the rural sector effectively. Similarly, the organizational frame-
work of PIDER itself underwent considerable changes until the present three-
tier system, as discussed below, was consolidated.
42.       The highest policy-making body of PIDER is a coordinating committee
chaired by the Director of Public Investment of Presidencia and comprising
senior officials of the participating agencies. The coordinating committee
is supported by a permanent working group. of agency representatives at the
technical level. This permanent working group develops planning methodology
and concepts, screens the micro-region investment plans for consistency and
handles operational issues of minor importance. The working group, in turn,
is supported by a special staff of 45 technicians within Presidencia,
responsible for the preparation of individual investment plans, for routine
management operations and for investment monitoring.
43.       Program execution in the micro-regions is coordinated by state
committees consisting of the state delegates of participating agencies
under the chairmanship of the respective Governors. Management responsibility
is delegated to an executive secretary who serves simultaneously as state
PiDER director. The secretary is assisted by a technical secretariat of
Presidencia staff and delegated liaison officers from the executing agencies.
The technical secretariat is primarily responsible for day-to-day coordination
of operations within each micro-region and for maintaining close contact
with local authorities.



- 15 -
44.       Local participation in the planning and execution of PIDER has
been achieved through a variety of procedures depending on the political,
social and administrative characteristics of the micro-regions. As a rule,
field personnel from the Ministry of Agrarian Reform take the lead to
organize communities to ensure active participation in the program. In
some cases, selected agency programs, e.g., feeder roads of the Ministry of
Public Works and small irrigation works of the Ministry of Hydraulic Resources,
have created village committees which serve as a basis for PIDER. Local
authorities, such as municipal chiefs, ejido presidents and teachers, are
also given responsibilities to help organize the campesinos and promote
their active involvement. According to the specific local circumstances,
these authorities are used as independent information links to the state
level technical secretariat.
45.       The central tier was established basically two years ago, whereas
the formation of state and local tiers is of more recent origin. Experience
gained so far indicates that the system works without undue friction,
that responsibilities have been clearly delineated, and that the multiple
functions under the project are performed effectively. While the final
authority for selecting micro-regions and approving the rzspective invest-
ment plans will remain at the central level, the responsibility for plan
preparation and coordination of the different agencies is being taken over
increasingly at the state level. The individual project works are executed
by the appropriate public agency, as determined by the central coordinating
committee and concurred in by the state committees. Operation and maintenance
of project works will be, as a rule, the responsibility of the benefitting
communities, but the relevant agencies will provide organizational and
technical support. Project implementation will be supervised at all three
levels. While locally based PIDER staff would monitor the progress of the
project continuously, the state committees would be informed independently
by appropriate local authorities. Federal level staff will, in addition,
supervise progress in the individual micro-regions on a routine basis by
field checks.
46.       The organizational framework of the project breaks new ground in
Mexico, which has traditionally been characterized by strong centralization.
Many important planning and control functions have been delegated under
PIDER and new procedures have been adopted for financing its activities.
In contrast to the previous procedure of financing through central agency
budgets, PIDER is funded directly by the Central Government on a state-by-
state basis through selected regional public banks which, in turn, are
reimbursed by the Ministry of Finance. The banks will disburse monthly
against vouchers from the executing agencies on the basis of complete and
detailed annual investment plans for the micro-regIons in their command
area. Actual investment progress is monitored by local and headquarters
PIDER staff as explained above.



- 16 -
47.       At the end of 1974, an administratively and financially independent
Center for Research in Rural Development (CIDER) was established within
Presidencia to carry out evaluation of and to do applied research for
PIDER programs as well as to guide the training of PIDER staff and to
diffuse pertinent information.   In view of its crucial function, CIDER has
contracted among its staff and advisors some of the niost outstanding and
internationally known Mexican experts in agriculture, sociology, anthropology,
organization and communications. Furthermore, CIDER will be supervised by
a board of selected senior representatives from different public agencies to
safeguard its independence. CIDER's evaluation effort will focus on inter-
agency coordination, agencies' efficiency, effectiveness of campesino
organization, community attitude and responsiveness, the causes for dif-
ferences in planned and realized construction and production targets and
changes in the financial position of project beneficiaries. The results
will form the basis for modification and redesign of PIDER programs where
appropriate.
Financing and Beneficiaries' Contribution
48.       Total project costs are estimated at US$295 million equivalent
(directly productive investment, US$138.8 million, of which US$45.5 million
are for development and US$18 million for seasonal credit; productive support,
US$47.6 million; social infrastructure, US$25.0 million; project evaluation,
US$0.7 million; and contingencies, US$82.4 million). A breakdown of costs is
shown in Annex III. The proposed loan would finance 40 percent of project
costs, excluding seasonal credit and project-evaluation. It would cover the
foreign exchange cost of US$47 million and US$63 million of local expenditures
(17 percent and 23 percent, respectively of total project costs, excluding
seasonal credit and evaluation). The balance would be provided by the
Government (US$178 million) and the beneficiaries (US$7 million).
49.       The success of the project depends on a close association of the
beneficiaries with its execution. It is proposed that they pay for the
operation and maintenance cost of project works, with the exception of
feeder roads, schools and health centers. In addition to their contribution
in labor and kind of about US$30 million equivalent (which has not been
included in computing the project costs), the beneficiaries will also
contribute toward financial recovery of investment costs in a significant
way. Thus, the beneficiaries would pay charges for recovery of irrigation
investment according to their payment capacity as prescribed by the Federal
Water Law, and electricity investment in conformity with the policy of the
Federal Electricity Commission which aims at recovery of investment in about
25 years. As to potable water, the beneficiaries would contribute in cash
about 5 percent to the systems cost and pay for the house connections.
Including the cash contributions of the project beneficiaries at the outset
and the development credit, the Government is expected to recover US$150
million, or 50 percent of the financial outlays for the project.



Procurement ar,' Disbursement
50.       Mexico has a well-developed and competent contracting industry,
capable of doing all types of works at competitive prices, and only rarely
is a bid submitted from a non--Mexican firm. Further, this project would
include a diversity of relatively small construction jobs in many locations
over a wide area and would involve numerous government agencies in the
execution of the works. The following procurement procedures would be
therefore applied for civil works and building construction, machinery,
equipment, material and supplies:
i. Contracts would be grouped, where feasible, into larger
packages in order to obtain more competition in bidding.
ii. All contracts and purchases exceeding US$25Q,,000 equivalent
would be awarded under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement. A preference
for domestic suppliers of 15 percent would be permitted in
the evaluation of bids for manufactured items.
iii. All contracts of less than US$250,000 equivalent would be let
under local competitive bidding, under negotiated contracts
at unit prices approved by Presidencia, or executed by force
account in accordance with standard government procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank, provided that not more
than US$60 million of the Bank loan would be used to finance
such contracts and the force account work.
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 40 percent of investment
expenditures for civil works, equipment, vehicles and technical services
and 48 percent of incremental development credit (on terms between 3 and
12 years at 7.6 percent interest). Certificates of expenditure would be
held available for inspection by the Bank. The loan wou7d be disbursed
in four years, 1975-78.
Project Risks
52.       The complex and novel character of the project implies risks.
However, special care was taken during the extended preparation of the
project to ensure that conditions essential to its success would be met.
First, the objectives of the project are compatible with the overall
national development strategy and would not lead to concentration of a
disproportionate resource and manpower share in a few relatively small
regions of the country. The project has been carefully designed not to
pre-empt other government efforts and thus constrain development outside
the micro-regions. On the contrary, it is hoped that PIDER will actually
generate external benefits for these areas. The concentrated and focused
effort under PIDER is deepening in the Government the understanding of the
rural sector and of the bottlenecks limiting its development. As a consequence,
many traditional programs have been modified and made more effective. The
benefits of these modifications are not confined to the micro-regions, but
will be applied countrywide and independently of PIDER through selective
programs of individual agencies.



- 18 -
53.       Second, the design of the project is consistent with the management
and executing capacity at federal, state and local levels and is based on
the experience of an extended period of trial and error. However, while an
effective organizational set-up is a necessary condition for the success
of the project, it has to be matched by competent top management and
qualified staff at all levels. Most of PIDER's management cadre was
replaced during project preparation to meet its present high standard and,
at the sa;ne time, the quality and commitment of field staff has been up-
graded through in-house training programs and improved salary scales and
promotion prospects. Rural development service has not only been given
material reward but also status and social recognition. This has made it
possible to attract dynamic and competent professionals who, in turn, will
enable more effective use of lower level staff. The result of these
measures has already been a sharply reduced turn-over, indicative of
improved morale among the field staff.
54.       Third, individual components of the project have been determined
in close response to the perceived needs of the target population to ensure
a high acceptance rate. Experience under various pilot projects and with
PIDER itself has demonstrated that under favorable circumstances Mexico's
campesinos are receptive to change. During preparation, a special effort
was made to involve the local communities in the formulation of the micro-
regional investment plans. Intensive programs of sensitization, field
demonstration and technical and organizational assistance would be provided
under the project to further enhance acceptance of the proposed production
technology and willingness to use, as well as maintain, the planned social
infrastructure effectively.
55.       Fourth, the expected production increases under the project are
derived from a comprehensive analysis of production statistics, available
technology and ecological conditions. However, while the estimates in areas
with over 700 mm annual rainfall are fairly accurate, yield response to new
technical packages in the drier areas is less cerLaini.  The project, therefore,
aims at establishing a more dependable resource base through irrigation
development, water conservation works and pasture improvement wherever
feasible. At the same time, risk minimizing technologies would be introduced.
Even so, there will remain an unavoidable and far from negligible degree of
uncertainty with respect to crop yields and farm response. This is a risk
which the Governnient of Mexico is willing to take and which, indeed, cannot
be avoided if attempts are to be made to bring socio-economic change to Mexico's
backward rural areas.
Project Impact
56.       The project would contribute significantly to accelerated and
balanced development of communities in the target group. While it is
difficult to determine precisely the total number of beneficiaries from
social investment, it is estimated that about 750,000 persons would benefit



- 19 -
directly f4rom at least one of the social infrastructure components.    The
project would further help to increase the income of about 650,000 people,
provide about 84,000 man-years of employment during project implementation,
and generate some 30,000 new permanent jobs, not including additional
employment through multiplier effects. The extent of the proposed social
infrastructure improvements can be seen from the Table at Annex IV. The
variance among micro-regions is partly a reflection of differences in
present infrastructure levels, investment costs and productive potential.
On the average 7 percent more people would receive electricity, 9 percent
more drinking water and 7 percent more of the school age children would
attend school in the project area.
57.       The fact that the benefits of the project would not be distributed
evenly is inherent in a strategy of utilizing resources to their fullest
potential in areas with widely different ecological conditions. Farmers
who have access to the more productive resources will absorb relatively
more of the investment and will also benefit more. Thus, while the average
income of the beneficiaries from the project is expected to double, some
would be able to raise their incomes only by 50 percent, whereas a few
others would achieve more than five times their previous incomes. Farmers
in the first category are typically dependent on dry farming in the semi-
arid and dry tropical zones, farmers in the second category farm in irrigated
agriculture.
58.       The ejido budgets underlying the Table at Annex IV reveal the
difficulties of generating adequate farm incomes from rainfed agriculture.
While the increment is remarkable in most cases, only a few farmers would
achieve incomes above the national 40th percentile benchmark.     Although
income levels under the project would be sufficient, in general, to meet
the farm families' subsistence needs for foodstuffs, some campesinos would
continue to work off the farm part-time to supplement their incomes. In
those areas where ecological conditions and farm sizes do not allow full
farm family ino.mcs, activities other than agriculture have to be developed.
Thus, the establishment of small-scale industries, handicraft centers and
workshops is promoted where feasible. At the same time, the peasants will
be trained and motivated to be better prepared for employment in new activities,
either within or outside the micro-regions.
Economic Evaluation
59.       The realization of an integrated approach to development will
generate benefits in itselC; the focusing of individual agency operation
and organization on a comprehensive and well-defined micro-region program
of action will serve a catalytic function by enhancing the effects of
selected activities. This impact, however, is not measurable with standard
techniques, nor can the effects of individual social investment components
be captured adequately in rate of return calculations. Thus, the benefits
of this project are likely to exceed the quantifiable magnitudes. The
project might well provide the basis for sustained development in many
micro-regions, involving the campesinos in a meaningful and active way.



- 20 -
60.       The average economic rate of return on the directly productive
and productive support investment of the project is estimated at 16 percent.
Calculations are based on typical ejido or village models for each micro-
region and range from 11.4 percent to 23.0 percent in various micro-regions.
In computing the rates of return, only the costs and benefits of directly
productive and productive support components have been considered. The
costs of social investment have not been charged against the project, nor.
have the benefits from improved health and education, social awareness,
community development and external interaction been credited.
61.       After completion, the project will require government expenditures
to operate and maintain the non-revenue earning components of approximately
US$8 million per annum, or approximately US$10 per capita of direct
beneficiaries. About 10 percent of the expenditures will be, however,
compensated from incremental tax revenues.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III (Section 4,
iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution approving the pro-
posed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
April 28, 1975



Annex I
Pap 1 of *p&use
ODUN~TR DATA - H   C
ARELA                                               POPULATIONi                                  MNSITY
1, 972,504 km?l                                      514.15  million (md-1972)
Pei, kaof arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
OeiorZil,                       Chile        pan
V1960                                                                                         19701             197 0        1970         197
GNP PER CAPITA US$ (ATIAS BASIS) /.                               1475           750ALs           530 /8        00 /.      1,210 /
DEMOORAPRIC
C-rude birth rate (per thousand)                                146             145A/            38 Ab.c      30            20
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                  11              9 tq           10 /b.cg       9             8
*Infant mortality rate (per thousand live. births)                                                 76 /d.ac      61 /8           110            79           28
ife expectancy at birth (years)                                  58 1-          65A/            61 /b.Sc      62 If         70
Gross reproduction, rt/23.2                                                    3.1 Lb4          2.6          2.2/          1.14
Populati.n growth trate                                         3.2            3.5 /82.9/                    2.3    ~      1.1/
Population growth rate - urban                                    5/h            S/&   h          5/13                       2/
Age amtutu-o (pan-c=ms)
0-14                                                         141            146 alb          142           39            28
15-614                                                         52             50/1            53/           55            63
65 and over                                                    14             14 /             5/            6             9
Age dependency ratio /14                                        0.9           1.0   a          0.9 71        0.8           0.6
Ecnoic dependency min /14                                     1.7           2.0              1.5 /8        1.6 /        1.0 /8
Urban population as percent of total                             51 /h          60 /h            56 /i        76 Z8        149 /c.k
Family plannin,g: No. of acce ptors cuulative (thous.)          .               .250
No. of users (N of earred womn)               .              .1.6
Total lbor force (thousandn)                                 11,300        13,000           29,600o/       3,000 /8     12,700 /P
Percentage esployad in agricultur                              54            140              141           19 /8         28 /
Percentage unemployed                                          .14                              2 8          5 /8          2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of national income received by highest 5%                29 /r..        36 A.L1          33 /8        30 /j
Porcnt ofnational Income received by highest 20%                 59 /           614 /t           62  a        57 m
Porcent ofnational income rece.ivad by lowes,t 20%                14            14    t  .      3   /          5   no
Porcer't of national income receive.d by Invest 140%             10 /8s         11  ni           10 /8        13 ts,u
DIISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNER.SHIP
% owned by top 10% of owners                                     ..
% owned by anallest 10% of owners ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per-physician                                      1,80oo         1,4140          1,950/        2,1   /8        750
POpulation per nursing person                                 2,65  /8        ,7               ,0  t14     5,3120 /      1,1430/
Population per hospital bed                                     590 /8         930              260          250           220 /
Par caPita calorie supply as % of requiresenta /5               102  an        110              109          101           107
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per day7/8               65 /     ~     65               614          71            81
Of which, animal and pulse.                                    29 Zj          28               39           32            140 If
Death rate 1-14 years /7                                         11u/           U               .              3/1A        0.9
EDUCATION
Adut      /8 primsary school enrollment ratio                    81            1014 /8d         130 /a..      119 /c.ad      83
Adjusted Rh secondary school enro-llment ratio                    9             23               27 =ad ae    29           149
Years of scoling provided, first and second level.               12             12               13           12            12
Voctional enrollment as % of sac, sc hool enrollment             214           214 it            17           33            20
Adult Literacy rate %                                            62 /8.f        814              68 /af       90            g4bar
HOUSING
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                         2.6/81h        2.2 /.J          1.0          1.3     sIc
P_rcn't of occ upied units without piped water                   68             61               67     an    14  ca
Accessa te el6.Lti-ity (As % of total popuation)                .59 L.                           147 Lss.5L1
Porcent of 'ural population connected to electricity            ..             ..                 t/   .n    30/8
CONSUMPTION
Radio -receivers per 1000 population                             95            301 /a61 /                     1149 /a      210 /.-
Passen.ger cars per 1000 population                              114            28 7     ~       29 7p         19 TP        95 A8
Electric po,mr consumption (cah p.c.)                           338 h8         662 Th-          5414/a        890 /a     1,9146 /a
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                          2.8            1.8 E.           2.3 77        5.7 /8       6.0 7
Notes: Figures refer either to the lateat periods or to              account of environmental tempertre      oy     gte    n
th4e latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to              distribution by age and se- of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prim-.         Z6  Prot.in standards (requirement-s) for all countries as esiab-
cil  e160ad17.lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a                                          inimum
/8. The Per Capita OAP estimate is at maket prices for               alwneof 60 gram        of total protein per, day, eni 20 gram  of
year  other than 1960, calculated by the aan  conversion         animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
techni'que an the 1972 Wor-ld Bank Atlas.                        protein.  Thane standards ars somewhat lolwer than those of 75
L2 Average number of daughters per woma of reproductive              gram  of total protein and 23 grass of animal protein as an
age,                                                             average for the world, proposed by, FAO in the Third World Food
/8Population growth rates- are for the decades ending in           Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                               /7, Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
/4, Ratio of.popula,tion under 15 and 65 and ove,r te p.pula-         ages 1 thro-gh 4 say be used ae a first approxi.atiri index of
tion of ages 15-614 for age dependency ratio and to labor         malnutrition.
force. of ages 15-614 for economic dependency ratio.          A8Peroentage enrolled of corrsponding population of school age
F8 AO rfenestandards represent physiological -.-                    as defined for each country.
quiremani f or carna activ,ity and health, taking
/8   1972;    /b 1965-70;    /c  Estimate;    /d  1959;    /a  1959-411   If   1969-70;   LB  1960-72;    /h  localities of 2,500
or mere;   A    Urban and suburban amass of adndnietrativa o.tars of municipalities end districts;        /7, Populated centers
which have   Wbinite urban characteristics contributed by certain pablic and sunicipal services;       /k  localities of
10,000 or mere inhabitants;    Ll   Ratio of population under 15 and 60 and over to those in age group 15-59;       /8  15-59
years;   /n   60 years and over;    /o  Population. under 15 and 60 and over;    /8  1971;    /8  Based on 1.3 percent sample
tabulation of census returns, excluding Indian Jungle population;      /r   1963;   Is  Households;    /t 1969;     /u  1968;
/ 1961,/       Government only;    /. Number on the register, not all working in the country;       /8   Hospital persoanel;
1j962;/~        1961-62;    /ab  1973;   /qc   Registered onlyj    /ad  Gross enrollment which includes overage students;
/8The net enrulicet ratios in 1971 ware 814% and 18% for basic end secondary education, respectively;         Ifk Definition,
unknown; j  /R   15 year  and over;    /ah4  Data refer to living quarters;    L.14 1960-62;    /.,j Data refer to housing
units;   Ak    Data refer to households;    Al7, Estimate based on sample tabulation, of census retumns; data refer to
dwellings;    8    Inside or outside;    /an  Including semi-pemsanent dwellings;     /a., Inside only.
*Spain has been selected as an objective coumtry because its per capita income is higher then Mexico, and becaum         both
countries have in ..acon the importance of tourism and the influence of nearby richer countries.
83 April 214, 1975



ANNEX T
PaZa 2 of Ia
MEXICO:   Econenic Oeve-oes-t Data. Sheet
Atual1                    Prel         Et.                  P-oletred                    1960      196 5    1970      1975     1980
*00   lIS         1570          1913        1974        197'        1980        1990           1965     1970      1975     19S0      1999      1960g   1-.LI,.
3-erA-araxe   atI97,6 9 Pr i'xs & F-ahaeH~c ta-sAooc "                                          nua :ewhotsAs 7.a
Grs  uecc?oat             15683.9   22 312.2   30763.9        37187.6     39418. 9    41389.8     58051.4     124168.1        7.3        6.6      6.1       7.0      7.9      99. 0     13. 0    99.1
Cains ra    Te-c.  of Trade   +       16.43    -4.I.7                     4.          51.5      _306.6       527.8       1429.5                                    LI1. 5    10. 5      0.1 L               .
G-oss lees   -cOca                15680.2    22269.3    307.1.6        37231. 9    39470.4     41696.4     5857 9 .2   125597.6        7.3       6. 7      6. 3     7.Q      1i-.     TU'uo      !17276    7.
,operts' (isa1. ";Fs)              1822.3     2125.9     3333.2         3767. 7     4612.7      4614. 5     6925. 9     1724S.8       3. 1       7.2       9.0      7. 1      9.6      11.6        g.8    1.
E-art (ica--rran-ity)              9679. 3   -1979.0    -~2658. 2       34 1.7      3753.9      LO014. 0    6874.6      17396.1        3.3       6.-1      8.6     11.4       9.7     -07         - 9.6  1
esrCe Ga,                       143.0     145.0      347.0          426.0       658.8       680.4        51.3       -147. 3       0.5      18.0      11.0    -36          .         .9        L. .9
1csallr                   2,31.6    17107.6    25032. 3       30360.5     32750.8     32498.9     45685.6      97139.7        6. 6       7.1      6.0       6.4      7. 8     82. 3      Si.4    78.0
Isetet2918.6                         4611.6     6551. 3        7297.4      7578. 3     6797.9     12945.0      28310. 7       9.6       5.7       7 .7      8.0      8.1      IS.6       19.8    2 2. 1
Oc-etic S.'-iegs                   2773,6     4464.7     5734.3         6871.4      6719. 5     8197.5     12893.7      28458.0       10. 0     .5.1       7.4      9.5       8.2      17. 7      16.6  232. 1
RainlS-ir.zs                  2703.8     4281.8     5289.4         6190.8      504.3       7195.7     11556.3      26239.7        9.6       4.3       6.3      9.9       8.5      17.2       17.32   19. 7
Trade in Goods -ne IlFS                                             An..ual Data at Current Prics                                                                                       AA Zof a:l
Feud                                 17.6       25.4       91.8          149.1       376.1       258. 0      464.2       1962.8        7.6      29.3      23.0     12.5      13,5       1.1 I      .      2. 7
PEoaaad Prodacts               31.0       23.9      42.6          264.7       362.0        75.0        261          46.9        6.8       12.4     10.3   . 17.9       6.0       2.         Z. .1
Itner :."  lo-ds                    917.6     1236.0     2217.6         3424.5      5162.1 .    6002.0     13 535. 7   64937. 1        6. 1     12.4      22.4     17.3      17.0      59.5      673     7.
lsaatr Srvcs572.3                     792.3      944. 3        1269.4      1429.0      1449.9      3451.9      18011. 1       6.2       3.6       9.0     18.9      16.6      37. 1     26. 6   19.68
TrIa  lora1541.7                              2077.6     3296.5         5107.8      7320.2      7879.9     17477 .9    82957.9        6.2        9,7      19.0     17.3      06.8    100.0      143.0   101.4
a,,,ort s
AgeedSrica1ta-a1 Gooda         324.5      4'a.3      338.6          437.5       596.6       630.4      1088.5       2916. 5       7.7      -5.2      13.2     11.5      10.3      22.4       12. 3   6. 3
.erlo:ad Pries23.6                        40.1       33.4           30.0       123.0       500.0      1010.8       1743.0       14.2       -0.9     67. 1     15.1      5.6       1.5        1.4     5.11
S O.eutd Inras92.5                              77.9       91.5           82.2       119. 1      114.5       196.8       666.3       -4.0        3.3       4.6     11.4      13.0       6.8       3.3     1.1
16saatrs101.5                         228.8      355.4          838.0      1175.1      1279.3      3897.2     22718.6        15 -3     11.6      29.0     25.t5     17.3       7. 5     13.1    21. 5
8:ae  Zods                          178.3      398.0      570.8          757.7       94.          2.        331        10411.6       17.3        7.6     10.1      20.5      16.1     13.1       3C.8    135I
Nee-Fac-ter Sericee                 572.5      702.3     1397.7         2384.9      3009.1      3405.3      8812.8     45210.2         6.3      12.0      19.5     20.9      17.8     42.1       50.9    53.4
let.1 Exports                      1358.9     1954.4     2745.3         4530.2      5952.3      6854.6    17348.4      83666.3        7.5        7.1      20.1     20.4      17.0    000.0      100.0   IIC.0
T-ade Indices                                                      Ave~ral  1967-69 - 100
EsetPieIdx83.10                        92.77    105.55          137.39      160.90      1489       273.34 .     524.01       2.2        2.6     11.9       8.1     13.4
.o  l Pie. Ine-07-9.0                                 152            13557       158.0        70.77      252.36       480.95       3.9       1.5      10.2      8.1      13.7        ..
,o-.  of Tr-e           ~           102.96      94.96    100.25          101.34      101.39     108.27      108.32       108.93      -1.6        1.1      1.6         -
1xport Vol-:         -69.80                     86.90     109.81         139.52      156.65      156.82     268.54       675.57       4.5        9.8       7.4     11.4      20.3
aleAdde,d be Sectr.                                     Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and &ehnsRates
PrinarY                            2760.2     3417.6    4025.1         4241.2           .                       ...                   4.4        3.4                          ..      17.3       13.0
S.-cnda ry                         4353.2     6717.2   10415.5         12690.3          .                       ...                   9.1        9.2       ..        .         .      27.6       33.5
T_rtiary it                        8459.2    12118.0   16641.2         20253.1          .                        ...                  7.0        6.0       ..        ..        .      5.9         3.
To-a   (GDP)                      15772.6    22249.8   31501.8         37184.6          .            .           ...                  7.2        7.0      6. 3      7.0       7.     10.        100.0   1403,0
PaNlic Sect-r Financ    (Ca-nlidate,d PobIIc Sector)                                                                                                                                     A., %of To-a
Total Receipt                         ..     2882.0     4025.4         4388.2      5242.7      6539.6     11029.8            .         ..        6.9     10.2      11.0       ..     100.0      100.0  105.0
CI.,rret E  enirs..                          2397.5     3165.0          2975.0      3468.9     3973.4      5805.1            .         ..        5.9      4.5       6.9       ..        ..        ,.2   32.6
.uar.4far Ic-et-zn               .       49.4.5     841.4          780.        906.&      1103.9      4353.5            .         .       11.7      1'.7     19! I                          '; ,   39.5
icesnet                                .      1485.8    1766.1          2900.5     3153.5      3725.1      6098.4            .         ..        3.5     16,1      00.4       ..        .        51.6   5.53
eiit1001.3                                    824.7         2119.7      2207.5      1779.7      1741.5           .          ..     .1.6       14.0     -0.4        .          .      34. 8   05.8
publOcinpnit
(A  . To:l P.f. ExP.)                           /         2
Ed.r:aio.                             .        13V        12)?-          32            .                       .                    Det.ils o   Public Snecter.Ana.vost
OIler SodIe   Ser.-          .                  16        17)                          .                       ..                                               At 1947-69 P     ER A7. .t 7.a    -1n
AfrlcoltutO                           .          5         8                           .          .            ..                                               1965-73    19741-52    1945-73    164,4-823
Ocbor EcV.nic Sor.-           .                 36        31             :0,O..                               ...                   Industry                      739         .          37.4
AAn-n, ad Other                               '30         32             19            .                       ...                  AZricolt-r                    233         ..         12.7
T:I1063                                       I 00           100            .                      ..                   Transport a-ed C-.na.          495         .22.5
Social1                        509         .          24.9
Iece  dcaoaAdasicitcatino aid Defes 4..                                                                                            9         ..2.4
(atatdfros 3 vee   avr~     d.dte)                               1960          1965        1970        1975                  Total.                        232.7                  100.0
2.96          197         1075 i_l    1920
Av-rage ICOR                                                           2.59          3.16        3.04        2.88
I=Port tldslicity                                                       .59          1.09        1.48        1.21
Dorgna.  anatic S-1.in,  nte                                        .28           .15         23         .27
1a8 Nat csi ..al Savings Rate                                       .24           .12         .20         .20
Labor Fo-e 8-ad-/                                               Totalao      F.-.ce                                               Val.e Added por Iolse~r (167-.69 Price- ad F. itotesl
Output par -euk-                                  Is Millions           A, 7. of Total            1960-1970                                    7. f AeorO,. i                         1590-1970
1960           1970       1980        1970          Growth Osto              1960           1970           1940           1970         Gr-t'I, Rate
Aonricalture                                  5.4            5.1       50.2        39.2              -0.6                 511.2          729.2          24.7           33.0             44.4
L,.~2.1                                           3.0       19.6       23.1                3.5               2073.0         31471.8        140.6          145.2              5.3
3.2            4.9     .29.0        -37.7               4.2               2706.0          3396.2        183.5          142.0               2.3
otl .10.7                                        13.0      100.0       100.0               2.0               1474.1         2390.9         100.0          1O00.0              4.3
not aplicoie           j/includes di-ceponcy
not evoilel1s                   2/ not con.sistent -itl  Public  iao    Section
-  il or enligiblc              2   1900 Bsnlk -tst8.ot  fron C.-ou  fiRu-es   1970 Censu   results
j~/incldes u-llnuted                                                                                                Latin Anerits and C.ribb...a P-roG   -s  I



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSTSTANCE AND DEBT
(amotunts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                 Prelim`na_a   - Estimate                               Proiected
1970         1971        1972         1973          1974         1975        1976        1977       1978         1979          1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports fincl. NFS)                    2,745.3      2,995.4      3,609.4     4,524.8       5,954.3      6,854.6      8,702.7    13,376.7   12,330.6     14,639.8      17,348.4
lz2orts (incl. NFS)                    3,296.5      3,263.0     3,852.9     5,089.7       7,320.2       7,879.9      9,347.8    10,981.9   12,864.7     15,023.3     17,477.9
Resource Balance (}l)                   -551.2       -267.6      -243.5     - 564.9      -1,362.9      -1,025.3       -645.2      -605.2     -534.1       -383.5       -129.5
Tnzerest {net)                          -215.4       -244.7       -264.4      -384,0        -703.0      - 880.0     -1,173.9    -1,269.5   -1,367.5      -1,512.5     -1,770.0
Direct -nvest enr Income                -479.6       -493.7       -593.3      -750.0        -901.0     -1,071.6    - 1,222.8    -1,391.5   -1,375.2     -1,783.1      -2,018.5
Workers' remitta.aces                  * 122.7        111.5        126.7       140.0         140.4        162.5        183.6       204.2       228.7        256.1        286.9
Current Transfert (net)                   55.5         57.4         64.3        71.1       - 75.0          78.3         84.1        90.2      101.0         113.1        126.7
Balance on Current Account            -1,068.0      - 837.1      -910.2     -t,A87.8      -2,751.5     -7,736.1     -2.77L      -2,971.8   -3,147.1     -3,309.9      -3,504.4
Private Direct Invesrment                323.0        307.0       301.0        372.8         421.0        536.6        611.4     , 696.7      788.7        892.8       1,010.6
Public K&LT Loans
Disbursements                          781.6        794.0      1,061.1     2,018.0       2,906.0      3,087.9      2,604.2     2,993.1    3,502.5      4,034.2       4,592.9
- Repayments                          -474.8       -496.0      -590.8      - 780.1        -555.2       -687.4     -1.061.5    -1,316.0   -1.629.7     -2,056.6      -2,489.2
Net Disbursements                        306.8         298.0       470.3      ,ZS7.9       2,350.8      2,400.6      1,542.8      1,677.1    1,872.8      1,977.6      2,103.7
Capital Transactions n.e.i.              540.2        432.1        343.9        12.5         104.7       -200.1        800.0       800.0      800.0         800.0        800.0
Change in net reserves                  -102.0       -200.0      -205.0       -122.6        -125.0         -1.0       -180.0      -202.0      -180.0       -202.0       -314.4
C- indicates increase)
Actual     Preliminary   Estimated
GRANTS ANTD LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                 DEBT AND DEBT SERVtCE                IJ71                       197 lfj732197
Official Grants & Grant-like              -             -            -          -
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed          3,516.6    4,010.2      5,277.6       7,598.9
Public X&LT Loans
IBRD                                   146.8         75.0        277.0       270.0       Interest on Public De;.                 227.3      258.6         361.3        563.8
IDA                                     -             -            -          -          Repayments on Publir 7 ot               496.0      590.8        780.1         555.2
Other Multilateral                     112.3         63.2         73.2        89.5       Total Public Debt S   ice               723.3      849.4      1,141.4       1,119.0
Goveronments                            80.3         54.4        65.5        451.5       Other Debt Service   . )                 17.4        5.8         23.1         '39.6
Suppliers                               69.7         77.3        75,2         50.0       Total Debt Service    c)                740.7      855.2      1,164.5       1,258.6
Financial Instirutions                 434.4        638.7       627.3     1,761.1
Bonds                                   -            44.8       176.5        103.1       Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Public Loans n.e.i.                     -            -            -            -           Public Debt Service                    23.3       22.7         24.5          18.4
Total Public M9LT Loans                   894 955.4              1,2848.7    2,7253.         Total Debt Service (TDS)               23.8       22.9          25.0 .       20.7
TDS + Direct Invest. Tncome            39.7       38.8         41.0          35.4,
Outstanding & Disbursed on Dec. 31, 1973
EXTERNAL DEBT                           Million $                 Percent                    Average Terms of Public Debt -
Public '.&LT Loans                                                                           *nt. as % Prior Year DO&D               7.0        7.3          9.0          10,7
IBRD                                    808.5                   15.3                       Amort as % Prior Year DO&D             16.3       16.8         19.5         10.6
IDA
Other 'multilateral                     368.0                     7.0                    IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Governtments                            466.5                    8.8                          as % Total Public DO&D              18.8       18.0         15.3         11.5
Suppliers                               327.4                    6.2                          as % Public D"bt Service             8.3        8.5          7.7           8.5
Financial institutions                2,720.3                   51.6
Bon-ds                                  580.8                   11.0                     'DA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Public Dtbts n.e.i.                       6.2                    0.1                          as % Total Public DO&D
Total Public MILT Debt                5,277.7                   100.0                         as % Public Debt Service
no, applicable     -                e staff estimate
not available                       - nil or negligible
... not available separately           --  less than half of the
but included in total                  smallest unit shown.



a.              .-.                                                                      -a      .    a               'a        -                   'a       'a
a      -I       'a           0                                           0      II                               N                   .1       'a    'a
-a           .aa       .         .            .                                          .                             .
'a          I..                                                 C.   'a               'a                            I-I       0
.aga.
.1 'a I-. -1 ..a 0 'a.I'am'aI'a..lN,a.,'aaa....?0'-C'C'''a  'a 'aa'a..-......0,--.'a  'a 'a  0  0 a 'a 'a 0-.laI-a'-a 'a 'a . 'a l 0 'a
N 'a  'a   N -.1 'a N  N NNN   'a4-I.NN'a'a'a 'a 'a-ao-a- 'a oa'  'aN'aNN  a' N    N NO 'aN-'aN-aO-aO-aN.-ION.-'-'a-' 'aa0.l.C    'aINNO
-...........................I                                                                             *10001-C 1-I'aaIqNN-aN'a'aN'aN'a'a-a0-aN-a'a'a-a-a0'a'a.a'a-  COCN-C -" 0-a'a'a'aa''aNNal'aoa 0 'aOON'a'a''0'a'a  ON'a'aO' N NO
-I                                       'I.................-. - .                                                            'a
iN                                                                          2  PIjN
O-i-a.jalI N 0'aN-a'aN.-.NIN.l-ICN'a 'a'a 'aNN'a-aNIIC-aC -aCI'aNN-a 0..?'a 'aNN'a'a 'a-a'aNNN-a4N 'aNNO,NNO
o    .a.-C             .1N1        .1     1-l'O     N     N    'aNN                  N    N  'aNN   ON'a'a   1'.      N
N      'a       0   'aN    'a                'a a,.-.              0   ONa' 01     0   NI   N    'a        NIN  N
11             1-.jNNai -1    'a        am 'a'a     -*                -a  04        I'.1     -a'aN  CI    001     N    'a       'aNN 'a
N NON N'ala' 'a N-a-a 'aa'a'aO 0O 'a Nja'a
010000     ]0...0   '   *0 .00000     0   -000 .000000 000         -0 -'C' CI                     000       00   00 .0000        '0  0  01000         
* N  .-l             4 'a    N                 'a  N N       l1N .1 NN    'al   'a'aI        .-l       'a1
t
o       0                                                                        I         I  I                 I                              OaaN   01       101
0   'a   0'a I' ON    oa0         0        O    jO                N'a'a 0I*      0101   'a
a-a                                                                 .a 'a     0-a 'a' 'aN  ONO         0                               --     p000
'a             I0.00                -I                                     'aN0NN1a1'a         000          0                           o] 'a'a'a  0      o.-   0
0                        01000000 .j000000000000000000000                    N 00-a 00        j               4'a                            'ai-'
010          41             0  4                        NIN          'a00'a'a          00        N                    4.10       ale
010                         N  'a                       o0          N 00 'a 'a        010        I                 'a'a'aO  000        'a 'a
-I                          ooooooooo                  *1         ii
'a                      'ala,                        a 'a                        'aJO         N 000-a           aajo                           000     N  NO      'a  N
00                                     1             .1 4                        NiN          N'a'a'aN           '                                  0    0     01
00                                .0.0000000000000                     01       - .00000      '000
a. C    -a-a            'a''a                                                    NjN                            j'                        'al
-a             o  0                                                    0   00       'a    11          Nb                           'aI00'a           4   N
0    0       'a     '                   'ala,
I            I                                                               I
.1 a a            0   0                                                     I                            NC.l                        'I 00 'a
.1 'a .-'a-a             0  0                                                    0  00        -a     '          NJN                          'aJ000               N   'a
010                                                   01 O        NIN              NiN                                     01000
.4                                               . '-0
-a -a   a a    010000      0 -0000    oIooooooOOooOOoOOOOOOOO             000      0 - -C. 01   000000000
NN                                                     41           N'                Nb
'abo'a    N  N    N-a 'a      'a      4  'a 'a  .'aa      -a      40'aa'       0'a'aN'aa.-aONN   'aNO'a  'a I 'aNa'0'ao       N4'aN     4'a'a
'a.a 'a        N      0  'a 'a  oo'a       N      .ao-aa.      NI'aN-a'a'a.'aN4  'a'ao     I                 04
.1ONNN'aN'a'a'a   000.-I   'a-oa'
O               -l'-00    .00 '-:"'. 'a1oooo 'a-000'a.0'-'.0'a0V'0000 N        4  '-001                                                   NI4la4    .1'12
'a      -*                 0                  'a     ON         'a        N         N N       'ajOlaNN'aN'aONNN N        j.a'a -a 00000      'a1a          .0
Nj.-l-.   NI-a         N1      -a    -a N       .-        .-'          N       'aN    N  'a.-a     'a N          aa .                             am         a
a       a. 'a            NIN          Nj                                         I'' N     NI    N           NI-a
IjN0     OIN'a  N     ONNON     -t'a0000'a  'aN'a Ill 'a'a'a'a4  'a I  'a    -a I  N400    NO   0100    'a    'aN  N'aN014   41'a 'a  'ala,
0                   ImO  laO   N      NN'IaNN'aN'aNNN       'a 0-' 01-1-aN 'aQ  NI   N       'a! a100.a.-l 00  OjON     C44N'aN'01'N'a           N    1-IN           N
-I        C-C  N'aN         NONNN'a'a'a0'a-a.aN.O'a'a.-I'a             .-1I         -.4 'a1'a4N  00  .a'0     4      'a 00004     NIN  N    414            N
a.        -a'a -II         'ata        -a .a'a      N     'a N Ca'   'a  'a      'al   0-a-a   m-l'a 010     440        1-a 'aN                           0
1-joo                                                                                                                                          olmi
a.         --  -I   0  00     .     0   -   -..      -      - - -'0     -I00'0  01   0   -''  0''    -1- 00     oo--   0''    '' -l  -a  N  N  N N  -am-a  'al  N-I  N  -al-a
a                                                  a
-a                                                 a               a            a                11
a           -   al           a                a                              -a
a'             -                            a               *-'                             a
-         a                          a.            a               ma           a.               a
a.      ala      11          ama    a          .a       -     a               '-I
a              a          a        amaa          '            o  C         00      maa      a           a'-   a
-a  a  a          -.1        .a      a  'a          a              aa         -.aa    aa        a"         -.   a-a          .1
a  a   a                    am       yam            a             aaa                  a.'I Ill)  Nal,     1-la  a"           a    *a        a
a  a                        a'       -.a           --I a.         a-Ia         a.a                         l.a  O     -      -a  a      a a
11      Mama-       U"--          .a  a         11110        a       CI -.'mI  Ca-lO     a-a '-'a            a  a' ,aal.aa  -a-ama  ,u  a  aa  .la  aa  110  a".-  a.  a.  a. a
I- a -. ma        a      a-la--"      l:aa         1-Ia  a        a11    '     ama   11110 11   aama                   a           l         U
alaa
ma  a             -'     .1-aba       a-a-a             -           11  a      a a   111-.  a'  ""a                aa  ma     a4  ma     a   ma               0
-aaa  .-l     11    amaUa-.lma                        a   -      ba       11
a.-a----   abub          -aaa                        aam.,.       a-a  a..-.ll  a                   0.l  a      'a a  a a      a                a
a       aa.a.a                                     'C       L'aaal-a.11l.aza a.a.aaa-'                   -'j-aa    "a
2  - - -          a      a a  ama  a.  '"                       II N   N       11 11  aa  a  11 ma
i.-aa            -a       mob  a      -;-'     a-la-a   a   a    >>            a.aaaaa-abb00l..alalalaa                'a    I-'aaO        
111-           Ia    am-a-: ma      11a       N-i-ama  -a-      1-""       -a'                  -a  aa-a'a
aaa-a0blabmaama a aaa-a
-Ia"   a-a .la   ma-I  a      bmaaal-. aaaaa   a-a               a   aa-  ' oaaa.      aa-a.   a
a-   -ao-.Uja    -a-:11a  ----aa    aaaazu      aaI-a   ma aaaa   aaa.- a   a  -'a  aaa    a,,-  ma
a11laa,'aaa-a411a.a'ma.-aa..l-aa           110-a
a.211-m  l-aa:a.l ala,ll.a0a.0a11al                 a.--t      maa.IIaa' IllIa    a aal-I.-'aaa                  aaa    11-ma  C       a
a  a  a           a    I a:  -a  -a  ma  -.. a --  a  .a -a  11 a  --I a  "a
ma l..a.laa--'-.aa-aaa --.Nbaa  a""ma11 l.a aaaal-.Iab abalab aa-amaaog.1a lao--' aaal,1l
aa     a baaa a   ma-a-aaaaba-..I-.l   mamama a b.-a"a  a  - ma'    ma
aaa-aa""-aa       ,.                            l'aaa"              ama11l."  aab  a    a-a ba.aaa-a-a'a  aa-aab     aaa
a 1111       amaa ala       1111 a.-aaalamaa a  amaa1la-.I  l'a
aulama  Ia aaa aaaa    aIa'a -l-aaa-aabaa.b a a-a            -  0100-a a-I-I.-'  boa  -I  aaaa a -a-am'--l   aa        11a"
aNal                             --"-------               -- ---  amamama:,  a  a,- .-I ma'a0'.aa-ma  aa.0a.  aoa.c.a 0 WMNla . "'a
.aIa0     -aUUlalUO    aI.I,lI-.I-.ma         o.-a>:)-aaI-ao 'a -'-I'-'     a  a                 a        a-
a  a                 ,a        ml                  a        ma



ANNEX I I
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1975) a/
US$ Million
Loan                                                       Amount Less
Number  Year            Borrower            Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
23 Loans fully disbursed                       1,004.9         -
527     1968   Nacional Financiera, S,A.     Irrigation         25.0         4.6
695      1970  Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Roads              21.8          5.6
793      1972  Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Tourism             22.0         14.3
820      1972  Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Ports              20.0         10.4
824      1972  Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Industry           35.0        22.0
825      1972  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.            Railways            75.0        30.3
834      1972  Comision Federal de Elec-
tricidad and Nacional
Financiera, S.A.            Power              125.0         3.4
909      1973  Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Water Supply        90.0         88.9
910      1973  Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Agriculture        110.0         52.1
934     1973   Siderurgica Lazaro Carde-
nas - Las Truchas, S.A.
and Nacional Financlera,
S A.                        Steel               70.0        44.2
968     1974   Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Roads              90.0         Q0.0
969     1974   Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation         77.0         73.6
970      1974  Nacional Financlera, S,A.     Irrigation         47.0         46.5
1022     1974  Nacional Financlera, S.A.     Airports            25.0        24.9
1053     1974  Nacional Financiera, S.A.      Irrigation         50.0        50.0
TOTAL                                          1,887.7       560.8
Of which has been repaid                         325.3
Total now outstanding                         -1,562.4
Amount Sold                  72.2
Of which has been repaid     50.2               22.0
22.0
Total now held by Bank                         1,540.4
Total Undisbursed                                            560.8
a/ No IDA Credits have been made to Mexico



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1975)
Amount in $ Million
Year      Obligor                        Type of Business          Loan   Equity Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect Circle      Industrial Equipment       0.8     -      0.8
S.A. 1/
1958      Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A/C Engine Overhaul         0.5     -      0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A. 1/           Twist Drill-s              0.3     -      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro       Steel                      2.3   21.4    23.7
66/68     y Acero de Monterrey,S.A.
1963      Tubos de Acero de Mexico,      Steel                      0.9    0.1     1.0
S. A. 1/
1963      Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/       Sodium Sulphate            0.8    -       0.8
1964/66   Industria del Hierro,S.A.      Construction Equipment     -      2.0     2.0
1970     Minera del Norte,S.A.           Iron Ore Mining            1.5     -      1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana, S.A.       Textiles                   12.0     -     12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel Periodi-
co S.A. de C.V.              Pulp and Paper             2/      2/     2/
1973      Cemento Veracruz               Cement                    10.5     -     10.5
1974      Cancun Aristos Hotel          Tourism                     1.0   0.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                   30.6  23.7    54.3
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    14.7   21.6    36.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                         15.9   2.1     18,0
Total Undisbursed                                          0,1    -      0.1
1/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold
redeemed or repaid,
2/ US$25,000.



ANNEX I I
1/                                      Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. No. 527    Fourth Irrigation Project:    $25 Million Loan of January 26,
1968; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Estimated project costs have risen by about 36 percent.
Estimated project benefits will also be higher but probably not
enough to fully offset cost increases. The economic rate of return
from the project is, however, expected to remain acceptable. The
Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30, 1976 to
enable completion of works.
Ln. No. 695    Fourth Road Project:   $21.8 Million Loan of June 26, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Five roads included in the project have been completed and
opened to traffic. The remaining six roads are expected to be
completed at various dates up to mid-1976, about one-and-a-half
years behind schedule consequent to initial delays in budgetary
allocations. Four of the project roads had cost increases, mainly
because of design revisions and sharp price increases in late 1973.
The cost overruns will be fully met by the Government.
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:    $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
All related project construction in Ixtapa Tourism Zone is
expected to be completed by mid-1975, which coincideswith the
completion of the International Airport at Zihuatanejo and the
first hotel in Ixtapa. A Trust Fund was recently organized for
the provision of urban infrastructure in the town of Zihuatanejo
and works have been undertaken since December 1974. It is now
estimated that all works related to this project will be completed
by end-1975, by which time 526 hotel rooms should also be available
in the tourism area.
Ln. No. 820    Ports Project:   $20 Million Loan of May 17, 1972; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1976
Despite some initial delays in the preparation of tender
documents and processing of disbursement applications, the execution
of this project is on the whole proceeding satisfactorily. Studies
for new port tariffs, have been completed and revised tariffs
introduced on March 7. These revised tariffs, and other ancillary
actions proposed, will substantially meet the loan requirements.
1/ These notes are designed to infor-m the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be-read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strength and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX I I
Page 4
Ln. No. 824    Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million Loan
of June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The loan became effective on October 12, 1972. After a slow
start due to organizational problems, FONEI's estimates to commit
the Bank funds by the second quarter of 1975 and has recently been
appraised for a possible second loan by the Bank.
Ln. No. 825    Second Railway Project:  $75 Million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Due to increased costs and delays in implementing a recommended
tariffs increase, the financial position of the railways did not meet
the agreed targets established in the loan documents. New tariffs
have been, however, put in force on January 1, 1975. Execution of
this project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 834    Fourth Power Sector Program:  $125 Million Loan of June 23,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
The construction program has been delayed by over a year except
for frequency unification, which is ahead of schedule. Recently, the
borrower has tried to improve its overall construction performance by
strengthening its construction management and the results of the last
six months have been encouraging. The sector's financial performance
was unsatisfactory in 1974 and the Government is considering remedial
measures to improve it.
Ln. No. 909   Mexico City Water Supply Project:    $90 Million Loan of June 18,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Physical execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
However, disbursements from the loan account have been delayed due to
unresolved administrative arrangements between the Mexico Valley Water
Commission (the executing agency) and the Federal Government. It is
expected that disbursements from the Loan account will soon increase
substantially reflecting the progress of the project. A sales contract
between the Water Commission and the State of Mexico, which is a
condition for disbursement of funds aggregating over $40 million,
continues to be under negotiations.   Meanwhile, interim arrangements
have been worked out for the sale of water in a limited number of
communities within the State of Mexico.
Ln. No. 910   Fourth Livestock and Agriculture Project:    $110 Million Loan
of June 18, 1973; Closing Date:   June 30, 1978
Commitments and disbursements of sub-loans are progressing satis-
factorily and are ahead of schedule.   The amount under the Low Income
Producers Sub-Project is almost fully committed and under the General
Sub-Project is expected to be fully committed by March 1975. Increased
discount rates to the participating banks and higher onlending rates to
borrowers under the General Sub-Project are being proposed to meet
rising costs of loan administration.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 934    Las Truchas Steel Project:   $70 Million Loan of September 12,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Execution of the project and procurement of the equipment
financed by the loan are progressing as scheduled. Cost increases
are, however, expected due to world-wide inflation.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:   $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This loan became effective on May 29, 1974. The engineering
for the six roads included in the project, for which detailed engineer-
ing had not been completed at the time of Board presentation, has now
been completed. The economic justification of the roads concerned
has been confirmed on the basis of final cost estimates. Construction
works on two road sectors have recently started.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project:   $77 Million Loan of March 1,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The loan became effective on May 29, 1974. Execution of the
project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 970 - Rio Sinaloa irrigation Project: -$$47 Ai i-ior--Loan-of-March-1-,
T974l, Clos-ing Date: December 31, 1980
The loan became effective on May 29, 1974. Execution of the
project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1022  Airport Development Project:    $25 Million Loan of May 28, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The loan became effective on September 16, 1974. The first
group of contracts for this project was awarded in November-December
1974, for amounts averaging 15 percent above appraisal estimates
including contingencies. Discussions have been initiated with the
Government to avoid deidys, which would add to further cost
increases.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:    $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan became effective on January 27, 1975.



ANNEX IlIl
Page I
MEXICO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor           : The United Mexican States
Amount                 US$110 million equivalent
Terms               : Payable in 25 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Project Description:   The project consists of directly productive, productive
support and social infrastructure components designed
to raise the income and improve the standard of living
of poor rural families in 30 selected micro-regions
throughout Mexico. The individual project components
are summarized below:
Directly Productive Components
a. Construction and rehabilitation of small water
facilities including pump schemes, storage dams and
distribution networks to irrigate about 30,000 ha
and to provide for domestic and livestock use;
b. Development of livestock through land clearing,
pasture establishment, perimeter fencing, and
construction of watering and handling facilities;
c.  Soil and water conservation, using labor-intensive
methods, where a4ppropriate, to build contour ridges,
terraces, checkdams and other conservation works
on about 90,000 ha;
d.  Establishment of orchards, including land clearing,
ditch preparation and planting of a total of
9,500 ha;
e. Other productive investment, including beekeeping,
forestry and fisheries development;
f. Provision of seasonal production, and medium- and
long-term development credit to use the productive
infrastructure most effectively.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Productive Support Components
a. Construction of about 2,000 km of feeder roads,
especially to service areas in which agricultural
development is supported;
b. Installation of electric power distribution
systems to service about 160,000 persons;
c. Provision of mobile shops, and construction
of small market stores and warehouses for sale,
purchase and storage of farm inputs, farm produce
and rural consumption goods;
d. Organization, sensitization and training of farmers
by specialized multidisciplinary teams; and
e. Provision of intensive technical assistance
packages, including field testing and demonstra-
tion, to promote adoption of modern farming
methods.
Social In.frastructure
a. Installation of water supply systems to serve
about 170,000 persons, half of which would receive
the water at the house lot;
b. Construction or renovation and equipping of 220
health posts and 70 rural health centers;
c. Construction or renovation and equipping of 1,150
classrooms to accommodate about 60,000 students;
d. Provision of materials for self-help activities in
ejidos and villages, such as workshops and community
centers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Support of a new Center for Research in Rural Development
to carry out project related evaluation and applied
research and to train PIDER planning and administrative
staff.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million      % Foreign
CQmponents                       Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. Directly Productive
A.  Infrastructure Livestock   16.8   4.2    21.0      20
Irrigation                36.4    8.8    35.2      25
Fruit Production            5.1   0.6     5.7      10
Soil and Water
Conservation              9.0    1.4   10.4      14
Beekeeping                  1.1   0.0     1.1       0
Forestry                    1.6   0.2     1.8      10
Fishery                    0.1    0.0     0.1      20
Sub-Total                60.1  15.2    75.3
B. Credit
Development Credit        36.4    9.1    45.5      20
Seasonal Production
Credit                   15.8   2.2    18.0      12
Sub-Total               52.2    11.3   63.5
II. Productive Support
Feeder Roads               12.0   0.9    12.9       7
Electrification            9.1    3.0    12.1      25
Extension and Field
Demonstration            14.2   0.9    15.1       6
Farmer Organization         5.9   0.2     6.1       4
Marketing                   1.3   0.1     1.4       5
Sub-Total               T2.5    5.1    47.
III. Social Infrastructure
Health                     2.8    0.5     3.3      15
Education                  5.0    0.8     5.8      15
Drinking water             10.0   2.5    12.5      20
Self-Help Projects         3.2    0.2     3.4       5
Sub-Total               21.0    4T.    25.0
IV. Evaluation                      0.6    0.1     0.7      10
V. Total Base Line Cost          176.4   35.7   212.1     (17)
Physical Contingencies     12.7   2.5    15.2
Expected Price Increases  55.9   11.3    67.2
VI. Total Project Cost            245.0   49.5   294.5     (17)



ANNEX III
Page 4
Percent
Allocation of Bank Loan:   Components               US$ Million    of Total
Directly Productive        63.8            58
Productive Support          24.8           23
Social Infrastructure       13.4           12
Unallocated                  8.0            7
Total Bank Loan         110.0          100
Estimated Disbursements:   FY     Year-by-Year         Cumulative Amount
(US$ million)
1975       7.5                     7.5
1976      41.7                    49.2
1977      40.7                    89.9
1978      20.1                   110.0
Procurement Arrangements: The following procurement procedures would be
applied for civil works and building construction,
machinery, equipment, materials and supplies:
i. Contracts would be grouped, where feasible,
into larger packages in order to obtain
more competition in bidding.
ii.  All coiitracts and purchases exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent would be awarded
under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. A preference for domestic
suppliers of 15 percent would be permitted
in the evaluation of bids for manufactured
items.
iii.  Contracts of less than US$250,000 equivalent
would be let under local competitive bidding, or
as negotiated contracts under normal government
procedures which are satisfactory, or executed
by force account, provided that not more than
US$60 million of the Bank loan would be used to
finance such contracts.
Rate of Return             Average economic rate of return in the 15 appraised
micro-regions is 16 percent.
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 660-ME, dated April 16, 1975.   Central
Projects Staff, Agriculture and Rural Development
Department.



PROJECT IMPACT BY MICRO-REGION
Ecological    Rural                  Infrastructure 2/   Family Income-    Econ. Rate./
Micro-Region 1/                Zone     Population  Investment   tiectricity  Water  Before  After      of Return
--                                   (US$ p.c.)       Mt       _()       ' (S$)  -(S)        Mr
1. Baja California Sur. Arid              36,712        113          2          4    615     1,435         12
2. Fresnillo-Calera      Arid              68,980       171           -        13    420        950        11
3. Aguascalientes        Semi-arid         72,311       118           -         2    3'O      1,000        13
4. Noreste Guanajuato    Semi-arid         71,451       152           6         5    450      1,150        16
5. Sur Nuevo Leon        Semi-arid        102,620       141           8        11    450      1,300        23
6. Cos~ala-Elote         Transition        47,895       241         31         26    370        830        13
7. Francisco Villa       Temperate         43,905       232          30        15    480      1,150        16
8. Oriente Morelos       Temperate         44,995       206           -        17    380        680        14
9. Zacapoaxtla           Temperate         60,790       177          23        16    350        680        17
10. Ixtlahuacan           Dry Tropical     42,853        188           1         1    525      1,935        23
11. Ometepec              Dry Tropical      51,781       211         11          8    575      1,090        13
12. Valles Centrales      Dry Tropical      53,046       181          5         13    320       890         18
13. Valles San Luis
Potosi              Dry Tropical     29,857        190          -          4    480      1,430        20
14. Hecelchacan           Wet Tropical      24,690       336           5        15    275        550        18
15. Sur Yucatan           Wet Tropical      11,594       658          56        18    230       960         15
Average Micro-Region-                       50,898       197           7         9    420      1,160        16
1/ See attached map for location.
2/ Number of beneficiaries expressed as a percentage of total population in project area.      Figures only refer
to beneficiaries of the Bank supported program and do not include infrastructure provided during the
first and first two years, respectively, under PIDER.
3/ Data based on actual, but not necessarily representative villate/ejido budgets.
T/ Unweighted average except for economic rate of return.
m
X



I                                                                              I0
|                                                                                                                        IBRD 11418
UNIITED  STATE
W                                                         5   T A   T ES
|  s                        -   *r        9                                                         a/lyy tdprg//ell  or  ceelane h  Oea
MEXICO   Mxc
PC                                                       C C
30'                                                                                                                    U300AL
0 C o      EL SALVADOR
-X                                                                                                                                        PAAM .  L-Fih)'-   ''. -
0                        SO    OR cor pic a,. n                                                                                                           * :ilF  NGO -8 Nt.
30'
CAIORI SU      i N 0| j!; jj@r-- -.t,SR DEA
E900 Ie bounidaries slow                                                     on ti 'ap do pot
imiply  endorsement o  cetneb  h
I  Micro  andorld Banik and its afaTE
|'-                   CHIUULHUA                      A
0                                                                         /
('0                                          TRNIIN                                    m ioAXACAt- -) 0!0BLZ
|                 - -- -' -                                                       K. ona e  MTPCa   A   SCNRLS,
|30                        5FRANCI CO
VNULTO                                                                    i              - G ulf
.. 7
PCC  'l CI                           01                                                                           ofE0
BAJA  SUIiI1:Il.1             U   A    G  1       j/        'm   '                                      -
CALIFORNIA SUR   I                                                 .--'SUJRDE
/               NUEVO LEON                             M     ,
LAOA      f ZACATECASr
HIGHLANDS  P5iILOfr                TAMAULIPAS
I'                            ~S A N  '-
MEXICO                                    Lr (,1.       LUI
RURAL     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  ILiC.NA\AU.              /
NAYARIT I  - "'J-
AGUAS           p
MICRO     REGIONS                                 C'    CLI \TE5i1                           F INLA GED RA                 Y UC A TAN
2'/G UNJUATO                                                                                                             DEYUCATA,"
LOCATION OF PROJECTS                       J A L IS C 0A      .     0                                                          \,
Micro Regions and Their Climates                                       \ HALO',-               ACOATA7 TERRTR                               S  0
ARID                       -'            / ~Mexico  ~   /~O
CARID                                             T  "-vI QUINTAN                                         O
SEIAI                 XTLAHUACAN>/VJACHAA        MEXIC)                                         HELCAN
 LZ] HUMID TROPICAL                   CMIA-7"'~                         P U E BLA~
____O P -I E I DE\ \\~                                                                      CAMPECHE      / i
~  0                                                   -RYTR  CALMORELS )I
~~~ ~TEMPERATE                                 ~'
__TRANSITION               rlGERR                                                "~     ~    I     N.
Stat   Boudaris                           OMTEPE INV       ALLES CENTRALES
State  oundaris  '1                         OMTEPEC1 ~DE OAXACA          '1..                         ;
International Boundaries  Nk                                                                 C  I AP AS
0 100  200  300  400  500                                                                                      *1   GUATEMALA
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                   HODRS'
1100                                            1000                                             900o.      EL'-
SALVADGA -



