CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1110 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER)
BETWEEN
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 22, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1110 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER)
BETWEEN
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 22, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1975, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
ten million dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, and in an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Banco de Mexico, S.A., but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to enter into this Guarantee
Agreement;
0               NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual


﻿4
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to Banxico for purposes of
Part 4 of the Project will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for carrying out such part of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide Banxico or cause Banxico to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or cause the Project to be carried out, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering, agricultural and other relevant technical practices.
(b)   The Project shall be carried out in such regions as the Guarantor and
the Bank shall agree.
(c)   The Project shall be carried out in accordance with such investment
plans for each region as the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree; it being understood:
(i) that not less than 70% of the total cost of each such investment plan shall
be for investments included in Parts I to 10, both included, of the Project; and
(ii) that the estimated return thereon shall not be less than 10%. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any decrease in such investments, and any increase
or decrease of more than 30% in any of the planned investments included in Parts
11 to 13, both included, of the Project, shall require the prior concurrence of
the Bank.
(d)   Within one year after the date of this Agreement, or such other period
as the Bank shall agree, the Guarantor shall cause the formulation of a budget
for selected villages or ejidos in each of the regions included in the Project so
as to have an adequate representation of the investment plan in the villages and
ejidos to be developed in the regions included in the Project. Such budgets shall
include estimated cash flow of, and labor demand induced by, the planned
investments.


﻿5
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall formulate the investment plans referred
to in Section 3.01 hereof, and shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project
to be carried out, through the organizational arrangements made by the Guarantor
under its Programa de Inversiones Pblicas para el Desarrollo Rural (PIDER), with
the agencies set forth in the Annex to Schedule I hereto, as such Annex shall
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall include in Part I of the Project only
such facilities as shall be justified in the light of technical and socio-economic
appraisal studies carried out in accordance to the criteria currently applied by the
Guarantor through its Plan Nacional de Obras de Riego para el Desarrollo Rural.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such facilities, to be included
in Part I of the Project, shall satisfy the following conditions:
(i)         facilities to supply water for domestic use and for livestock
watering purposes: their investment cost must not exceed
the equivalent of $32,000 and such facilities must benefit
at least eight families of beneficiaries;
(ii)        facilities to supply water for irrigation purposes to an area
up to 25 hectares: their investment cost must not exceed
the equivalent of $32,000 and such facilities must benefit
at least eight families of beneficiaries, except that if the
net agricultural a..nual income of the beneficiaries' families
does not exceed the equivalent of $2,500, the investment
cost of such facilities per family of beneficiaries must not
exceed the equivalent of $24,000; and
(iii)        facilities to supply water for irrigation purposes to an area
exceeding 25 hectares: their investment cost per family
of beneficiaries must not exceed the equivalent of
$24,000.
(c)   The Guarantor shall collect such water charges in respect of water
supplied through the facilities referred to in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (iii) hereof
as shall be necessary to recover all the operation and maintenance costs of such
facilities, and, with respect to water supplied through the facilities referred to in
sub-paragraph (b)(iii) hereof, as much of their investment cost as it shall be
reasonable taking into account the ability of said farmers to pay and the need
to maintain an incentive for them to make best use of the land and water available
to them.


﻿6
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall carry out soil and water conservation works
included in the Project only after (i) preparing detailed conservation plans on a
watershed basis, and (ii) obtaining assurances that the beneficiaries of such works
will maintain them under the Guarantor's supervision.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall construct the facilities included in Part
3 of the Project in accordance with economic design standards.
Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor recognizes that in order to be able to make
full productive use of their land and other resources, farmers in the regions included
in the Project must have access to short-, medium- and long-term agricultural credit,
fertilizer and improved seeds, on reasonable terms. To this end, the Guarantor
shall take all measures necessary to ensure that such credit, fertilizer and improved
seeds will be made available in such regions in the quantities and at the time required
to utilize fully the other resources available.
(b)   The Guarantor shall take all action which shall be necessary or advisable
to enable Banxico to apply and cause to be applied the credit policies provided
in the Project Agreement in respect of the medium- and long-term loans included
in the Project.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction on the obligations of the Borrower
pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Guarantor shall transfer to the Borrower
such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest, and other charges on the Loan; provided that the funds to be
so transferred on account of interest and other charges on the proceeds of the
Loan transferred by the Borrower to Banxico for purposes of carrying out Part
4 of the Project shall be withdrawn by the Guarantor from the Fondo Especial
de Asistencia T&cnica y Garantia para Crditos Agropectiarios.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall cause the facilities included in Part 10
of the Project to be adequately operated.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall, in carrying out Part 8 of the Project,
(i) cause teams which are expected to include agronomists, sociologists and lawyers
to assist ejidatarios as well as other farmers in the regions included in the Project,
and (ii) cause the members of such teams to receive not less than one month's
training prior to their working in the Project.
Section 3.09. The Guarantor shall carry out Part 9 of the Project in
accordance with an operational program satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.


﻿7
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, investments for health
facilities included in the Project shall be carried out only in those villages where
the beneficiaries shall contribute not less than 10% to their construction cost.
Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall at all times cause the educational and
health facilities included in the Project to be adequately staffed and operated.
Section 3.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the investment costs per capita for the works included in Part 7 of the
Project, including transmission from the main power grid to any village and of
distribution to the consumers, shall not exceed the equivalent of $150; and
(b)   the Guarantor shall cause the rates for the sale of electricity distributed
in the regions included in the Project to be charged and collected according to
the rates for the sale of electricity applied generally in Mexico.
Section 3.13. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) investments for
rural water supply included in Part 13 of the Project shall be carried out only
in those villages where the beneficiaries shall contribute not less than 15% of the
investment cost, and provided that the remainder of the investment cost shall not
exceed the equivalent of $100 per beneficiary; (ii) in the case of water supply
systems with household connections, beneficiaries shall pay for all expenditures
for investments within their property; and (iii) beneficiaries shall be charged for
the sale of water at such rates as shall be -iecessary to recover the full cost of
operation and maintenance of the water supply facilities.
Section 3.14. Materials costing not more than the equivalent of $40 per
beneficiary shall be distributed on a grant basis to participants in the self-help
programs included in the Project.
Section 3.15. The Guarantor shall cause the works and facilities included
in the Project to be maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering,
public utility and other pertinent standards.
Section 3.16. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be purchased, carried out or obtained in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Guarantor shall use, or cause to be used, economic and efficient
labor intensive methods in the construction of Project works.


﻿8
Section 3.17. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Guarantor to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.18. (a) The Guarantor shall, at the Bank's request, furnish to the
Bank the plans, specifications, contract documents and work schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress and cost of the Project, to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to show the results achieved by the Project, and to show the extent
to which the investment, operation and maintenance costs of the services provided
under the Project have been recovered as required by the provisions of this
Agreement; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.19. The Guarantor shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained,
separate accounts to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the financial situation of the Project; (ii) cause such accounts
to be audited annually, applying sound auditing principles, in conformity with the
laws of the Guarantor; (iii) promptly make available to the Bank copies of such
accounts, as so audited; and (iv) furnish  to the Bank such other pertinent
information concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request from
time to time.
Section 3.20. The Guarantor shall obtain and keep such information on each
of the regions included in the Project, as shall bs required to evaluate the results
of the investments carried out in them under the Project.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any governmental assets (as hereinafter defined),
as security for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other governmental assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets
of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency; and the
term "agency" means any agency or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any
political subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Guarantor
or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations of which are
conducted primarily in the interest of or for the account of the Guarantor or
any political subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of
any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by Banxico of its obligations contained in the Project


﻿10
Agreement, and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable Banxico to perform such obligations.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor
Section 5.01. Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The Guarantor hereby agrees that all notices and requests given
or made by the Bank to the Borrower shall be deemed to have been given or
made also to the Guarantor.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
BY: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ Hugo Cervantes del Rio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the development of about 30 regions in the main
ecological zones of Mexico. It is expected that the regions will, on the average,
have about 50,000 inhabitants.
The Project includes:
1.    Irrigation. Construction and rehabilitation of small-scale water facilities,
including small wells, small dams, deep wells, pumping plants, and ancillary
distribution facilities to irrigate about 30,000 hectares of farm land and to
provide for domestic and livestock use.
2.    Soil and Water Conservation. Construction of contour ridges, terraces and
checkdams for gully protection and other conservation works to maintain
and improve about 90,000 hectares of farm land.
3.    Infrastructure  for  Livestock   Development.    Land    clearing,  pasture
establishment, perimeter fencing, and construction of watering and handling
facilities for the development of beef, dairy, sheep, pig, rabbit, poultry, and
goat production, and construction of beekeeping facilities.
4.    Agricultural Credit. A program of seasonal and medium- and long-term credit
for small farmers, including that required to achieve the full use of productive
infrastructure.
5.    Fruit Production, Forestry, and Fishery Development. Development of
orchard infrastructure and planting of fruit trees on about 9,500 hectares;
aforestation and reforestation; and construction of infrastructure for fishery
development.
6.    Feeder Roads. Construction of about 2,000 km. of feeder roads.
7.    Rural Electrification. Construction  of the facilities required  to make
electricity available to about 35,000 rural households.
8.    Farmers' Organization. A program   of assistance to improve the social and
economic organization of farmers.
9.    Extension and Field Demonstration. Provision of agricultural extension
services, including field testing and demonstration.


﻿12
10.  Rural Marketing. Provision of mobile shops and construction of small shops
and warehouses.
11.  Educational Facilities. Construction or renovation, and furnishing of about
1,150 primary level classrooms.
12.  Health Facilities. Construction or renovation, and equipping of rural health
posts and centers.
13.  Rural Water Supply. Construction of water supply systems to benefit about
250,000 persons.
14. Self-help Programs. Provision of materials for self-help activities in the ejidos
and villages, such as housing and sanitation improvements, community
centers, and village workshops.
15.  Evaluation. Evaluation of the effects of the above components of the Project
in the development o ' the regions. This part of the Project will not be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿13
ANNEX
Organization Plan
1.    The Secretarfa de la Presidencia will have overall responsibility for the
formulation and execution of the investment plans included in the Project, including
the coordination of the activities in respect of the Project of the other Secretarfas
of the Guarantor and of the agencies of the Guarantor.
2.    There will be a Central Coordinating Committee chaired by a representative
of the Secretarfa de la Presidencia (SP), which will include senior representatives
of, among others, Secretarfa de Agricultura y Ganaderia (SAG), Secretarfa de
Recursos Hidrdulicos (SRH), Secretarfa de Obras P6blicas (SOP), Secretarfa de la
Reforma Agraria (SRA), Secretarfa de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA), Secretarfa de
Hacienda y Cr6dito P6blico, and of Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Ejidal, Comisi6n
Federal de Electricidad (CFE), Compania Nacional de Subsistencia Popular
(CONASUPO), Comit6 Administrador del Programa Federal de Construcci6n de
Escuelas (CAPFCE), and Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo de la Comunidad
(INDECO). This Committee will be responsible for selecting the regions that would
be included in the Project, for approving the investment plans for each region,
and for coordinating the policies and general plans, with respect to the Project,
of the Secretarfas and agencies represented in the Committee.
3.    There will be a Central Permanent Working Group, chaired by a representative
of Secretarfa de la Presidencia and made up of senior technical representatives of
all the Secretarfas and agencies represented at the Central Coordinating Committee.
This Group will be responsible for making recommendations to the Central
Coordinating Committee, and for formulating the guidelines, including the
determination of the appropriate methods, for preparing, appraising, monitoring
and evaluating the investment plans for each region. This Central Permanent
Working Group will be supported by an adequate number of qualified staff, who
will be responsible for the day-to-day administration and monitoring of the
execution of the investment plans.
4.    There will be a State Rural Development Committee in each of the States
where the Project will be carried out, chaired by the Governor of the State or
his representative, and made up of the officials of the Secretarfas and agencies
mentioned in paragraph 2 responsible for the work of their respective Secretaria
or agency in that State. The State Rural Development Committees will be
responsible for the coordination of said Secretarfas and agencies in the State.
Management responsibility will be delegated in a Vocal Ejecutivo, assisted by a
Technical Support Group of qualified staff, which is expected to include mainly


﻿14
staff members of Secretarfa de la Presidencia. The Vocales Ejecutivos will, through
their respective Technical Support Group and through the Secretarfas and agencies
abovementioned, maintain close contact with, and will try to maximize the
participation of, municipal, village, and ejido authorities and local committees in
the formulation, review and carrying out of the investment plans.
5.    The Secretarfas and agencies participating in the execution of the investment
plans included in the Project will be reimbursed for their expenditures incurred
pursuant to such plans on a monthly basis, through the regional banks that
Secretarfa de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piblico will determine.
6.    The following Secretarfas and agencies referred to in paragraph 2 will be
responsible for the execution of the following parts of the Project:
1.    Irrigation : SRH and SAG
2.    Soil and water conservation    : SAG    and Comisi6n Nacional de
Investigaciones en Zonas Arides
3.    Infrastructure for livestock development : SAG, Banco Nacional
Agropecuario, and Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Ejidal
4.    Agricultural credit: Banco de M6xico, S.A., as Trustee, and as further
set forth in the Project Agreement
5.    Fruit production, forestry and fishery development: SAG
6.    Feeder roads: SOP
7.    Rural electrification: CFE
8 and 9.    Farmers' organization and extension and field demonstration:
SP (Comisi6n Coordinadora del Istmo de Tehuantepec), SRA, and
Instituto Nacional Indigenista
10.   Rural marketing: CONASUPO
11.   Educational facilities: CAPFCE and Instituto Nacional Indigenista
12.   Health facilities: SSA
13.   Rural water supply: SRH and SSA
14.   Self-help programs: INDECO
15.   Evaluation: Centro de Investigaciones de Desarrollo Rural


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    For purposes of procurement, items to be procured shall, to the extent
possible, be grouped together in groups having a minimum value of $250,000
equivalent.
3.    (i) Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 shall be
acquired either under the procedures referred to in paragraph I hereof or under
the Guarantor's ordinary procedures; and (ii) civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $250,000 shall be either carried out by the Guarantor by
force account or contracted either under the procedures referred to in paragraph
I hereof or under the Guarantor's ordinary procedures.* In the latter case, the
Guarantor may award the contract to the contractor it shall deem to be the best
qualified to carry out the works at unit prices.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Guarantor of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
*     See paragraph 3(ii) of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.


﻿16
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mexico if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Guarantor
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Mexico.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.


﻿17
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in consultation with
the Guarantor. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Guarantor shall, promptly after the execution of each contract and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, furnish to the Bank two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommencations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the reasons
for such determination.


