Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3465c-NI
NICARAGUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MUNCIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Cordoba (C$)
US$1.00            C$10.00
US$0.10            C$ 1.00
US$100,000         C$1 million
UNITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 Manzana = 0.699 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
BCN               Central Bank of Nicaragua
(Banco Central de Nicaragua)
BND              National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
BI               National Mortgage Bank
(Banco Inmobiliario)
CABEI             Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica)
FED               Special Development Fund
(Fondo Especial de Desarrollo)
FINAPRI           Preinvestment Fund
(Financiera de Preinversi6n)
FIR               International Reconstruction Fund
(Fondo Internacional para la Reconstrucci6n)
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INAA             Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
INE              Nicaraguan Energy Institute (formerly ENALUF)
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Energfa)
JRM              Managua Municipal Reconstruction Board
(Junta de Reconstrucci6n de Managua)
MINCON            Ministry of Construction
(Ministerio de la Construcci6n)
MT                Ministry of Transport
(Ministerio de Transporte)
MINVAH            Ministry of Housing and Human Resources
(Ministerio de la Vivienda y Asentamientos Humanos)
SAMU              Secretariat for Municipal Affairs
(Secretarfa de Asuntos Municipales)
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............................................    1
A.  Urbanization Trends in Nicaragua ........ ..................    I
B.  Previous Responses ......................................,               3
C.  Recent Actions and New Policy Directions.                                4
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS, AND FINANCING                   ..                 7
A.  The Project ................................................    7
B.  Project Costs ..............................................   10
C.  Financing ..................................   12
D. Detailed Project Description .-.---------------.13
III.  EXECUTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                ...   19
A.  The Reconstruction Board of Managua (JRM) .................   19
B.  The Agency for Municipal Affairs (SAMU) .........          ............   21
C.  Implementation Schedule ...................................   23
D.  Procurement ......................................,,. 23
E.  Disbursement .............................................   25
F.  Accounting and External Auditing ........ I. .................   26
G.  Supervision ....................................,.,.,,...   27
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................   28
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................                        28
A. Cost Recovery ..................                                         28
B.  The Reconstruction Board of Managua--JRM ..................   29
C.  The Agency for Municipal Affairs--SAMU ....................   33
V. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                       ..                    35
A.  Economic Benefits .........................................   35
B.  Economic Rate of Return and Poverty Impact ................    37
C.  Project Risks .............................................   39
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECONMENDATIONS..............................   40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Nicaragua in February 1981. The mission consisted of G. Gattoni (mission
leader), E. Echeverria, M. Sarris (LCPUR); D. Jones (Financial Advisor);
J.E. Alba (Consultant); and R. Chavez assisted in finalizing this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
- 11 -
Page
ANNEXES
1. Detailed Cost Estimates and Disbursement Schedules .........  42
2. Detailed Project Financial Analysis ........................  47
3. Implementation Charts and Organization Diagrams ............  57
4. Detailed Description of Subprojects and Participating
Municipalities--SAMU Component ...........................  61
5. Storm Drainage Studies for Managua .........................  67
6. Key Indicators ......................................        68
7.  Status and Evaluation of the Urban Reconstruction Project..  72
8. Draft Guidelines Discussed and Left with SAMU and JRM ......  75
9. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File..  87
MAPS
IBRD 15696--Municipal Infrastructure Improvement
IBRD 15697--Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends in Nicaragua
Urban Growth and Spatial Distribution
1.01       Approximately one half of Nicaragua's population lives in urban
areas. A network of small- and medium-sized cities concentrated along the
Pacific coastal area (in which agriculture and industry have been most dev-
eloped) is characterized by accelerated growth rates (most cities are like-
ly to double in population by the year 2000), widespread poverty, deficient
infrastructure, and an inadequate financial base. Nicaragua's urban popu-
lation has been increasing at a rate of about 4.5% per annum during the
past two decades, compared to the growth in rural areas of approximately
2.8%. While urban centers have a fundamental role in supporting agricul-
tural and industrial production, they have traditionally been neglected and
inefficient.
1.02         Managua dominates the urban sector.   Its 600,000 inhabitants
account for half the urban population and 22% of the national population.
Managua is also the most important productive center with 30% of the econo-
mically active population generating 26% of GDP, 40% of all commercial
activities, and 70% of all industrial output.  Prior to the massive earth-
quake in late 1972, Managua was growing at a rate of 7% per annum without a
development  plan or an adequate fiscal policy.   The  earthquake  (which
completely destroyed the city's center) temporarily decanted Managua's pop-
ulation. However, by 1975, notwithstanding considerable efforts to decen-
tralize growth, Managua's population surpassed the pre-earthquake level,
and it became evident that it was the only dominant urban center that could
attract, support, and activate major industry.
1.03      In spite of Managua's continuing primacy, a secondary and terti-
ary urban system has also been developing, particularly in the Pacific
region.  Four cities have populations over 40,000; 10 others are between
10,000 and 30,000; and 21 are between 4,000 and 10,000. The average growth
of all urban areas is 4.4% per annum; the 36 most dynamic municipalities
have an average growth rate of 5.1%, and several have growth rates of 8%
and 12%. This dynamic growth has taken place under the most difficult cir-
cumstances:  municipal governments have had a long tradition of being weak
and poorly managed. A fundamental imbalance between revenue authority and
expenditure responsibility has resulted in deficiencies in infrastructure
and services, and kept some of the key municipalities from coping with ex-
panding economic activity and rapidly growing populations. Municipal rev-
enues went to Central Government and few, if any, were apportioned back to
the cities.   Municipal capital outlays have normally been significantly
smaller than current expenditures.   Government grants on average account



-2-
for about 8% of municipal revenues.   Thus, most municipal revenues are
derived from locally levied taxes, fees, licenses, and sales taxes.  Pro-
perty tax is collected by municipal authorities for transfer to Central
Government. There have been occasional suggestions to strengthen the local
fiscal base and increase the autonomy and the capability of local authori-
ties to deliver support to the local economy by first improving property
registration and taxation and second, by adjusting apportionment to each
municipality. However, little has actually happened. What limited munici-
pal infrastructure and services investment occurred was confined to higher
income cities and to higher income areas within cities, without regard to
national investment planning for growth, equity, or efficiency.
1.04      Nicaragua's main urban problems are environmental and infrastruc-
tural and are related more to the service deficiencies than to housing
stock inadequacy.   For example, a survey by the Ministry of Housing and
Human Settlements (MINVAH) in 1980 indicates that, in ten of the largest
urban centers outside Managua, between 56% and 93% of the population had
deficient basic infrastructure; about 38% of the population in these muni-
cipalities did not have even minimum infrastructure (see para. 1.07).  In
the past, there has been a concentration of public investment in Managua.
This has included 21% of all investment in water supply, 91% of all invest-
ment in sewerage networks, 32% of investment in education, 24% in health,
and 85% in construction of public works.   However, despite these public
investments, MINVAH estimates that almot 70% of Managua's population (about
420,000 persons) does not have access to basic infrastructure and services
and lives in extra-legal subdivisionsl or substandard shelter.   The per-
centage of infrastructure deficit is even higher in the 10 largest second-
ary cities.
Urban Employment, Incomes, and Poverty
1.05        Although there is strong evidence linking the rapid growth of
Nicaragua's capital and other major urban centers to the growth of the
modern sector in the national economy, there is also some indication that
open unemployment is greatest at the principal destination of the migrants,
particularly Managua.   Since the revolution, only partial analysis of the
employment situation has been attempted,2 but from this and from previous
studies it emerges that open unemployment in Managua is higher than the
national average and that, within the city, unemployment is highest among
the poorest.3  Perhaps more significant is the extent of underemployment
/1 Subdivisions wherein speculators sold plots without provision of water
and sewerage networks and have no paved streets, storm drainage, or
public lighting, in violation of municipal ordinances.
/2  Encuesta  de Hogares:    Instituto  Nacional  de Estadistica  y Censos
August-September 1980.   This survey reported 13.7% open unemployment
in Managua; 9.3% for Leon, 5.3% for Masaya, 6.6% for Rivas, and 12%
for Esteli.
/3  Empleo y Salarios en Nicaragua, ILO (PREALC),  September 1980.   This
study estimates open unemployment in Managua at 17.2% and underemploy-
ment at 25%.



-3-
among the urban poor. Although nominally employed, mostly in the informal
sector, many work part-time, below their skill levels or at low productivi-
ty jobs all leading to earnings below or near the poverty line.  Incomes
and productivity are also adversely affected by lack of access to markets
and disproportionately long trips to and from places of work.  This is true
both for the self-employed and for those employed in the formal sector.
Recent reliable income distribution data are not available, but in 1977 at
least 20% of the urban population was estimated to be below the poverty
line (about US$150 per month per family) while, according to a 1980 house-
hold survey, about 50% of the urban families have monthly earnings of no
more than US$300.
B. Previous Responses
1.06        The 1972 earthquake damaged 27 km2 (over 80%) of the capital
city's total area, including all of the central commercial/administrative
center.  The resulting damage and loss of physical assets was in excess of
US$300 million (in 1973), of which about half represents public facilities
and infrastructure.   However,  the impact of the earthquake on levels of
output and employment was less than might have been anticipated considering
the magnitude of the city's destruction, main:Ly because manufacturing and
large-scale industries were located almost entirely on the city's periph-
ery, outside the major destruction zone.   The catastrophy generated, for
the first time, attention to the urban sector.   Several lending agencies
and massive grant assistance contributed to the reconstruction effort.4
The earthquake reconstruction also brought massive planning efforts and
technical assistance in the reconstruction of Managua.  The reconstruction
process, however, resulted in a wasteful extension of the city's infra-
structure networks and uncontrolled land speculation. Almost no municipal
services or infrastructure reached the low-income neighborhoods (barrios)
of Managua or any of the secondary cities.   Little was done to improve
municipal management or to reform the municipal revenue structure.   The
reconstruction effort also diverted attention from the growth problems and
needs of the smaller urban centers.
1.07       In the 1972 to 1979 period, most of Nicaragua's urban centers
experienced rapid growth and a dearth of attention to the mechanisms and
resources needed to keep pace with the resulting demands place on them. As
is the case throughout Latin America, Nicaragua has had a long and con-
tinuing tradition of weak municipal government, resulting primarily from
anemic revenues and management and neglect from central government.   The
provision of municipal services and infrastructure reflects local govern-
ment's shortcomings and Central Government's inattention: by 1976 only 65%
/4 Almost US$56 million of the estimated US$84.8 million reconstructioa
expenditures for infrastructure, public facilities, and public shelter
programs was from lending agencies, including US$15.5 million from the
IDA reconstruction credit.



-4-
of the population of the 20 largest urban centers was served with water (in
Managua 68%) and only six had any sewerage networks; those systems served
only 32% of the population of the six cities. 5  Less than 12% of these
services had been provided since the earthquake.  While there is no survey
or data of other municipal infrastructure, such as street paving, storm
drainage and municipal services and facilities, a measure of overall effec-
tiveness of local government response to urban needs is reflected in a
review of local government finances (see Annex 2, Table XI), which clearly
shows that few of these improvements could have been made.
1.08      By comparison with the earthquake, the 1979 civil war had an even
more substantial impact because it affected almost all of the Pacific
coastal urban centers.   Damage to public structures,  infrastructure and
equipment is estimated at US$85 million, most of which was to the secondary
urban centers which even prior to the war were unable to meet the needs of
their rapidly growing populations.  While much has been done to repair or
replace municipal infrastructure damaged and lost, and the newly created
local municipal governments have proven to be effective (see Annex 7), a
great deal remains to be done to overcome the original basic infrastrucrure
deficit and original city-management deficiencies.
C. Recent Actions and and New Policy Directions
1.09       The present Government is actively reversing previous policy in
the sector, and has put into effect a substantial reorientation of urban
and municipal development policies.   In its first year,  the Government
initiated major reconstruction and employment-generating programs in urban
centers  directly affected  by  the war.    Simultaneously,  the Government
enacted legislation to provide for municipal autonomy and to improve muni-
cipal revenues. Five-member Municipal Reconstruction Juntas created to be
responsible for administration of all cities and towns have provided extre-
mely dynamic, enthusiastic and effective local governments.   Although the
Juntas are somewhat inexperienced, their ability to rebuild and manage most
of the country's urban centers over the past year and a half has been
impressive.  Legislation reforming all municipalities' planes de arbitrios
(the schedule of taxes and fees levied by municipalies) has been enacted,
increasing revenues  substantially.    In October 1979,  the Secretaria de
Asuntos Municipales (SAMU) was created to foster a more balanced municipal
development and to direct investments to municipalities that have been
traditionally neglected.   The Bank Urban Reconstruction Project--Credit
965-NIC--(due to be completed in June 1982), is being implemented through
the newly created MINVAH (Ministerio de la Vivienda y Asentamientos
Humanos), and emphasizes the need not only to rehabilitate six of the
larger urban centers destroyed in the war, but to provide the basis for
future regional development planning.  The credit was signed in June 1973,
its closing date was in September 1979.  The project included a sites and
services component and industrial, education, water supply and power com-
ponents, all designed to meet emergency needs not covered by programs of
other aid agencies. The sites and services component provided safe shelter
/5 Source: DENACAL statistics, 1977.



-5-
and adequate services to low-income families affected by the earthquake,
albeit of somewhat higher standards than originally intended; it also prov-
ided for successful mutual aid/self-help sites and services.  The project,
however, had little impact on reactivating the economy or contributing to
the orderly development of Managua, as it was an emergency operation and
was executed during a period of increasing po:Litical turmoil and adminis-
trative instability.  The experience gained in this project was an impor-
tant basis for instituting new programs and policy directions for the urban
sector (see Annex 7 for a summary of project--Credit 965-NI). MINVAH moved
quickly to provide planning and project preparation for a wide range of
municipal development programs.  Six regional project implementation teams
put in place to implement the project have been an important part of this
process.   Managua's  local government  (the Junta de Reconstruccion de
Managua--JRM) has also effectively carried out a major reconstruction
effort, part of which was the repair and paving of bus routes through the
public transport rehabilitation component of the Urban Reconstruction Pro-
ject.  In the process, JRM consolidated its in-house capacity to carry out
large-scale municipal projects, and is now considered to be one of the
public sector's most capable implementing agencies.
1.10        Responding to the reconstruction thrust and new policy direc-
tions,  MINVAH  has  assisted  JRM  and  SAMU  in  defining  new  development
strategies linked to an efficient and equitable allocation of resources for
the sector. MINVAH and JRM have reassessed previous earthquake reconstruc-
tion and, in May 1980, put into effect new zoning, land use, and develop-
ment plans to regulate Managua's future growth. In order to contain waste-
ful sprawl and maximize use of existing infrastructure and usable land, a
redensification strategy has been established. A development boundary has
been defined (see Map IBRD-15697) limiting future investments. Within this
perimeter, JRM plans to upgrade infrastructure and services and thus
promote residential densification and intensify commercial, industrial, and
support activities, all with a view to increasing the efficiency of the
existing  urban  systems.    MINVAH  has  been  assigned  responsibility  for
managing several neighborhoods in which land speculators had subdivided and
sold (or rented) residential plots, but had refused to provide the essen-
tial infrastructure.   Residents of these areas,  called barrios intereni-
dos,6   are now making  their mortgage payments to MINVAH, which,  using
these payments to recover investments, will eventually provide legal
tenure, basic infrastructure and services. A staged program is envisioned:
once basic infrastructure (water and sewerage) is installed, JRM is to up-
grade paving and public lighting and to provide municipal services. Simul-
taneously, JRM has initiated the consolidation process with neighborhoods
already having water and sewerage networks.
1.11      JRM's strategy is to promote the infill of extensive vacant areas
left by the earthquake and the resultant  sprawl.   This redensification
would ultimately accommodate a population increase of over 50% by the year
2000--all of the city's projected growth.   Given the continuing seismic
/6 MINVAH is preparing a shelter project for Bank consideration which will
include a component to upgrade these barrios intervenidos in about
seven cities.



-6-
risk in Managua, the Government is developing, with the assistance of the
US geological service, a new building code which would reduce the risk of
major damage with fatalities in the event of another major quake. As part
of the consolidation, two large district centers are being developed; muni-
cipal markets and shops are already under construction; administrative,
cultural, and recreational facilities are to be added over the next five
years.
1l12        Similarly, MINVAH and SAMU have been developing a strategy for
all  other municipal  development  outside  Managua.    Because  Nicaragua's
economy is based predominantly on agricultural exports, a major proportion
of all investment has been concentrated in the Pacific Coastal Region, re-
sulting in extremely concentrated spatial investment and growth.7   While
the long-term objective of Government is to correct this disequilibrium and
tap .he resources of the Atlantic Coastal Area, it is also clear that the
development of the Pacific Zone is, and will continue to be, a high priori-
ty. However, even within the Pacific Coastal Region, concentrated produc-
tive investments in certain areas or cities have resulted in strong migra-
tion tendencies, for the most part following employment opportunities.
1.13        With a view to orienting short- and medium-term investments and
actions in the sector, the spatial development strategy proposes first
allocating investments within the agro-industrial productive centers (the
Pacific Coastal Region); strengthening the newtwork of secondary cities to
support industrial and agro-industrial investments and then giving atten-
tion to hitherto isolated and neglected centers where economic potential
exists (such as the rapidly expanding urban centers located along the
access route to the Atlantic Region); all within a long-term development
plan.   The planning process has been based on an extensive analysis of
urban centers and subregions (networks of related secondary cities) and
their growth potential within the framework of the national economy.   A
list of highest priority urban centers has been identified, using the
following criteria:
(a)  relationship of the urban centers to national production;
(b)  cross-sectoral investment plans;
(c)  potential for generating new, permanent, employment;
(d)  growth trends and potential; and
(e)  degree of existing infrastructure and support services (installed
capacity).
L-14      Four subregions outside the Managua region have been selected for
immediate attention (see Map IBRD-15697):
/7 The Pacific Coastal Region accounts for only 15% of Nicaragua's land
area, but has over 53% of the national road network, 95% of investments
4n water and 77% of new housing investments (1970-1975).  Over 65% of
the country's population (including 58% of the economically active
population) lives in the region.



-7--
(a)   The Chinandega Subregion, the second largest industrial center in
the country, has a diversified industrial base of chemical,
textile, furniture, mechanical, electrical, and canning indus-
tries. In addition, it is the marketing and processing center of
the largest cotton producing area.   It is the richest and most
productive region in Nicaragua and the prospects for continued
economic growth are good.
(b)   The Leon Subregion, with Leon as its focus, has a strong commer-
cial base. It is the third largest industrial center with glass,
milk, mechanical, and canning plants.  The presence of the UNAN
(University) School of Basic Science and numerous secondary
educational facilities have given Leon added importance as an
educational center for the country.
(c)   The Masaya Subregion is the most densely settled and has the
highest concentration of small-scale farmers. The city of Masaya
is the market center for the major coffee-producing region as
well as the major artisan center of the country.  Over a dozen
tertiary municipalities are within a 40 km radius of Masaya.
(d)   The Threshold Area to the Atlantic Coastal Region consists  of
several very rapidly growing municipalities along the major high-
way from Managua.
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS, AND FINANCING
A. The Project
Objectives
2.01        This first Municipal Development Project has been designed to
address some of the highest priority and chronic problems affecting
Nicaragua's productive urban centers.   The Managua component focusses on
two major aspects: (a) improvements to basic infrastructure constraints in
large parts of the city that affect transport and services; and (b) the
city-wide problem of storm drainage.   Both programs would benefit from a
Municipal Management component intended to assist municipal governments and
Central Government in developing the skills and capacity to efficiently
address the needs of Nicaragua's rapidly growing urban system.   A pilot
program focussing on developing the institutional mechanism to provide an
efficient allocation of resources to Nicaragua's secondary cities is also
included.    The  prime  objectives  are  to  eliminate  constraints  in  the
functioning of these urban centers and increase their efficiency, at the
same time supporting and strengthening institutional and policy develop-
ment. Particular emphasis will be given to raising adequate local revenues
in contrast to past practices of relying on the Central Government's
budget. Specifically, the project will:
(a)   protect large areas of Managua from seasonal flooding;



-8-
(b)   densify development in Managua within a newly defined city-growth
boundary that will permit rational utilization of the existing
infrastructure  network.    This  process  of  consolidation will
increase transportation efficiency and accessibility and will
contribute to an increased level of health and safety.  It will
also permit the provision of basic urban services, such as refuse
collection, to areas that could not previously have been served
comprising more than one-third of the city's population, many of
which are low-income households;
(c)   strengthen SAMU (Government's agency responsible for Municipal
Development) so that it may confront urban development issues and
provide policy assistance and resources to correct past deficien-
cies of local governments, while helping to put in place a
rational and efficient allocative strategy of investment in the
sector;
(d)   assist  SAMU  in the above  by providing financing  for a pilot
learn-by-doing investment program that will support an evolving,
replicable mechanism for generating, financing, and implementing
municipal works in harmony with urban and national spatial dev-
elopment priorities.  The project will strengthen SAMU's ability
to select and evaluate municipalities and specific subprojects
for financing through a carefully selected start-up investment
program illustrating the criteria and analysis required for
resource allocation between and within municipalities.   Through
the involvement of the financial system, the project also aims at
institutionalizing the local government aspects of the national
government's objectives for regional development; and
(e)   increase JRM  and SAMU  capacity  to  plan,  execute and control
public works and improve municipal finances, thereby raising the
efficiency and productivity of Nicaragua's urban areas.
Managua Component
2.02              The  project  will  include  two  programs  for  Managua:
(a)   Upgrading for Low-Income Neighborhoods of Managua.  The neighbor-
hood upgrading program will provide, where appropriate, improve-
ments to the basic infrastructure in 26 of the 52 neighborhoods
planned to be upgraded by JRM in the next five years, as follows:
(i)  Local  Storm Drainage.    The  neighborhood  storm  drainage
system will eliminate localized annual flooding and permit
uninterrupted bus service on local roads.
(ii) Street Paving, Curbs, and Gutters. The street network serv-
iced by public transportation will be paved to provide con-
tinuous and efficient circulation and facilitate refuse
collection. Secondary streets will be surfaced and compact-
ed with select materials within concrete curbs and gutters,
so as to control erosion and provide localized flood protec-
tion.



-9-
(iii)  Walkways and Public Lighting.  Walkways and public lighting
to improve vehicular flow and pedestrian safety will also be
provided.    Walkways  provided  under  the project  form  an
integral part of the local storm protection system by chan-
neling storm run-off to gutters and the drainage mains. In
certain areas, they are needed to control erosion and
prevent obstruction of the storm drainage system.
(b)   Major Storm Drainage Improvements.  Five storm drainage channels
that presently flood the city will be lined with masonry; veloci-
ty check dams and energy dissipators to improve hydraulic
gradients.
Pilot Municipal Development Component
2.03       A pilot program to demonstrate and test technically and finan-
cially feasible approaches to address the needs of Nicaragua's secondary
cities will be administered by SAMU.  The component aims at improving the
capacity and efficiency of SAMU's operations (planning, appraising and
supervising subprojects) by establishing measurable tests and preparing a
future  larger  investment program.   Part of this proposed institutional
strengthening will be through the implementation of an on-lending mechanism
to 15 selected municipalities for specific municipal infrastructure-
services subprojects.
2.04       Subloans will be limited to those projects normally implemented
by municipalities:
(a)   markets, transport terminals, and a slaughterhouse;
(b)   storm drainage; and
(c)   street paving and improvements.
Municipal Management Component
2.05        The establishment of an institutional framework for the manage-
ment of municipal development is a key objective of the project.  Consider-
able work remains to be done in order to improve the quality and efficiency
of the JRM and SAMU operations. This work will be structured in four areas
of analysis and reform:  (i) legislation and policies related to municipal
development; (ii) institutional reinforcement and reorganization; (iii)
municipal   finances;   and  (iv)  monitoring  and  testing  institutional
capacity. The following will be provided:
(a)   Technical assistance and training for JRM to strengthen the basis
for sound financial management in areas such as debt collection,
financial planning and control, cadastral and valorization im-
provements, efficient budgeting and reporting, and designing and
operating improved accounting and internal audit systems, as well
as external auditing.   Assistance in management planning, staff
training, and operations monitoring and evaluation will also be
provided.



-10-
(b)   Technical assistance, vehicles, and training for SAMU to develop
recommendations for establishing municipal development policies
and reforms to strengthen the financial base of municipalities;
urban and spatial development strategies; and developing munic-
ipal management training programs to be offered by SAMU.   Also
included will be funds for SAMU to train staff, improve appraisal
and supervision procedures and management systems, monitor on-
going and prepare  future projects.   Vehicles,  equipment,  and
special consultant services will be provided to SAMU to strength-
en its implementation capacity.
B. Project Costs
2.06      Total project costs are estimated to be C$ 228.0 million (US$22.8
million equivalent) excluding taxes and duties, of which US$16.0 million
(70%) will be lent by the Bank.  A summary breakdown of project costs is
given in Table II.1 and the detailed breakdown in Annex 1. The cost esti-
mates for physical works for Managua Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading are
based on final engineering designs. February 1981 unit prices were used to
estimate construction materials and labor and reflect JRM bi-weekly con-
struction cost control data sheets of similar on-going construction.  Unit
costs were verified with those of the Ministry of Construction.   Labor
costs include the national social insurance contribution; field administra-
tion is calculated at 10%; professional services at 8%; and administrative
overhead at 1.5% of direct cost.   About 330 staff-months of consulting
services will be provided for the project.   The average consultant-month
for technical assistance services is estimated to be about US$8,000 for
foreign personnel (which would be open to international recruitment),
including salary, fees, overheads, international travel, housing, and
subsistence, and would be about US$2,000 for Nicaraguan consultants (see
Annex 1). JRM and SAMU are to provide office space and support services.
2.07        For the Pilot Municipal Infrastructure Improvements component,
the cost estimates for buildings were calculated from final engineering of
prototype designs. Unit prices were based on actual costs verified in the
field (including those of the ongoing implementation of the six-city Urban
Reconstruction Project).   The allocation for professional services varies
with the number of building repeats from 6.2 to 7%. For streets, bridges,
and storm drainage, cost estimates were based on bills of quantity and unit
prices from the current cost of similar work in the Urban Reconstruction
Project and verified with the Ministry of Construction.   For both compo-
nents,  physical contingencies were estimated at 5% because of the high
quality and degree of detailed engineering and the similarity to on-going
construction.   The base costs are expressed in prices of February 1981.
Price contingencies for local costs are calculated on the basis of the
following percentages:  15% for 1981, 15% for 1982 and 10% for 1983.  Price
contingencies for foreign costs were estimated at: 10% for 1981, 9% for
1982 and 8% for 1983.  Overall annual inflation rates are estimated to be
higher. Recent experience indicates, however, that prices for construction
works identical to the ones proposed under the project tend to rise at
several  percentage  points  below  overall  inflation  rates.   The foreign
exchange component is estimated at 61% (see Table IT-1). The exchange rate
is assumed to remain constant at its current level of US$1 = C$ 10.



Table II-1:  Summary of Project Cost
(February 1981 Prices)
C/Million                              US$Mi1lion
LOCAL       FOREIGN     TOTAL          LOCAL         FOREIGN      TOTAL
A. Managua Municipal Infrastructure
Neighborhood Improvements             46.9         70.4       117.3             4.7          7.0       11.7
Major Storm Drainage                   9.0        13.5         22.5             0.9          1.4        2.3
Subtotal, A                         55.9        83.9        139.8             5.6          8.4       14.o
B. Pilot Municipal Infrastructure
Improvements
Municipal Buildings                    3.1          7.7       1l.8              0.3          0.8        1.1
Infrastructure                         4.5         6.8         11.3             0.4          0.7        1.1
Subtotal, B                          7.6        14.5         22.1             0.7         1.5         2.2
C. Municipal Management
Assistance for JRM                     0.9          1.4         2.3             0.1          0.1        0.2
Assistance for SAMU                    1.9          3.5         5.4             0.2          o.4        o.6
Subtotal, C                          2.8          4.9         7.7             0.3          0.5        o.8
D. Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                 3.3          5.2         8.5             0.3          0.5        o.8
Price Contingencies                   19,5         30.4        49.9             2.0          3.0        5.0
Subtotal, D                         22,8         35.6        58.4             2.3          3.5        5.8
Total Project Cost                  89.1       138.9        228.0             8.9        13.9        22.8



-12-
C. Financing
2.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$16.0 million will finance the entire
foreign  exchange  cost,  estimated  at  about  61%  of  total  project  cost
(US$13.9 million).  It is also proposed that about US$2.1 million of local
costs be financed from the Bank loan.  The JRM confirmed that it will pro-
vide its own counterpart funds (US$5.7 million), and other municipalities
will provide US$0.3 million (para 6.01 (d) (i)), while the participation of
the Government in the entire project will be limited to about US$0.8
million. The loan will be made to the Government of Nicaragua and will
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the prevailing
interest rate.   Government will pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan in
local currency to:  (a) JRM at 15% for 20 years, including a grace period
of 3 years; (b) SAMU at the interest rate of the loan for 20 years, includ-
ing a grace period of 3 years.  The Government's contribution to SAMU will
be without a financial charge.  Government will pass on counterpart funds
for technical assistance to both agencies as grants. SAMU will on-lend to
participating municipalities at a rate of 15% during the first year of the
program, when all subloans are expected to be approved and funds committ-
ed.8 Should there be slippages, the on-lending rate will be subject to
annual review by the Government and the Bank in light of changing economic
conditions (para 6.01 (d) (iv)).  The loan terms will depend on the nature
of the subproject, the expected life of the structures being financed and
the projected capacity of the municipality to repay.  They are not expect-
ed, however, to exceed 10 years.    Grace periods will range from 6 months
to 3 years.  The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.  The 15%
on-lending rate compares with a projected rate of inflation of about 25%
for 1981 which is expected to decline to about 20% in 1982 and to about 15%
in 1983.   Inflation is expected to stabilize at rates considerably below
15% for the remainder of the life of the project, resulting in a positive
interest rate for that period.  Although during the commitment period, the
SAMU on-lending rate is likely to be negative, it does represent signifi-
cant progress from the historical rates of between 6% and 8%.
2.09       Table II-2 summarizes sources and uses of funds for the project;
a detailed financing plan for the project is shown in Annex 2.
Table II-2: Summary Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government
of
Uses of Funds               Bank    JRM    Municipalities  Nicaragua  Total
JRM                         13.2    5.6           -               -       18.8
SAMU                         2.1     -          0.2              0.7      3.0
Municipal Management         0.7    0.1         0.1              0.1       1.0
TOTAL                   16.0    5.7         0.3             0.8      22.8
/8  SAMU  will  pass  on  1%  to  each  of  the  financial  intermediaries  to
reimburse them for their administrative expenses (see para 3.05); the
remaining differential will cover SAMU's own administrative expenses.



-13-
D. Detailed Project Description
Managua Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading Component--JRM
2.10       Two subcomponents will be financed: (a) the upgrading of munic-
ipal infrastructure in 26 low-income neighborhoods and (b) a city-wide pro-
gram of storm drainage improvements.   The Neighborhood Upgrading Program
will support JRM's ongoing efforts to provide basic municipal infra-
structure and transport services. The program responds to a policy adopted
by MINVAH and JRM over the past year to redensify the present dispersed
pattern of the city (created by earthquake reconstruction) through the
upgrading of basic infrastructure and municipal services deficiencies
within a defined limit and to be complementary to ongoing municipal invest-
ments (see para. 1.10 and map IBRD 15697).  Large areas of the city within
this expansion limit correspond to the lower income residential neighbor-
hoods that have not been provided with municipal infrastructure or ade-
quately serviced.   These gaps cause a discontinuity of the city's circu-
lation network, aggravate storm flooding throughout the city and affect the
delivery of maintenance services.   The proposed program will be a major
contribution in implementing the plan to orient municipal investments to-
ward improving the efficiency of the city's infrastructure networks and re-
duce maintenance costs as well as to ultimately bring improved living
conditions to 52 neighborhoods identified by JRM in its five-year plan.
That plan will not only directly benefit about 65% of the urban population
representing about 45% of the city's poor, but will also have a major
impact on the economic efficiency of the entire city.  JRM selected the 26
priority low-income neighborhoods (with a total population of about
220,000) for this stage of the project. While all of these have had tenure
status resolved and basic water needs provided, they have neither paved
streets nor storm drainage, and are subject to continual flooding.  Health
problems  are  created  by  stagnant  surface  water.   Inaccessible  streets
during the rainy season make refuse collection impossible. Electricity and
public street lighting is nonexistent or iniadequate and represent a
considerable safety problem.   The neighborhoods vary in size from 8 ha.
with 1,000 persons to 128.5 ha. with over 39,000 persons; the densities
vary from 80 to 303 persons per hectare.   The proposed improvements  in
basic infrastructure are based on least-cost design standards and are
limited  to  items  that  will  eliminate  functional  constraints.    The
improvements will facilitate densification of up to 300 persons per hectare
by developing vacant building plots.  This JRM program is complementary to
a program presently being developed by MINVAH to deal with the problems of
other neighborhoods (barrios intervenidos) developed by speculators without
basic infrastructure. These are now to be provided with water and sewerage
by MINVAH and INAA9 using funds collected by residents' monthly payments
to MINVAH. MINVAH is preparing a project to be submitted for Bank consid-
eration in the future to deal with this upgrading on a large scale.  Once
those neighborhoods are provided with water and sewerage, JRM will provide
upgrading similar to that included  in this  project.   The program will
include the following:
/9 "Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados".



-14-
(a)   Local storm drainage along 30 km of local streets, which have
been designed to eliminate annual flooding and to permit uninter-
rupted bus service through the neighborhoods. Drop inlets, catch
basin and erosion control devices will be provided with connec-
tions to the major drainage channels of the city.  A tolerable
amount of temporary flooding (maximum one hour) of local streets
in the lower sections of the city will be permitted on the basis
of a probability of flooding once every 15 years, but the system
is designed to permit continuous bus service.   Drop inlets and
catch basins will be provided with connections to the city's
major storm drainage system.
(b)   Street paving,  curbs,  and gutters.   About 44 km of secondary
streets that form part of the network served by public trans-
portation will be paved to provide continuity of circulation
throughout the city and provide access to refuse collection serv-
ices.    The  paving will  consist  of pre-cast  "adoquin"  blocks
that are easily laid by hand.  Tertiary streets will be surfaced
with select material and compacted into water-bound macadam, con-
tained within a concrete curb and gutter so as to control erosion
and reduce maintenance costs.
(c)   Walkways and public lighting.   Walkways, which are an integral
part of the local storm drainage system, will be provided within
the streets rights-of-way of major streets throughout each neigh-
borhood for safe and convenient pedestrian circulation. Since it
is the predominant means of circulation, a minimum level of
public lighting--500 light standards--will run parallel to the
walkways (at 80 m spacings).  The walkways are to be located so
as to control storm run-off and check erosion that would block
the storm drainage network.
Major Storm Drainage Improvements Program
2.11       Five major natural storm drainage channels that are not adequate
to contain and divert run-off, presently cause flooding of large parts of
the  city.    These  will  be  enlarged  and  upgraded  to  eliminate  major
flooding.  The five priority drainage channels were selected on the basis
of a 1975 study by DEPLAN (Mexican consultants) which was revised in 1977
to conform to the 15-year storm data base.lO   Because the city is on a
sloping plain that drains toward Lake Managua, the natural topography has
created 8 drainage areas (and flood plains) 15 to 20 km long by 2 to 3 km
wide (see map, IBRD 15697).   During normal rainfall, the natural gullies
become rivers and overflow their banks.   The proposed  flood protection
works should eliminate the annual flooding, which destroys housing, vegeta-
tion and obstructs major traffic arteries and results in the costly clean-
up of debris (see map, IBRD 15697).  With the protection in place, resi-
dents of the affected areas would be able to make permanent house improve-
ments and upgrade the usable flood plain.
/10 This is an appropriate minimum standard that will be surpassed when
diversion interceptor channels are constructed above the city (see
Annex 5).



-15-
2.12      The component consists of 7.1 km of natural drainage gullies that
will be enlarged and reshaped as open channels and lined with dressed ma-
sonry and reinforced concrete beams and base.   Box culverts and bridges
will be provided for vehicular and pedestrian crossings; and along one
section, 2.7 km of large diameter reinforced concrete culverts and pipes
will be provided.  The hydraulic gradient will be improved by constructing
25 velocity check dams with retention basins, 19 energy dissipators and
soil erosion control devices, including desiltation chambers.
Pilot Municipal Development Component--SAMU
2.13         The Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales  (SAMU) has selected a
priority list of 15 of the 136 municipalities throughout the country to be
eligible to participate in the pilot municipal infrastructure and
improvements program. The selection has been made on the basis of criteria
developed  jointly  with  MINVAH.    This  pilot  program  is  designed  to
strengthen the institutional capacity of SAMU and participating municipali-
ties as well as generating a financial base for future municipal develop-
ment, through the establishment of a municipal development fund at the
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED) to be operated on behalf of SAMU.  For
the immediate programs, SAMU will make loans to participating municipali-
ties upon joint review and approval with the FED (see para. 3.05). Through
this project, SAMU will assist municipalities by (a) providing programs to
help them in assessing needs, developing better administrative procedures
and improving financial management; and (b) helping define a short range
(4-5 years) plan for each municipality to meet their most urgent infra-
structure, services, or management needs.   The primary objective of this
component is to develop the capacity of SAMU to carry out such programs by
implementing this first small, pilot lending operation for 15 municipali-
ties.
2.14       SAMU and the Bank reviewed and appraised all the subprojects to
be financed in the pilot program for each of the 15 participating munici-
palities (see Annex 1).    For this round of lending,  15 municipalities
clustered in four subregional/administrative zones (see map, IBRD 15696)
have been identified, and financial analysis for all 15 municipalities has
been completed.   Three of these zones are the cities that have developed
subregional technical teams in the course of implementing the Urban Recon-
struction Project.   The  fourth will operate from SAMU headquarters  in
Managua. The participating municipalities have been selected because they:
(a) are in the country's most productive regions; (b) have strong financial
bases; and (c) exhibit highest present growth rates and have demonstrated
that this growth is likely to continue in the future. Both the municipali-
ties and subprojects have been selected to provide SAMU with a sound basis
for expanding its planning and implementation capacity in the near future.
All subloans and costs are detailed in Annex 1 and summarized in Table
II-3.



-16-
Municipal Management Component
2.15        For the economies and supportive infrastructure of Nicaragua's
urban centers to be strengthened, their local governments will have to
respond more effectively in providing services and promoting development.
The new government has taken important steps in that direction: in general,
local governments have been given more autonomy and their financial needs
are being addressed by recent measures to reformulate municipal taxes and
fees (see para. 1.09).   SAMU was created to regulate and assist in the
process. However, much needs to be done to overcome past inequities and
inefficiencies.   Most significant among immediate concerns are the weak,
inflexible revenue bases and the heavy dependency on Central Government
grants. While the local governing boards are dynamic and reform oriented,
they lack the experience and administrative framework to bring about major
improvements in the delivery of infrastructure.
2.16        The Municipal Management Component will address this constraint
by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the Municipal Government
of Managua (JRM) and the National Agency for Municipal Development (SAMU).
JRM and SAMU agree on the need to strengthen municipal performance. Whilst
Managua has different constraints than other municipalities, all could ben-
efit from improvements in three broad areas: (a) the local administrative
framework will be supported to allow for better planning, budgeting, and
financial monitoring; (b) the municipalities' financial bases will be
strengthened by increasing locally generated revenues, especially through
an effective mechanism to apportion property taxes; and (c) municipal re-
sources (physical plant and staff) will be strengthened and local manage-
ment practices, especially financial planning and control, will be improv-
ed. The management assistance program will focus on these improvements by
providing about 330 person-months of local and foreign technical assis-
tance, vehicles, and equipment (see Guidelines in Annex 8; and Annex 1) as
follows.



Table 11-3:  Municipal Infrastructure Improvements Gomponent
Summary of Participating Municipalities, Subloans and Cost Estimates a/
(CS million)
S U B P R O J E C T S
Urban               Percentage
population       Annuial Growth Rate   Intermunlicipal     f4unicipal           Bus      Municipal      StreetStr
(19-8Q Eqtimate)          (1971/78)       Slaughterhouse        Markets b1      Station      Building     Improvements  Drainage       Bridges       Total
Chinandega Subregion                                                                                                                                                       [8,3301
1.  Chinandega c/          48,200                5.6                                  2,400                                                                                 2,400
2. Chichigalna             20,500                3.8                                    200                                       200            200                          600
3.  Corinto                18,000               2.6                                                                               900            500                        1,400
4.  El Viejo               14,100               6.0                                  2,000                                      1,600                         330           3,930
Leon Subregion
[6,5001
l.  Leon c/                88,000               5.7                                  2,400                                      2,300                                       4,700
2.  Paz Centro              9,900               5.0                                    400                                                                                    400
3.  Nagarote               10,500               4.6                                                                             1,400                                       1,400
Managua Subregion                                                                                                                                                          15,4001
1.  TivitaDa               Z1,900               9.0                                                    300                        700 100                                   1,100
2. Mateare                  2,000                5.5                                                              300           1,200                                       1,500
3.  Juigalpa               19,500               5.9                                    700                                      1,000                                       1,700
4.  El Rama                 3,300               12.0                                                   500                        600                                       1,100
Masaya Subregion                                                                                                                                                           19,8001
1.  masava c/              52,300               6.0                                                    700                      1,600                       1,000           3,300
2.  Diriamba               18,500               8.0              1,800               2,000             500                                                                  4,300
3.  Nandaime                9,200               6.1                                    300             200                        900            300                        1,700
4.  Nindiri                 4,000                8.3                                                                              500                                         500
TOTAL        339,900                                 1,800             10,400           2,200        300          12,900          1,100         1,330         30,030
TOTAL      US$ 3,003
a! February 1981 costa plu-' -ritnvencies.
bW  Includes repairs.
c/ Cities from which, technical units would supervise implementation; supervision for the Managua subregion would be done from
SAMU hieadquarters.



-18-
2.17      Assistance to JRM
(a)   about  74  person-months  of  consultants  and  specialists  to
strengthen its financial management will be provided in the areas
of accounting, billing, collections, financial planning and con-
trol, cadastral and betterment studies, improvements in budgeting
and financial reporting, restructuring of the internal audit
system, and review of the role of departmental forces in terms of
future operation; and
(b)   training for JRM staff in the specialized areas described above
and in municipal engineering will also be provided.
2.18      Assistance to SAMU.  Because SAMU is a new and relatively inexpe-
rienced institution, its participation in administering a pilot program of
municipal infrastructure development is in itself a way of preparing and
building an efficient institution that could consolidate municipal develop-
ment in the future. Thus, the project will provide a broad range of assis-
tance to SAMU. First, a detailed examination of the tasks that SAMU should
perform relative to its role of coordinating municipal development will
lead to a proposal for future reorganization of the institution. This will
include a review of, and proposals for, more streamlined operating proce-
dures and appropriate staffing. The review will cover three major areas of
SAMU's operations: (a) policy and planning--including allocative investment
strategy, and research; (b) programming, subproject appraisal--both tech-
nical and financial; and (c) subproject supervision, monitoring, and the
delivery of assistance to participating municipalities.   A second area of
assistance will be in the review and proposals leading to improving the
financial position of municipalities and the legislative review of munici-
pal operations.   The third field of assistance will be primarily through
the provision of physical plant and training to carry out the pilot program
and then prepare future lending operations.  A total of 196 person-months
of local and foreign specialized assistance and training has been planned
for SAMU. Vehicles and equipment will also be provided (see Annex 1).
2.19      Because developing SAMU's institutional capacity is the main ob-
jective of the Municipal Development Component of the project, a specific
assistance plan detailing the goals necessary to bring about the institu-
tional improvements was outlined with SAMU at appraisal (see Annex 8).
SAMU has further refined the plan and has started reorganizing and
increasing staff along those lines; the plan's implementation process was
reviewed and agreed to with SAMU during negotiations (paras. 3.04 and 6.01
(d)(ii)).   The plan should enable SAMU and Bank staff to monitor changes
and evaluate its readiness for future operations.
2.20        The multisectoral (integrated) nature of municipal development
requires coordination and cooperation among the municipalities and Govern-
ment's autonomous agencies responsible for the planning and provision of
infrastructure, support services, and industrial promotion. To assist SAMU
in its key coordinating role, a coordinating committee chaired by SAMU's
Vice Minister, and consisting of representatives of the relevant agencies
will meet on a regular basis to monitor implementation progress.  Part of
the proposed technical assistance will be to define and advise on effective



-19-
mechanisms for this coordination to take place.  Preliminary terms of ref-
erence (in Annex 8) for this and other aspects of the Municipal Management
Component were drafted, discussed, and agreed to during the appraisal
mission and will form the basis for the assistance program.  These are now
being finalized with the help of experts from FINAPRI (Government's pre-
investment agency responsible for technical assistance) now assisting SAMU
(para. 3.04) and the search for consultants has started.
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Reconstruction Board of Managua--JRM
3.01        The Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua (JRM--the Reconstruction
Board of Managua) will be the main executing agency for the Managua com-
ponent.11 In May 198012 JRM was officially created (Decree No. 400) by
transforming the Distrito Nacional (the district which was administered as
the nation's capital, and was presided over by a cabinet minister) to an
autonomous municipality, governed by a five-member board, the president of
which is a cabinet minister.  While its organizational structure (Chart 1
in Annex 3) was changed somewhat, it retained most of the previous staff.
JRM has built on the Distrito's long-established implementation capacity
and has, in the past 12 months, become a powerful and dynamic institution.
JRM has instituted significant policy and operational changes, but recogni-
zes that while its policy directions are clear, it needs to increase effi-
ciency and is actively adjusting to meet those objectives.   In September
1981, a decree was passed which would integrate the budget of JRM into the
national budget as of January 1, 1982.  While preserving JRM's functional
autonomy, the measure is intended to streamline and reduce the costs of
some administrative functions, to allow for closer budgetary monitoring of
JRM's operations, and to transfer any net surplus of those operations to a
municipal development fund to be administered by SAMU. The main practical
effects of the decree will be as follows:
(a)   JRM's principal source of revenue, the sales tax, will be col-
lected by the Ministry of Finance and maintained in a separate
account.
(b)   JRM's permanent staff will be paid through the Ministry of Fi-
nance's computerized system as a charge against JRM's budget.
(c)   Certain purchases,  for which the Central Government is able to
obtain discounts through bulk buying agreements, will be made for
JRM through the Central Government.
(d)   JRM will prepare its budget and submit it to the Ministry of
Finance for approval.   Funds will then be made available from
JRM's revenues to various revolving funds at the disposal of JRM.
(e)   Funds remaining in JRM's special revenue account at the end of
the year, after allowing for all outstanding obligations, will be
transferred to the Municipal Development Fund.
/11 JRM's policies and programs are described in para 4.01 and its
financial policies and position are reviewed in paras 4.02 and
4.05.
/12 The functional change from Distrito to Junta actually took place in
August 1979.



-20-
3.02       JRM has a large and well qualified staff, organized in five ex-
ecutive departments, the principal ones being:  Municipal Operations (man-
agement, policy and design); Urban Services (maintenance and provision of
services); and Legal/Financial (see Annex 3, Chart 1).  Design and imple-
mentation will be under the responsibility of the Municipal Operations
Department (OM) through the Planning and Implementation Division, which has
a staff of 36 experienced professionals with an additional 40 junior engi-
neers. During 1980, the Division demonstrated its ability to design and
execute infrastructure works valued at C$106,000,000.  The proposed Bank
project has been dimensioned to be well within the capacity of the present
organization.   JRM has an extensive fleet of vehicles  and construction
equipment--in fact, JRM is considered to be Nicaragua's largest and best
equipped implementation force, and has, on occasion assisted the Ministry
of Construction (Public Works).  The proposed project would not tax JRM's
in-house capacity, and the proposed annual civil works expenditures of C$20
million (1981), C$74 million (1982), and C$56 million (1983) are about half
of the estimated value of work carried out in 1980.  Financial supervision
and reporting (see paras. 3.17-3.19) will be carried out by the Financial
Department.   All of the above units are well staffed and experienced in
carrying out similar on-going operations.   Work will be implemented by
departmental forces, as has been standard practice for JRM (see para.
3.10).   Similarly,  procurement,  accounting,  and control will be managed
through JRM's existing structure.  However, a project manager and support
staff will be assigned to coordinate the implementation of the project.
JRM will enter into a subsidiary contract with the Government satisfactory
to the Bank.
B. The Agency for Municipal Affairs (SAMU)
3.03      In its plan for reconstruction, the present Government has stated
its policy to influence urban growth trends by implementing a policy of
rational and equitable allocation of resources which would be part of a
comprehensive  national  development  plan.    The Government  has  directed
efforts in all sectors to this approach, and the municipal system is con-
sidered an important part of this strategy.  In order to both reinforce the
capacity of local governments and coordinate the reconstruction and devel-
opment process, Government created the Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales
(SAMU) in December 1979 as a secretariat of Central Government with the
special role of coordinating the different economic and administrative pro-
grams and functions of the new Municipal Reconstruction Boards.   SAMU's
role is not only to assist activating the local boards but also to assist
in planning and financing for their longer range needs.   In early 1980,
SAMU used its limited funds (transferred from Central Government) on
highest priority reconstruction programs.  By late 1980, SAMU had realized
that a coherent and comprehensive development plan needed to be instituted
and began an analysis of the country's 136 urban centers under its juris-
diction. In the process SAMU has begun to consolidate its inter-agency co-
ordinating function--but with marginal success.   This task, in itself, is
extremely difficult in a context where ministries, autonomous public agen-
cies, and private institutions have traditionally operated independently
and where municipal governments were always too weak to bring about co-
hesive development  actions.   SAMU has been overwhelmed by requests  for
assistance in municipal development and realizes its shortfall of capacity



-21-
to effectively deal with them.   SAMU has received assistance from IDB-
financed specialists and an ongoing AID-financed program to study municipal
development policy being carried out jointly by SAMU, INCAE (the Central
American Institute of Business Administration), and the University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley.   This program is complementary to the assistance en-
visioned  in  the  Municipal  Management  Component,  and  together  aim  to
increase SAMU's capacity.
3.04       SAMU's executive director is a cabinet member of Central Govern-
ment. SAMU has a staff of 52 professionals, but is in the process of re-
organization and increasing its staff.   SAMU has four main departments:
(a) Programming, Planning and Design;  (b) Projects  (which is responsible
for subproject evaluation and supervision); (c) Municipal Coordination
(which identifies and monitors subprojects and provides technical assist-
ance and training programs to municipalities); and (d) Administration.
There are presently 14 professionals in the Projects Department, but SAMU
proposes to increase that staff to 20 (especially for supervision and
financial operations), and that of other departments as necessary (see
Annex 3, Chart 2).   The technical assistance to municipalities consists
mainly in identifying and planning projects, and management training in
areas such as accounting procedures, etc.  The appraisal mission discussed
with SAMU and Central Government (see paras. 2.19 and 2.20) additional
organizational and staffing requirements for increasing the institution's
capacity and implementing the component.   Assurances were given that all
counterpart resources would be made available to do so and agreement was
reached on SAMU's organizational structure (para. 6.01(d)(ii)).   A major
part of the reorganization will come about through the assistance to be
provided in the Municipal Management Component of the proposed project.
These agreements were reaffirmed during negotiations.
3.05       SAMU will have the responsibility for implementing the secondary
cities component.   This includes selection of priority municipalities in
accordance with national regional development strategy, assistance to muni-
cipalities in organizing themselves for the preparation and execution of
subprojects, and appraisal and supervision of subprojects.  For the selec-
tion of priority municipalities, a set of criteria has been developed re-
flecting the growth potential of municipalities and the need to efficiently
serve existing industrial and other types of economic activity.   These
criteria were utilized for the selection of the cities included in this
project and are to be used in all of SAMU's parallel and future operations
(see Annex 4). During appraisal, Bank staff assisted in the SAMU appraisal
of the subprojects to be financed with the proposed loan.  These subproj-
ects have  been shown to be feasible  (para. 2.14).   A format has been
developed for the documentation of this analysis and for its presentation
to the SAMU Credit Committee for final approval. The committee members are
the Vice-Minister and the Department Directors of SAMU and a representative
of the Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED) which will handle the financial
aspects of the program for SAMU (para. 2.13). The participation of the FED
representative is in line with the Government's policy of involving the
financial system in all investment decisions. The financial system will be
further involved through the participation of the country's financial
intermediaries, which have branches in every municipality, as the financial



-22-
agents of SAMU.13 Once a subproject has been approved by SAMU, one of the
intermediaries will be authorized to disburse against statements of expend-
itures certified by SAMU staff and will also be in charge of loan repay-
ments. The FED and the participating intermediaries will receive 1% each
from SAMU to cover their expenses as financial agents for the component.
SAMU' and FED will enter into a subsidiary contract with the Government
defining the terms at which the funds will be passed on and the responsibi-
lities of the various participating agencies, subject to Bank approval.
During negotiations, draft agreements, lending policies and manuals were
agreed to.  The SAMU subloans are to be approved and committed not later
than December 31, 1982.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.06        The project will be implemented over a three-year period from
mid-1981 to mid-1982.14 Part of the storm drainage works carried out after
March 1, 1981, are proposed for retroactive financing (see para. 3.16).
Annex 3, Charts 3 and 4 show the implementation schedule for various pro-
ject components.
3.07       For the Managua Upgrading Component, implementarion priority was
given to flood protection works (as shown in the schedule of implementa-
tion, Annex 3, Chart 3).  In January 1981, JRM started emergency work on
two major storm drainage canals that serve the eastern and western edges of
the city.  However, a large velocity check dam which was programmed could
not be started because of heavy rains.  All three are proposed for retro-
active financing and all of the work, except the check dam, were completed
on schedule. Other localized storm drainage works that can be built during
the rains are being carried out as a substitute for the dam. The remaining
drainage works to commence in January 1982 (after the rains) are scheduled
for compLetion by mid-1982.
3.08         For improvements to the 26 neighborhoods, JRM plans to have
started work in 10 neighborhoods by April of 1982. During 1982, work on 12
neighborhoods should be well underway, with work on another 4 neighborhoods
scheduled to start in January of 1983.
3.09        The implementation of the 34 subprojects in 15 municipalities
will be phased over three years (see Annex 3, Chart 4). Six municipalities
plan to start implementation of subprojects by mid-1982, and work in
another  five  should  start  shortly  thereafter.   The  first works  to be
carried out are in three of the six cities of the Urban Reconstruction Pro-
ject, where the technical units are already functioning. About half of the
work in all municipalities is expected to be implemented during CY1982.
Most of the remaining work is expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
D. Procurement
3.10      For the Managua Upgrading Component, JRM will carry out the works
financed under the proposed loan through the use of its own departmental
forces (force account). The proposed works are similar to those that these
forces have been executing efficiently since late 1979.   In fact, in the
case of major storm drainage improvements,  the loan will finance the con-
tinuation of an ongoing program which the Bank has carefully reviewed in
the  field.    Similarly,  the  proposed  neighborhood  improvements  will  be
/13 In practice, the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BND) and the Banco
Inmobiliario (BI) are expected to do most of the on-lending.
/14 Including the period eligible for retroactive financing.



-23-
carried out using the same methods (low/intermediate technology), materials
and labor used successfully in the reconstruction effort and JRM's ongoing
neighborhood program.15  As the initial phase of reconstruction is coming
to an end, there will be an excess capacity of equipment and manpower which
will be utilized in the proposed works.  Whilst there is probably suffi-
cient excess capacity of equipment, in the case of labor, some new hiring
will be needed for the duration of the new project.  At the conclusion of
the project, part of JRM's labor force increase will be transferred to do
badly needed street maintenance and refuse collection services, another
part will continue with future stages of upgrading, and the rest is expect-
ed to be released.16   The loan will include technical assistance to JRM
for improved accounting, costing, and monitoring, which is expected to in-
crease the efficiency of carrying out works through force account.
3.11         The construction industry suffered serious damage during the
civil war and has been recovering only slowly because the largest contrac-
tors  left  the  country.   Those  construction  firms  that  did manage  to
reactivate have been working at close to capacity levels and are expected
to continue to be fully occupied over the next two to three years. In this
respect, the Ministry of Construction (MINCON) has taken action so that for
the public sector's 1981 construction program of 283 projects, 81 (29%)
will be let out to private contractors for bidding while 26 (9%) have been
allocated to JRM (mainly the works under the proposed Bank project).
MINCON intends to increase the participation of private contracting in the
future to over 60% of the Government's construction program.   However,
during the first half of the project's implementation, it appears unlikely
that contracting firms will be in a position to participate on a sufficient
scale to warrant the risk and time required for local competitive bidding.
Furthermore, of the 27 contractors registered with the National Construc-
tion Chamber, only 15 have expressed a willingness to prepare bids for
works valued at more than US$100,000; and then only on a "cost-plus"
basis.17  Also,  the financial position of most contractors  is such that
commercial bank guarantees for such works are virtually impossible to ob-
tain. Nevertheless, after a period of consolidation, it may be possible to
mobilize other firms in response to the prospect of increased construction
activity generated by the project, if the time and cost of this mobiliza-
tion would not create unwarranted risks for the project.  With a view to
having the project assist in its reactivation, the possibility of the
private construction industry participation in implementing part of the
upgrading component was discussed during negotiations; and JRM agreed to
present a plan for doing so by June 30, 1982 (para. 6.01(c)(ii)).
/15 JRM maintains daily field records (time and cost sheets) on each work
gang, and bi-weekly cost reports are prepared for each construction
job.   These  actual  costs were used  in estimating  the components'
costs.
/16 The management assistance component will also make recommendations as
to the future of JRM's department forces.
/17 Except for one neighborhood, all improvements are estimated in excesxs
of US$100,000 with the average US$596,000.



-24-
3.12      Procurement of construction materials, such as cement, steel, re-
inforced concrete, pipe, pre-cast paving blocks, and box culverts, will be
by local competitive bidding under procedures accepta Ae to the Bank, which
includes notification to potential foreign suppliers.
3.13      SAMU will supervise the tendering of the 14 buildings (markets, a
slaughterhouse, bus stations, and municipal office building) totalling
US$1.47 million (49% of this component) using local competitive bidding,
which is appropriate in view of the small size of the works involved.  A
minimum of three prequalified local contractors will be invited to bid for
each contract.  Where there are two or more buildings proposed per munici-
pality, bid packages will be prepared.  Experience has been that contrac-
tors are most likely to bid on the construction of buildings.   To the
extent possible, the street, storm drainage, and bridge work will be exam-
ined for appropriate competitive bidding on a case-by-case basis depending
on the availability of local contractors. In cases where contractors would
not bid, the works will be carried out using the municipalities' depart-
mental forces. All municipalities have installed capacity to do so.
E. Disbursement
3.14       The implementation plan for the JRM component (see paras. 3.07
and 3.08 and Chart 3, Annex 3) calls for implementing the upgrading work in
6 to 10 neighborhoods simultaneously (in addition to the storm drainage
works) each quarter.   This represents an average quarterly expenditure of
almost US$1.8 million.   In order for JRM to keep pace with the resulting
rapid (and prolonged) succession of expenditures, it is proposed that a
Working Fund be established.  This Fund would avoid unnecessary funds flow
restraints that could occur should there be prolonged processing time for
expenditure reimbursements.   The Working Fund will be established in the
Central Bank to reimburse JRM for the Bank's share of eligible local
expenditures for civil works under this component. An initial disbursement
of US$1.2 million equivalent, estimated as the Bank's share of 3 months'
expenditures, will be made subject to receipt of a withdrawal application
supported by documentation indicating that the Special Account for the
Working Fund had been established in the Central Bank.  The procedures for
subsequent reimbursement will be that, after payments for 100% of expend-
itures have been made, JRM will present withdrawal applications to the
Central Bank for the withdrawal of the Bank share.   After payment,  the
Central Bank will forward these applications to the Bank for review and
subsequent replenishment of the Special Account.  Details of the operation
of the Working Fund were discussed and agreed during negotiations.   The
Government also agreed to open a project account in the Central Bank for
SAMU and to deposit initially in this account the amount of US$300,000
equivalent in Cordobas and to deposit annually thereafter the counterpart
funds required.
3.15       For JRM, disbursements will be made for 70% of expenditures for
civil works and of construction material procured for the project, 100% of
/18  Estimated  amounts  to be procured  are:   cement US$2,300,000,  steel
US$167,000, and street lighting US$200,000.



-25-
foreign technical assistance and training expenditures and 64% of local ex-
penditures.   For SAMU,  disbursements will  be made  for 70%  of amounts
disbursed for subloans to participating municipalities; 100% of foreign
expenditures for equipment and vehicles or 85% of expenditures for those
locally procured; 100% of foreign technical assistance and training expend-
itures,  and  64%  of  local  expenditures.    Expenditures  for  those works
carried out by force account will be submitted against a certified state-
ment of expenditures (SOE).   The documentation for these expendituresand
for subloans made by SAMU will not be submitted to the Bank but will be
retained by JRM and by SAMU for review by Bank project supervision
missions. Disbursements for civil works carried out through contracts let
under local competitive bidding (about 25% of the loan), as well as all
others, will be fully documented.
3.16      Retroactive financing, in the amount of US$1.4 million equivalent
(9% of the proposed project), for amounts paid before the date of the Loan
Agreement, but after March 1, 1981, is proposed for the storm drainage and
neighborhood improvement works of the Managua component.   These improve-
ments are scheduled during the dry season to avoid the cost of building
diversion canals around each construction segment which would increase the
cost by 40%.  The cost of the main storm drainage work to be retroactively
financed with loan funds is estimated at slight]Ly less than US$1.1 million;
the related local neighborhood storm drainage works to be similarly financ-
ed (about US$300,000) relate to the continuation of ongoing work, will
avoid loss of momentum and start-up costs and will also optimize the effec-
tive utilization of the JRM labor force. One of the appraised subprojects-
-bridge repairs totalling US$33,000 equivalent for the municipality of El
Viejo--will be eligible for retroactive financing.  In April, a flood des-
troyed the bridge and emergency repairs as appraised were carried out using
procedures acceptable  to the Bank.   Retroactive  financing  is therefore
recommended for up to US$1.4 million equivalent. The closing date of the
project is expected to be December 31, 1984.
F.  Accounting and External Auditing
3.17      Analysis of JRM's historical financial information reveals a high
degree of past disorder in municipal administration, especially character-
ized by tax evasion. Not all liabilities have been adequately recorded and
there is even some doubt as to the obligation to repay others.  Nor have
all fixed assets been consistently controlled and recorded, and as a result
of all this, financial indices of the past are not very useful.  A major
effort has been undertaken to correct this situation.   The activities of
the JRM are now recorded and controlled on the basis of an internally con-
sistent accounting system.
3.18        JRM will maintain separate project accounts in accordance with
accounting principles consistently applied. For the Pilot Municipal Devel-
opment Component each municipality will maintain adequate project records
and accounts and make them available to SAMU which will maintain a consoli-
dated project account.
3.19        The project accounts and related financial statements will be
audited annually in accordance with generally accepted auditing principles



-26-
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Audited comparative financial statements will include a balance sheet, a
statement of income and expenses, a statement of source and application of
funds and the transactions of the project account and the special account.
The auditors' report will express an opinion as to JRM's and SAMU's finan-
cial condition, as well as the reliability of the statements of expend-
itures to support claims for disbursements and specifically whether such
claims are supported by adequate documentation and reflect properly expend-
itures eligible for financing under the loan agreement, and the adequacy of
associated internal controls.  Supplementary data on operations, financial
position and scope of work carried out by auditors and such other addi-
tional information as the Bank might from time to time reasonably request
will also be provided.  All annual audit reports and financial statements
will be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year.
G. Supervision
3.20        The Fondo Internacional de Reconstruccion--FIR,  the Government
agency responsible for managing international lending, will monitor the
project's implementation on behalf of the Government.   JRM and SAMU will
supervise each respective component for the Government as follows:
(a)   The Department of Planning and Design of JRM will supervise the
storm drainage and upgrading works.  Qualified design and field
engineers will be assigned to a supervision unit to provide
quality,  quantity,  and  cost  controls.    As  is JRM's  current
practice with ongoing works, the daily progress records of mate-
rials and labor will be checked in the field and analyzed on a
weekly  basis  for  performance;  in  addition,  monthly  progress
reports will be prepared for review by the Director of Operations
of JRM.   Quarterly progress  reports will be compiled for the
Bank.
(b)   For Municipal Infrastructure Improvements, SAMU will establish a
technical unit to provide adequate control on all works.   The
technical units established by MINVAH (as part of the Urban
Reconstruction Project) in the three subregions of Chinandega,
Leon, and Masaya will be transferred to SAMU to provide the daily
supervision of 25 subproject in 11 of the muinicipalities.   The
remaining nine items in four municipalities will be supervised by
SAMU's technical unit based in Managua.   Daily progress records
of materials and labor will be checked periodically in the field
and analyzed on a weekly basis by the (subregional) technical
units.    Quarterly  progress  reports  and  key  indicators  (the
formats of which have been discussed with each agency--see Annex
6) will be prepared by the headquarter's technical unit for
review by the onlending agency, FIR, and the Bank.
3.21        It is estimated that no more than normal supervision by Bank
staff will be required.  This has been the case with the Urban Reconstruc-
tion Project which is similar in terms of scope and content, but with a
more compressed implementation schedule.



-27-
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.22      JRM will be responsible for the routine monitoring and evaluation
of the Managua component. The project manager will prepare monthly reports
on the cost analysis and construction progress based on key indicators of
the cost breakdown for each item; a monthly analysis of expenditures for
Bank disbursements will be maintained.  Quarterly reports with an analysis
of progress to date will be prepared by the project manager with an update
of the projected targets for completion.
3.23       SAMU will be responsible for the routine monitoring and evalua-
tion through its Projects Department.  Monthly reports on the analysis of
cost and construction progress will be prepared using key indicators of
cost breakdowns for each item, and a monthly analysis of expenditures to
Bank disbursements will be maintained. Quarterly reports with an analysis
of progress to date will be prepared by the Projects Department with an
update of the projected targets for completion.
3.24         Technical assistance funds (see paras. 2.17 to 2.20) will be
available to JRM and SAMU to establish and maintain special project moni-
toring and evaluation capabilities.  In the case of JRM, the emphasis will
be on (a) force account implementation, and (b) financial operations.  For
SAMU, the focus will be on benchmarks for determining increased institu-
tional capacity in preparation for future expanded programs. The appraisal
mission discussed draft key indicators (see Annex 6) for supervision and
for monitoring project implementation. During negotiations targets, dates,
implementation schedule and the final format for presentation were agreed
to.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
4.01        JRM will recover the cost of the proposed investments through
general revenues.   This  is justified  for works which  benefit  a large
proportion of the population (such as the major storm drainage and some of
the bus routes).  Other works are more suitable for direct cost recovery.
However, although JRM is empowered to recover the cost of such works
through betterment taxes, it has not done so in the past.  In anticipation
of its new initiatives in infrastructure investments, JRM has recently
adopted a revised schedule of municipal excise taxes and fees which, along
with a more efficient collection system covering both past delinquency and
the identification of activities that should have been paying taxes but
were never assessed, has increased its revenues substantially.   (In the
following paragraphs these developments are analyzed in greater detail.)
JRM does not at present have the administrative capability to implement
betterment taxes.  Part of the municipal management technical assistance,
however, will be directed towards building up this capability for those
cases where  costs  and  benefits  can  reasonably  be  isolated  and  linked
(para. 2.16).   Terms of reference for this work were drafted during nego-
tiations.  Failure to utilize direct cost recovery for the proposed invest-
ment would not have a negative effect on the city's ability to carry out



-28-
similar works elsewhere in the city: all 56 neighborhoods in need of up-
grading have been scheduled for assistance over the medium term. The finan-
cial forecast outlined below, however, indicates that, with a reasonable
set of assumptions about the real growth of the city's financial resources
and about increasing recurrent expenditures, which are expected to accom-
pany the expansion of capital investments, a further revision of the
schedule of municipal taxes might well be necessary after project comple-
tion. For the Pilot Municipal Development Component, municipalities will
repay the SAMU loans for revenue-earning subprojects such as markets and
transport terminals through revenues derived directly from these subproj-
ects.   For other infrastructure works, which benefit a large part of the
population, subproject costs will be recovered through general municipal
revenues.
B. The Reconstruction Board of Managua - JRM
Financial Position and Policies
4.02       The major source of revenue for Managua is a tax on the sale of
goods and services (at rates between 1 and 2%).   Such a tax is levied on
the same tax base as taxes collected by the central government.   As des-
cribed in para. 3.01, the collection of both taxes will now be undertaken
by the Ministry of Finance.  Other sources of municipal revenue, including
licences and fines, taxes on public entertainment and fees for refuse
collection and other municipal services make up about 20% of the municipa-
lity's revenue.   These will continue to be collected by JRM.   The major
source of revenues, the tax on the sale of goods and services, is regulated
by a schedule (Plan de Arbitrios) which has been revised in mid-1980, some
15 years after its last revision.  During the last few months of 1980, tax
receipts from this source rose dramatically.  JRM has prepared a report on
the effectiveness and impact the new schedule, a preliminary draft of which
was reviewed during negotiations.   This report indicates that the revenue
targets in 1980 and 1981 have been realized and in some cases exceeded and
that the collection system is functioning satisfactorily. Until this year,
the internally generated revenues of JRM have been mainly used to cover
operating costs and maintenance work while, for the most part, new works
were carried out with funds transferred from the Central Government or from
other government bodies.  In contrast, financial projections indicate that
the JRM will be able to finance future capital investments and to service
the corresponding debt through its own revenues.
4.03         Table IV-1 contains a summary of JRM's actual and projected
financial data.   As noted in para. 3.17, the historial figures should be
treated with some caution because of past inadequacy of JRM accounts.   In
1978, the first year of widespread civil war, revenues did not rise as com-
pared to 1977, while in 1979 they actually fell; 1980 revenues rose by
94%. In 1981, the application of the new schedule for a full year combined
with the ongoing recovery of economic activity is expected to raise tax
revenues by 84%.   Operating expenses rose throughout the period, and JRM
registered deficits in 1979-80. In 1981 operating expenses are expected to
be 69% of JRM's revenues, which would enable the municipality to service
its debt and make a substantial contribution to investment.



Table IV-1: Selected Financial Data--JRM
(C$ million)
Actual                                    Projected
1978     1979      1980        1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
Revenues                               71.9      67.1    130.4       240.3    281.2    330.9    389.5    458.8    540.5
Operating and other Expenses
(less depreciation and amortization) 48.4        68.5    130.7       166.6    196.8    246.0    298.3    383.4    480.5
Operating Interest                       -         -       -           5.9       6.9       6.7     15.3      24.9      23.3
Repayment of borrowings                  -         -        -           3.5      9.0       9.3      12.1      19.7     18.2
Net Internal Cash Generation           23.5      (1.4)    (0.3)       64.3      68.5      68.9      63.8     29.8      18.5
Operating Expenses/Revenues             0.67      1.02      1.0         0.69     0.75      0.8       0.77      0.91      0.95
Revenue Ratio 1/                        1.49      0.98      1.0         1.23     1.19      1.17      1.16      1.07      1.04
Debt Service Coverage                    -         -        -           7.8      5.3       5.3       3.3       1.7       1.5
% Contribution to Investment             -         -        -          59.7     67.6      61.1      72.8       N.A.      N.A.
1/ Revenue divided by the sum of expenses, debt service, and the counterpart contribution required for the proposed
project.



-30-
Financing Plan
4.04        JRM has recently prepared a satisfactory investment program for
the period 1981-1985.   While the works are within JRM's  implementation
capacity, the sources of financing for this program have not yet been iden-
tified.   The JRM financial plan for 1981-84  (the project implementation
period) is shown in Table IV-2.   It indicates that almost 60% of JRM's
US$44.4 million investment program will be financed by internal cash
generation which is very satisfactory.   The proposed Bank loan would con-
tribute 29.6% and the balance will be covered by payments of other govern-
ment agencies for works, carried out on their behalf, and by a small loan
from Banco Inmobiliario (the Mortgage Bank).
Future Finances
4.05      The assumptions underlying Tables IV-1 and IV-2 are presented in
Annex 2. They indicate significant improvements in the financial position
of JRM, with sufficient revenues in the 1981-84 period to cover operating
expenses,  debt  service  and a substantial  share of investments.   These
improvements may take longer to materialize than is assumed in the projec-
tions and despite the projected rapid increase in the value of output in
Managua (both because of inflation and increases in production) tax
receipts may rise at a slower pace than was assumed.  In such a case, how-
ever, the financing plan for the proposed project would not be affected and
the most likely outcome would be to forego some of the additional, lower
priority municipal investments included in the projections.  As is evident
from Table IV-1, additional revenues may be required starting in 1985. The
municipal management assistance provided under this project should enable
JRM to identify new services of revenue and to plan its finances in an
orderly fashion.
Table IV-2: Financing Plan 1981-84--JRM
(C$ million)
Source of Funds                     C$ 
Internal generation                 334.2
- Less debt service                  68.7            -
Net internal generation             265.5            59.8
IBRD loan                           131.8            29.6
Mortgage Bank loan                    15.0            3.4
Contribution                         31.9             7.2
Total                             444.2           100.0
Use of Funds
IBRD Project a/                      205.9           46.4
Other works                          159.4           35.9
Working capital                       78.9           17.7
Total                             444.2           100.0
a/ Includes Capitalized Interest.



Table IV-3: Selected Financial Data--SAMU
(C$ million)
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
Interest Revenues                            0.1        1.5        4.1        7.1        7.5        7.9        8.6
Financial Charges                             -         0.8        1.7        3.2        4.1        4.1        4.0
Net Financial Income                         0.1        0.7        2.4        3.9        3.4        3.8        4.6
Expenses a/                                  5.1        6.4        8.0       10.0       12.5       15.6       19.5
Repayments                                   0.4        1.9        5.0        7.0        9.6       12.7       13.4
Government Allocations                      13.6        6.4        8.5       10.3       12.7       15.6       19.5
Borrowings                                  11.4       17.9       13.8       16.1        4.4         -          -
Less: SAMU Repayments                         -          -                     -                    1.2        1.2
Net Loanable Funds                          19.3       29.5       25.5       31.7       30.7       31.0       32.8
Disbursements to Municipalities             10.4       25.7       21.1       18.6       15.0       15.0       17.0
a/ Covered by budgetary allocation



-32-
4.06       To ensure that JRM will have the resources required to carry out
the project, agreement was reached that:
(a) JRM will adjust revenue sources to cover all expenses of operat-
ion and maintenance as well as debt service and to provide the
necessary counterpart funds for the project; and
(b) the Government will at all times allow JRM to establish the taxes
and fees required to comply with (a).
4.07      JRM also agreed that before undertaking any investments in excess
of US$8 million in 1981 and US$2 million in subsequent years (until project
completion) over and above those included in the proposed project, it will
demonstrate that such investments are within its implementing capacity and
that sufficient funds are available to carry them out without adversely
affecting the project.
C. The Agency for Municipal Affairs (SAMU)
4.08      Since it began its operations in December 1979, SAMU has received
from the Government's "employment creation fund" a donation of C$8.5
million of which about half was passed on to municipalities at no financial
charge and the rest at an interest rate of 6%.   SAMU has also received
C$11.4 million from the USAID reconstruction funds lent to the Government
of Nicaragua in 1980. These funds were onlent to municipalities at interest
rates of 6% and 8%.  Because SAMU has been operating as a Central Govern-
ment branch, all its operating expenses have been covered through budgetary
allocations.   The financial projections (presented in Annex 2 and summa-
rized in Table IV-3 below) have been prepared on the assumption that SAMU
will continue to provide services to municipalities transcending its finan-
cial role. The Government has agreed to continue to cover SAMU's operating
costs and provide the counterpart funds required for the project, estimated
at US$0.8 million equivalent (para. 6.01 (a) (i)).
4.09      SAMU's 1981-84 financing plan (Table  IV-4) assumes that 43.2% of
necessary funds would be provided by Government allocations and resources
generated by operations.   The balance would come from borrowings and the
remaining from payment of loans already made to municipalities.  Loans to
municipalities are assumed to be made at an interest rate of 15% per annum
with 2% going to the FED and participating intermediaries for their serv-
ices as the financial agents.



-33-
Table IV-4: Financing Plan 1981-84--SAMU
Sources                             C$ million        %
Internal Funds Generation           (16.7)         (21.0)
Municipalities Amortization          23.5           29.5
Subtotal                            6.8             8.5
Budgetary Allocations                37.9            47.7
Less Debt Service                   (10.3)          (13.0)
Net Funds and Allocations            34.4            43.2
Borrowing - IBRD                     21.0            26.5
Other                                24.0            30.3
Total Sources                      79.4           100.0
Applications
Loans to Municipalities
- Proposed Project                   28.0            35.3
Other                                45.1            56.8
Other Investments                     7.6             9.5
Working Capital                     ( 1.3)          ( 1.6)
Total                              79.4           100.0
4.10        The SAMU lending policy documents (para. 3.05) provide that it
will include in its subloan agreements covenants to ensure that each muni-
cipality operates in a financially viable manner within the limits of
stable and sustainable revenue  sources.    This  would  complement  SAMU's
statutory authority to review and control municipal investment and borrow-
ing decisions. These provisions should result in sound financial develop-
ment of the municipalities benefitting from the project, in line with the
projections summarized.
V. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
General
5.01      Given the existing structure of employment opportunities and the
constraints on business locations, Managua is likely to remain the major
center of population concentration. For this reason, the project will pur-
sue policies and physical investments designed to improve the internal
efficiency of this city while at the same time preparing the ground work
for longer term resource allocation, in keeping with national economic dev-
elopment objectives.  The economic efficiency of a city may be defined in
terms of the benefits of urban concentration (economies of scale), which
lower the average cost of producing and delivering most goods and services,
net of the losses created by inadequate urban infrastructure, especially
for transportation, congestion and pollution and other diseconomies.
Because of Managua's location, climatological conditions, and development
patterns since the earthquake (see paras. 1.06 and 1.08), relatively simple



-34-
physical improvements would lead to rapidly increasing economies. Further-
more, as the poor have had to bear a disproportionate share of the burden
of infrastructure inefficiencies, the planned investments will improve both
the efficiency and equity of Managua's development, without compromising
either of these goals.  The economic benefits of measures which will make
urbaa government more effective will also be substantial.   Given the pre-
dominance of Managua, where a large share of the economically active urban
population accounts for significant parts of GDP, industrial output and
overall commercial activity (para. 1.02), improving its efficiency will
have a positive impact on the economy at the national level. The nature of
the economic benefits from the proposed Managua investment program is ex-
plained in greater detail below, followed by a presentation of the economic
rate of return, which is estimated at about 17%.
5.02      Investments in urban areas outside Managua have also been select-
ed in order to parallel overall economic development.  They will be imple-
mented in areas where the country's most important export commodities are
produced and can thus be expected to have a positive impact on national
productivity.   Perhaps more  significant  than the actual physical works
financed through the SAMU component, is the setting-up of a mechanism for
financing economically feasible municipal investments in support of
national  spatial  priorities.    Measures  to  raise  the  efficiency  and
effectiveness of secondary city government, will also have a significant
economic impact on these cities.
A. Economic Benefits
5.03      The benefits from the proposed investments will derive first from
the prevention of loss of production, of the costs of erosion, and of the
destruction of private property and public infrastructure caused by fre-
quent serious flooding.   Secondly, the neighborhood street paving program
will help realize the benefits of an efficient link between employment and
residence and between producers and consumers of goods and services. These
benefits will include a reduction in travel time and costs, the opening up
of new employment possibilities and the opportunity to locate on cheaper
land previously unavailable because of inadequate transportation.   They
will manifest themselves in higher land values, increased profits for
transport  service operators;   lower costs for renters  elsewhere in the
city;  and lower costs to consumers of products originating in areas with
improved access. Urban transport services are already a serious constraint
to Managua's efficiency and hence to its economic development.   The city
requires extensive motorized transportation to permit the movement of
people and goods among various locations.   Indeed, for historical reasons
(see para. 1.06) the importance of motorized transport for Managua is
greater than the size of its population would suggest.   Accordingly,  the
streets which will be paved under the project already carry sufficient
volumes of traffic to justify the investment, on the basis of vehicle cost
savings on these streets along.   In addition,  there will be savings on
vehicle operating costs on existing paved arteries as congestion is
relieved.



-35-
5.04      Accessible and well serviced land for industrial, commercial, and
residential use is important not only to the efficient but also to the
equitable growth of Managua. Thus, the poor who have been pushed to loca-
tions where access is most difficult, costly and time consuming will be
among the major beneficiaries of the proposed investments.   The proposed
road improvement program, emphasizing bus penetration routes as opposed to
general purpose arterial road construction benefiting mainly private cars,
combined with a well functioning bus system (which has benefited from a
Bank-financed bus acquisition program--Reconstruction Credit 965-NI) will
have a more direct impact on the residents of the neighborhoods to be im-
proved under the project, many of whom are very poor.  It is not easy to
precisely determine the incidence of urban transport improvements.   How-
ever, given the keen competition among small car operators and the heavy
public sector involvement in bus transport, much of the benefit is likely
to go to transport users and landowners in the improved neighborhoods and
to the public sector.  Better roads for the relatively poor neighborhoods
will further benefit the poor because in Managua, as in many cities, the
accessibility of a neighborhood by road also determines to a considerable
extent whether other urban services such as solid waste collection, police
and fire protection and public utility maintenance are also made available
and whether schools and health care are within reach of the inhabitants.
5.05       Following the recent adoption of a revised schedule of municipal
taxes and fees and increased collection efficiency, the JRM, unlike most
urban authorities, is entering a period in which it will have at its dis-
posal considerable resources for investment (see para. 4.05).  No revenues
from the national budget will be used for the JRM. component, in line with
the principle that only revenues raised in Managua be used for investments
in the city thus avoiding a long-standing bias against secondary cities and
rural areas.  In general public sector resources in Nicaragua are scarce
and institutional efficiency in the planning and implementation of public
investments can therefore be a major source of economic benefit. Currently
there is considerable institutional inefficiency due to widespread fragmen-
tation of public responsibility along hierarchical and functional lines
stemming from the existence of various levels of government and autonomous
public  agencies  with  overlapping  responsibility.    The  objectives  and
priorities of these agencies rarely coincide and this has often led to long
delays and uncoordinated and contradictory actions.  Through the project,
the JRM will consolidate its position as a strong metropolitan government
taking the lead to develop and finance action plans and to enforce the
necessary interagency coordination for their efficient execution.   SAMU
will fulfill a similar role in the secondary cities.  Assistance from the
municipal management component for financial and land use planning and for
project management and control and manpower training is expected to assist
this process and thus help realize substantial longer-term benefits from
efficient city government.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Poverty Impact
5.06      The economic rate of return for the Managua component was calcu-
lated on the basis of the increase in the imputed rental value of existing
housing units that would likely result from the proposed investments.
Although rents and, to some extent, property values in Managua have been



-36-
distorted following the war and the introduction of stringent price con-
trols, relative rental values are still a useful indicator.   The housing
units to benefit from the proposed works are of various sizes and standards
and, in the case of paving, would benefit in proportion to their distance
from the paved road. Comparisons of these various types of situations with
dwellings under similar conditions elsewhere in the city indicate that, on
the average, rents in the latter areas are about 25% higher (the average
rent in the project areas is currently about US$30 per month). Since, how-
ever, the proposed project will increase significantly the supply of land
with reasonable bus access and freedom from frequent flooding, the project
economic benefits were approximated with only a 20% increase in rental
values.19 Although significant  amounts  of unskilled  labor,  not  all  of
which would likely encounter alternative employment during the same period,
would be employed in the project, no adjustments were made to the invest-
ment costs.7O A weighted average of 3% was used for maintenance costs. On
the basis of these streams and an economic life of 30 years (with no resid-
ual value taken into account), the internal economic rate of return for the
entire Managua investment program is about 17%.
5.07      Although the above estimates of the economic rate of return pro-
vide an assurance of a positive present value of the project's net bene-
fits, evidence from other similar projects, where data availability per-
mitted a more direct estimate of benefits,  indicates  that returns  from
well-desi ned investments to improve urban transport are even more subs-
tantial.2f In Brazil, for example, where it was possible to quantify
savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time and to convert the oper-
ating cost savings into petroleum import savings, economic rates of return
of over 50% and substantial net benefit values were estimated. Similar re-
sults are reported for other Central American capital cities (Churchill,
pp. 109 and 131; and San Josg Urban Transport Project, SAR pp. 30 and 31).
In Managua, where passengers and goods have to travel over relatively long
distances on a very poor urban road system, the savings from basic road
improvements are likely to be even higher and only to a limited extent
/19  Although it is difficult to be certain about the demand elasticity for
the services provided, the demand curve is assumed to slope downwards,
meaning that a share of the beneficiaries would demand similarly
serviced land only at a lower price.
/20  Similarly,  although  the use of  foreign exchange is at substantial
premium, no adjustments were made for the foreign component of
investment  costs.    This  reflects  the  presumption  that  reduced
petroleum consumption resulting from more efficient transport will
generate sufficient foreign exchange savings to offset the initial use
o1 foreign resources.
/21  See,  for  example,  Johannes  F.  Linn:    Policies  for Efficient  and
Equitable Growth of Cities in Developing Countries (World Bank
Staff--WP 342) and Anthony Churchill:   Road User Charges in Central
America (World Bank Staff OP15); San Jose Urban Transport Project
Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 1702a-CR).



-37-
reflected in increased property values.22 Nor are the full production
savings from the control of flooding likely to be reflected in these
values.
5.08       Given the city-wide scope of the project's benefits, an estimate
of the proportion of benefits chanelled directly to the urban poor as de-
fined by the Bank, can only be approximate.  In some areas where physical
works will be executed, as much as 80% of the families are below the pover-
ty line, while in others the percentage drops to 20%. Based on an overall
estimate of the income levels of the families residing in these areas,
about 50% of project expenditures are expected to directly benefit the
urban poor. Similar results are obtained from estimates of the proportion
of project investments going to improve public transport, adjusted by the
proportion of public transport users that are poor.
5.09      Because of the large number and variety of relatively small sub-
projects to be financed through the SAMU lline of credit, an overall
economic rate of return was not calculated for the SAMU component. For the
non-revenue earning subprojects such as bridges, streets, and storm
drainage, the analysis was primarily based on a qualitative evaluation of
investment priorities within a city from the point of view of improving its
functioning, a comparison of competing alternatives, and the establishment
of the least-cost solution both in terms of initial and maintenance costs.
Until now SAMU has not been carrying out an economic analysis of subproj-
ect. Detailed lending criteria for subprojects financed by SAMU using sub-
loan recoveries appear in the agreed statement of lending policies and
credit manual (para. 3.05).  These criteria include the demonstration that
there is a demand for the services to be provided by the project, level of
technical preparation necessary before a subproject can be presented, a
requirement that least cost solutions are adopted, and that all revenue
earning projects earn a financial rate of return of at least 15%.
5.10       In the future, and with the help of technical assistance (para.
2.18), SAMU will develop procedures to incorporate an economic rate of
return analysis for all subprojects beyond a size to be determined, taking
appropriate account of the opportunity cost of capital.
C. Project Risks
5.11        The proposed project has been formulated while the country is
well into a period of intensive reconstruction and will be implemented by
institutions which either have successfully participated in the early
stages of reconstruction or will be done with staff experiencd in this type
/22  Recent theoretical analysis suggests that for reasonable assumptions
for the elasticity of supply of labor and output, and for the
interaction of residential and production space, urban improvements
can be expected to lead to increases in wages and profits, in addition
to  rents;   concentrating  on  rents  would,   therefore,   tend  to
underestimate the true benefits from these works.   See Malcolm Getz:
A Model of the Impact of Transportation Investment on Land Rents,
Journal of Public Economics 4 (1975), pp. 57-70.



-38-
of work.   The scale will, however, be larger and some of the experience
entirely new.  The risks will, therefore, be considerable and this has led
to the incorporation of several safeguards  in project design.   Although
preparation time has been relatively short, the actual works are suffi-
ciently uncomplicated, and in many cases standardized, to facilitate execu-
tion.  In the case of JRM, which will be executing works almost identical
to those it has been carrying out successfuly since late 1979, the risk
derives mainly from weaknesses in financial management and control which
could lead to delays and cost overruns as well as the possibility that
revenue collections may not meet projections. Allowing for the possibility
of delays and some inefficiency leading to cost overruns does not affect
significantly the economic rate of return.    In order to reduce this rate
below  the  opportunity  cost  of capital  it would  take  such a degree of
inefficiency on the part of the JRM as cannot be reasonably contemplated
given its recent record.   The technical assistance proposed through the
municipal management component is designed to minimize this risk, and the
assumptions used in calculating revenues are in line with recent experi-
ence.  In the case of SAMU, the institution is new and untested.  It will,
however, benefit first from the six regional teams which are successfully
guiding the implementation of the Urban Reconstruction Project and second,
from substantial  technical assistance.   The subprojects  to be financed
under the SAMU component were appraised with the help of Bank staff.  This
provided the opportunity to apply the selection criteria developed by SAMU,
and it has also demonstrated the staff and training needs that would assure
successful  implementation of this project.   New staff has already been
hired and training is included under the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01         During negotiations,  agreement was reached on the following
matters:
(a) From Government:
(i) that it will provide all necessary counterparts, in-
cluding SAMU's operating costs, and that each year
these would be deposited in a project account at the
Central Bank and are at the disposal of SAMU (paras.
3.04 and 4.08);
(ii)   that the funds will be onlent by the Central Bank to
JRM  at  the  same  rate  of  interest   as  to  the
municipalities participating in the SAMU component
(para. 2.08);
(iii) that the funds will be onlent by the Central Bank to
SAMU at the same terms as the IBRD loan, and that SAMU
will onlend these at a rate of not less than 15%
(para. 2.08); and
(iv)  that it will at all times allow JRM to establish the
taxes and fees required to comply with 6.01 (c)(iii)
(para. 4.06 (b)).



-39-
(b) From each of the participating agencies:
(i)  that  separate  project  accounts  will  be  kept  and
promptly audited (paras. 3.18 and 3.19); and
(c) From JRM:
(i) that financial management policies will be reviewed and
a timetable of reforms to be implemented furnished to
the Bank as part of the management assistance program
(paras. 2.16 and 2.17);
(ii) that a plan and timetable for incorporating the con-
struction industry's particiLpation in implementing the
upgrading work be furnished by June 30, 1982 (para.
3.11);
(iii) that it will at all times carry on its operations to
ensure that its revenue sources will be adequate to
provide for all expenses of operation, maintenance and
debt services, and to provide the necessary counterpart
funds for the project (4.06 (a)); and
(iv) that before undertaking any investments in excess of
US$8 million in 1981 and US$2 million in the subsequent
years of project execution, over and above those in-
cluded in the proposed project,, it will demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Bank that such investments are
within its implementing capacity and that sufficient
funds are available to carry them out without jeopard-
izing the completion of the project (para. 4.07).
(d)  From SAMU:
(i) that participating municipalities will provide the
necessary counterparts for the subprojects to be
financed under the component (para. 2.08);
(ii)  that  SAMU  will  have  the  appropriate  organizational
structure and adequate staffing for carrying out the
component (para. 3.04);
(iii) the statement of lending policies, the credit manual
and the model participating contract between the FED
and participating banks to be used in carrying out the
component (paras. 3.05 and 5.09); and
(iv)  that SAMU will, each year until the Project has been
completed, review with the Bank, the adequacy of the
interest rate to be charged to participating munici-
palities (para. 2.08).



-40-
6.02      Special conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a) the establishment of a separate project account for SAMU in
the Banco Central de Nicaragua and the deposit by the
Borrower therein of US$300,000 equivalent (para. 3.14);
(b) the establishment of a Special Account in the Banco Central
de Nicaragua in the name of JRM (para. 3.14);
(c) the execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Borrower and JRM and between the Borrower and SAMU.   The
latter will define the FED's role as fiscal agent for the
Pilot Municipal Development Project (paras. 3.02 and 3.05).
6.03      With the agreements outlined above, the project is suitable for a
US$16.0 million Bank loan to be repaid over 20 years, including a five-
year grace period.



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$'000)
June '82    December '82  June '83    December '83  June '84   December '84
1st.           2nd.        3er.            4th.          5th.         6th.         Total
Semester        Semester      Semester      Semester    Semester       Semester
A. Managua Component
1. Neighborhooa Improve-
ments                    1,618 a/        1,994          1,687         2,657        2,084         1,165        11,205
2.  Major Storm Drainage        1,421 a/          297           255                                                  1,973
Subtotal            (3,039)         (2,291)       (1,942)       (2,657)      (2,084)       (1,165)      (13,178)
B. Pilot Municipal
Development Component            71             677           723           470          161                       2,102
C.  Municipal Management               50             110            140          140          140            140           720
TOTAL                3,160           3,078         2,805         3,267        2,385         1,305        16,000
CUMMULATIVE                          6,238         9,043        12,310       14,695        16,000
a/ Includes retroactive financing of US$1.4 million - US$0.4 million for Neighborhood Improvements and US$1.0 million
for Major Storm Drainage.
(DA
mx 
0



ANSNEX I
Table 2 of 5
-4Z-
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AANAGUA MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCT1'RE UPGRADING COMPONENT
SUMMARY COST PER DWELLING BY NEIGHBORHOOD
Ueighborhood             Total Cost Per    Cost Per
Neighborhood                                 Area In                        Number Of       Density                Neighborhood a/  Dwelling
No.         (Barrio)                                   Hectares    Population         Dwellings       D.O/ha.                 (in C$'000)        (in C$)
1.  Venezuela (Meneses)                              30.3            7,114          1,227            234.8                  5,649              C$4,604
1.  Monsenor Lezcano (II etapa)                      75.8           17,864          2,978            235.7                  9,822                 3,298
3.  San Cristobal                                    13.5            3,051            382            226.0                  2,513                 6,579
4.  Waspan                                           31.4            4,639            725            147.7                  4,487                 6,189
5.  Santa Rosa                                       44.2            6,235          1,023            141.1                 11,260                11,007
6.  Tenderi - Paraisito                              27.0            5,843            928            216.4                  3,598                 3,877
7.  Nicarao                                          22.0            5,712            907            259.6                  4,738                 5,224
8.  Blandon (Costa Rica)                             34.0            7,000          1,148            205.9                  7,271                 6,334
9.  San Judas - El Pilar                            128.5           38,995          4,496            303.5                 11,820                 2,629
10.  San Jose Oriental                                34.0            3,944            658            116.0                  5,940                 9,027
11.  Cuba (Gadala Maria)                              25.0            3,225            512            129.0                 18,487               36,107 b/
12.  Berta Calderon (Andres C.)                       86.0            6,827          1,138             79.4                  8,055                 7,078
13.  El Horizonte (C. Chamorro)                       55.5            6,202            955            111.7                  4,441                 4,650
14.  Riguero Sur (Revolucion)                         29.5            8,280          1,205            280.7                  3,427                 2,844
15.  Santa Elena Fatima                                9.5            1,522            220            160.2                  3,827                17,396 c/
16.  Santa Clara (Doritila L.)                        30.5            4,411            729            144.6                  5,299                 7,269
17.  Ar4el Darce  (La Fuente)                         58.2            8,387          1,296            144.1                  8,614                 6,693
18.  Rptos. Shick 1, 2, 3, 4                          60.0           17,498          2,366            291.6                  7,904                 3,341
19.  Seminaric - Miraflores                           45.6            8,522          1,356            186.9                  7,830                 5,774
20.  Silva - San Luis                                 31.8            7,448          1,207            234.2                  3,293                 2,728
21.  Larreynaga                                       26.5            6,531          1,059            246.5                  2,745                 2,592
22.  El Tempisque (S. Shieble)                        21.0            3,074             518            146.4                 3,273                 6,319
23.  Camro Bruce                                      37.7             5,623            860            149.1                 3,958                 4,602
24.  Alta Gracia                                      89.6            18,946         3,013             211.5                 7,308                 2,426
25.  Santa Barbara                                      8.2            1,013            172            123.5                 1,119                 6,506
26.  Acahualinca                                      38.0            9,111          1,215            239.8                  3,022                 2,487
TOTAL                1,092.3          217,017         32,293            198.7                159,502                 4,939
a/ February 1981 costs plus contingencies
b/  Ad2acent residents downstream increase total benefits to 1,800 dwellings or C$10,087 per dwelling
_/  Riguero Sur and Santa Elena Fatima comprise a single  integral zone with an average cost of C$5,090 per dwelling



ANNEX 1
-43-                                                            Table 3 of 5
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Managua Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading Component
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$'000)
June '82     Dec. '82      June '83       Dec. '83           June '84            Dec. '84
1st.        2nd.           3rd            4th.               5th                bth
Total  Semester    Semester       Semester        Semester          Semester            Semester
Neighborhood Improvements
1. Barrio   Venezuela (Meneses)            395      275          120
2. Barrio   Monse-or  Lezcano              618      432          186
3. Barrio   San Cristobal                  175      135           40
4. Barrio   Waspan                         314      236           78
5. Barrio   Santa Rosa                     718      430          288
6. Colonia   Tenderini y                   252       26          226
Barrio   Paraisito
7. Barrio   Nicarao                        332       40          292
8. Barrio   Costa Rica (Blandon)           439       44          307            88
9. Barrio   San Judas y Barrio El          757                   227           250             280
Pilar
10. Barrio   San Jose Oriental              416                    90           326
11. Barrio   Cuba                         1,133                   110           220             803
12. Barrio   Berta Calder5n -               564                                 364             200
Barrio   Andrgs Castro
13. Barrio   El Horizonte                   311                                 311
14. Barrio   Riguero Sur                    240                                  80             160
15. Barrio   Santa Elena - Fatima           268                                  48             190              30
16. Barrio   Domitila Lugo                  371                                                 297               74
(Santa Clara)
17. Barrio   Ariel Darce (La Fuente)        560                                                 100             300                   160
18. Repartos Schick 1, 2, 3, 4              500                                                  92             230                   178
19. Barrio   Seminario - Miraflores         548                                                  50             334                   164
20. Barrio   Silva - San Luis               230                                                 110             120
21. Barrio   Larreynaga                     192                                                  92             100
22. Barrio   El Tempisque                   228                                                 100             128
Barric   (Selim Shible)
23. Barrio   Campo Bruce                    277                                                  30             247
24. Barrio   Alta Gracia                    442                                                 133             309
25. Barrio   Santa Barbara                  713                                                                                       713
26. Barrio   Acahualinca                    212                                                                 212
Subtotal               11,205    1,618         1,984         1,687           2,637           2,084                1,215
%                (100)      (15)        (18)         (15)             (23)             (19)                  (10)
Major Storm Drainage
1. Waspan                                 791       791
2. 25 Avenida Suroeste                    485       485
3. Portezuelo                             161        86           75
4. Jocote Dulce                           138                     28           110
5. Prolongacion Ramal Nejara              128                     77            51
6. Check Dam - Jocote Dulce                59         59
7. Check Dams - El Arroyo Etc.            157                     87            70
8. Erosion Control Ramps                   54                     30            24
Subtotal               1,973      1,421          297           255
%               (100)      (72)           (15)          (13)
TOTAL              13,178      3,039       2,261          1,942          2,637            2,084                1,215
%               (100)      (23)           (17)          (15)          (20)             (16)                  (9)



-44-
.NICARAGUA                                                           ANNEX 
NICARAGUA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Tabl-e 4 of 5
MNICIPAL DEVELOP92NT PROJECT
Pilot Municipal Infrastructure Improvements Component
Ditursetment Schedule
(in tlSS'000
Junie 82   Dec. 82   June 83   Dec. 83   June 84
First      Second    Third       Fourth    Fifth
Total       Semester  Semester  Semester  Semester  Semester
Chinandesa
Market                    28            6         22
Market                   140                                 50          50         40
Chichigalpa
Market                     14                      7           7
Storm Drainage            14                                              7          7
Streets                   14                       3          7           4
Corinto
Streets                   63                      19         44
Storm Drainage            35                      35
El Viejo
Market                    140                                 30         s0         30
Bridges                    23           3 a/      20
Streets                  112            2         50         50          10
Leon
Market                    168          22         87          59
Streets                  161            7         50         64         40
Paz Centro
Market                     28                     14         14
Nagarote
Streeta                   98                      25         53         20
Tipitapa
Bus Station               21                       3         19
Storm Drainage              7                                             7
Streets                   49                      20         29
Mateare
Streets                   84                      20         44         20
Municipal Buildings        21                                 8          13
Juigalpa
Market                     49                                  7         25         17
Streets                   70                                 17         35          18
El Rama
Bus Station                35                                11          24
Streets                   42                                 14         28
Masaya
Bus Station                49           10        39
Bridges                    70           14        56
Streets                  112             7        40         43          22
Diriamba
Slaughterhouse           126                      40         74          12
Market                    140                     26          40         40         34
Bus Station                35                                            20         15
Nandaime
Market                     21                     17           4
Bus Station                14                                            14
Streets                   63                      44         19
Storm Drainage            21                      15          6
Nindiri
Streets                    35           _         25          10
TOTAL              2,102            71       677        723        470         161
(M)                (100)          (3)      (32)        (35)       (22)        (8)
a/ This amount will have been disbursed by December 31, 1981.



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MHinTeipa1 Management Componert
Cost Estimates
(in uS$ '000)                                       J R N
SAMU                                                               JRM        Grand
Local Technicians            Foreign Technicians  Total   Local Technicians                 Foreign Technicians          Total      Total
//MM   Cost/MN    Total   1/MM   Cost/MM    Total                #/M    Cost/MM    Total    #/MM   Cost/MM    Total
Technical Assistance
1.  Public Admin/Manag.                 24      2          48       6        8        48         96     24        2         24       4        8           32         56
2.  Public Finance/Taxes               24       2          48       6        8        48         96    24         2         24       6        8           48          72
3.  Public Lawyer                      12       2          24                                    24    12         2         24       4        8           32         56
4.  Regional Planner                    18      2           36                                   36
5.  Municipal Engineer                 12       2          24                                    24
Sub-Total                      90                 180      12                 96        276     60                  72      14                  112         184
Institutional Reinforcement                                                                                                                                                                                                41
1.  Systems Analysis                    24      2          48       6        8        48         96     18        2         36
2.  Management Training                24       2          48    10          8        80        128     12        2         24
3.  Staff Training                      30      1           30                                    O 30    30     1          30
Sub-Total                       78                126      16                128        254     60                  90                                       90
Equipment
1.  Vehicles                                                     4 vehicle 9          36         36
2.  Office Equip/Instr.                                                               2 50       50
86        86
Base Cost                                          306                        310        616                        162                           112         274          890
Contingencies   15%                                                                                                                                                        139
Total                                                                                                                                                                   1,029
015
0



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 10
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Financial Analysis
Background Information and Assumptions Used in the Financial Analysis
A. Introduction
1.        This note relates mainly to the project executing agencies - JRM
and SAMU. In the case of the SAMU component, however, separate analyses
have also been made for the 15 municipalities selected as beneficiaries
under the loan.
B. Background
Institutional Aspects
2.        Recent events in Nicaragua and their impact on public services,
together with the present stabilization and reorganization stage, imply
certain constraints on the analysis used here. As might be expected, there
is still some disorganization and uncertainty and the data sources are
incipient. This situation, aggravated by the absence of historical data,
has important repercussions for JRM's financial administration and for the
analysis of past performance. The financial functions are not consolidated
as a system in any one place; capital expenditure plans and the pertinent
budgets are received from a higher level, the (theoretical) control of
JRM's operating income is performed by the Collection Division and control
of the operating expenditures is the responsibility of the Finance Divi-
sion. Overall coordination is not fully effective.
Nature of Revenues and their Use
3.        Taxes on sales and commercial enterprise operations are JRM's
chief source of finance. JRM also receives income from (a) the issue of
bonds; (b) tax evasion fines; and (c) other lesser national taxes and fees
that are collected by the Finance Ministry and subsequently transferred to
the municipalities. The application of the sales taxes and other local
taxes is governed by a schedule of local fees and taxes which was updated
for the first time in 15 years in 1980. Revenues have doubled in recent
months, largely due to the application of this updated plan (beginning in
mid-1980). However, it will only be possible for this improvement to be
maintained and improved to the extent that the list of taxpayers is duly
kept up to date and is flexible and efficient (conditions that, in the
past, have not been met). The internal resources generated by JRM are used
to cover operating expenses, the provision of some urban services and the
maintenance of certain infrastructure facilities. Implementation of new
works is financed for the most part by funds allocated by other government
agencies.



-47-                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 10
Past Financial Performance
4.        The analysis of the data furnished by JRM for this study point to
the difficulties and deficiencies under which the municipal administration
has been working.   A major problem has been tax evasion,  either through
incorrect declaration of sales by taxpayers or because the taxpayers them-
selves are not listed by JRM; a recent survey carried out by JRM has made
it possible to determine past due taxes and to issue corresponding notices
for those omitted in previous years in the amount of approximately C$130
million, of which C$4 million was collected in 1980.   Similarly, not all
liabilities are recorded, and there is still uncertainty whether JRM is
obligated to meet others.   The fixed assets, such as administration and
operating premises and public service and infrastructure facilities have
lacked proper record-keeping and control, so that the financial data relat-
ing to the past are misleading and inconsistent (see Table IV-1 in text).
5.         In the three-year period (1978-1980) used for past data and the
first year of projections, fundamental changes are observed in the main
operating revenue item (taxes on sales and/or services), which can be ex-
plained as follows:   for 1978, the first year of the civil war, the same
level of collections is shown as for 1977; the 1979 figure is 38% down com-
pared with 1978, because 1979 was the critical year of the war; for 1980
there was an increase of 136% over 1979, though in relation to 1978 (a more
normal year), the increase was 47%--this increase being attributable to the
partial application of the new schedule of taxes.   The  estimated 1981
figure is 104% higher than 1980, based on fu:Ll application of the plan,
including potential taxpayers formerly ommitted, and growth of tax-revenue
generating activities (Table 1).
Financial Future
6.          On the basis of the Fees and Taxes Plan implemented in part in
1980 and made fully operational in 1981, an increase in revenues equal to
18% p.a. has been projected, assuming the progressive recovery of tax-
revenues' operating activities.   The results for 1981-86 are considered
acceptable  (0.79 operating ratio before depreciation and interest).   It
must also be borne in mind that JRM receives no revenue from property or
from betterment resulting from infrastructure works (paving, drainage,
etc.).
C. Criteria and Assumptions Used in the Projections
8. Revenues
(a)   all revenue headings for 1981, the first year of the projection,
were calculated separately;



Table I: Calculation of Sales Tax Revenues for 1981
(C$ thousands)
Taxpayers
With Sales      With Sales
Greater than    Less than
C$100,000/      C$100,000/
month           month
(75Z)           (25x)
Taxes collected in 1980                       81,500.00
Growth of economic activity:  20% a/          16,300.00
Base for 1981                            97,800.00          73,500.00        24,450.00
No. of taxpayers according to                  8,520                 620            7,900
current tax roll
Annual sales per taxpayer                                         11,830.60           309.50
Amount of tax, taxpayer/year
(a) 1% of first C$100,000/month x 12                                12.00             3.09
(b) 2% on sales over C$100,000                                     212.60             -
Subtotal                                                        224.60             3.09
Revenue from present tax roll                163,702.00          139,252.00        24,450.00
Additional revenues from inclusion of          2,615.00            1,392.50         1,222.50
potential taxpayers
Total revenues                          166,317.00          140,644.50       25,672.50
a/   The growth in the critical years 1977-80 was 12.2% p.a.
00
0
-                                                                              991~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 10
*(b)   from 1982 onwards, an annual increase of 18% was incorporated,
except for the following headings:
- tax adjustment (past due) payments remain fixed;
- fines: represents 2% of income and/or service taxes collected
in the preceeding year;
- others: represent 0.5% of direct revenues during the year,
minus tax adjustment payments.
8. Administrative Expenditures for Urban Services and Municipal Operations
(a)   The project's working file explains how expenditures were
calculated for 1981;
(b)   from 1982 onwards, a 25% increase was assumed.
9. Capitalizable Expenditures
These correspond to cost components for works in respect of
utilization of equipment, administration and supervision, which were pro-
jected as administrative expenditures.
10. Reserves and Provisions
(a)   depreciation refers to historical cost of durable and capital
goods such as machinery and equipment, furniture and buildings,
and public works (irrigation channels, canals, slaughterhouses);
(b)   annual depreciation rates are:
- machinery and equipment: 20%
- furniture: 10%
- buildings and public works: 3.33%
(c)   amortization refers to historical cost of infrastructure works
such as road paving parks, sidewalks, etc. An annual
amortization rate of 3.33% was applied.
11. Interest
See details in Table II. Additional information is available in
the project file.



ANNEX 2
?age 5 of 10
-50-
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE II  -  Service of Debt to be Contracted- jRM
(in C$ million)
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
A.  IBRD                    (15% p.a. for 20 years, 3 grace years)
Starting balance       ---                  53,300    99,290   131,780   124.028
Interest               ---        3,279      9,865    17,066    19,330    18,168
Amortization            ---         ---       ---        ---       7,752      7,752
Disbursements          ---       53,300    45,990    32,490        ---         ---
Final balance          --        53,300    99,290   131,780   124,028   116,276
B.  MORTGAGE BANK          (14% p.a.; 15 years; 2 grace years assumed)
Starting balance       ---        15,000    15,000       13,846    12,692   11,538
Interest              1,050        2,100      2,100       1,938      1,777    1,615
Amortization            ---         ---        1,154       1,154      1,154    1,154
Disbursements        15,000         ---        ---         ---        ---      ---
Final balance        15,000        15,000    13,846      12,692    11,538   10,384
SUMMARY
Starting balance       ---         15,000    68,3u0     113,136   144,272  135,566
Interest               1,050        5,379    11,965       19,004    21,107   19,783
Amortization            ---         ---        1,154       1,154      8,906    8,9U6
Disbursements         15,uO0       53,300    45,990       32,490      ---       ---
Final. balance        15,000       68,300   113,136    144,272   135,566  126,660
TABLE III - SERVICE OF DEBT TO BE CONTRACTED - SAMU
(in C$ million)
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Commitment Fee        ---       0.15      0.06      ---       ---      ---
Interest              ---       0.15      1.46      2.37      2.40     2.26
Amortization           --       ---        ---      ---       1.24      1.24
0.30      1.52     2.37      3.64      3.50



TABLE III
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
J.R.M.
Statement of Revenues and ExPenditures
(CS millions)
ACTUAL                                                                              PROJECTION
1978           1979                1980                 1981                1982                1983                 1984             1985             1986
REVENUES
SALES AND SERVICES TAXES                      55.5            34.6                81.5                166.3               196.2               231.6                273.2            322.4            380.5
OTHER TAXES                                    0.6            10.3                19.8                 20.2                23.9                28.1                 33.2             39.2             46.2
REGISTER AND LICENSE                           7.6             5.7                 6.8                 14.0                16.5                19.5                 23.0             27.1             32.0
SERVICES FEES                                  6.2            13.8                14.2                29.6                 34.9                41.2                 48.6             57.4             67.7
RECUPERATION OF TAXES                           --            - -                  4.0                  5.0                  5.0                 5.0                  5.0              5.0             5.0
Sub-Total             69.9            64.4               126.3               235.1                276.5               325.4                383.0            451.1            531.4
FINES                                          0.3             0.4                 3.1                  3.7                 3.3                  3.9                 4.6               5.5             6.5
OTHERS                                          1.7            2.3                 1.0                  1.5                  1.4                 1.6                  1.9              2.2              2.6
TOTAL REVENUES                                 71.9           67.1               130.4                240.3               2S1.2               330.9                 389.5           458.8            540.5
EXPENDITURES
ADMINISTRATION                                 23..6          31.9                37.2                51.3                64.0                77.2                  92.2            115.3            144.1
(CAPUALIZED)                                  ( 0.5 )         ( 0.3 )             ( o4; )           ,4  )                  16,4 )            ( 11.4 )             <  9.2 )        ( -    )             -     )
Net                  23.1            31.6                36.5               46.9                 47.6                65.8                 83.0            115.3             144.1
URSAN SERVICES                                 24.2           23.0                33.4                42.7                53.3                64.4                  76.9            96.1             120.1
MUNICIPAL OPERATIONS                            1.1           13.9                60.8                77.0                95.9               115.8                138.4            173.0             216.2
Sub-Total             48.4           68.5               130.7               166.6                196.8              246.0                298.3            384.4             480.5
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
Depreciation                                6.5            3.4                 4.2                14.7                22.4                 22.4                 22.4             0.3               0.3
Amortization                                 .              .                  _                   6.3                  6.3               11.5                  13.0             15.7              16.3
Sub-Total             6.5             3.4                 4.2                21.0                28.7                33.9                  35.4             16.0              16.6
INTEREST                                         .              .                   .                  5'9                 6._                  6.7                 15.3            24.9               23.3
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                             54.9           71.9               134.9               193,5                232.4              286.6                 349.0           425.3             520.4
SURPLUS FROM OPERATION                             17.0          (4.8)              ( 4.5)                46.8                48.8                 44.3                 40.5             33.5              20.1
OTHER REVENUES (EXPENDITURES) NON OPERATION       ( 3.2 )        ( 1.5 )            ( 0.5 )                ,-                   -                   -                                     
NET SURPLUS (Deficit)                              13.8          (6.3)              ( 5.0)                46.                 48.8                44.3                 40.5             33.5              20.1
OPERATING RATIO
With Depreciation                               0.76           1.07                1.03               3,76                  0.83                0.87                 0.86             0.91              0.95
Without Depreciation                            0.67           1.02                1.00               0,69                  0.75                0.80                 0.77             0.91              0.95
0



-52-
ANtE 2
Paag 7 of 10
TABLE IV
NICAhGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
J.R.M.
Statement of Cash Flow
(CS millions)
PROJECTIONS
1981             1982               1983              1984               1985                1986
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASE GENERATION
Net Surplss (Deficie)                                                46.8              48.8               44.3              40.5               33.5                20.1
Reserves and Provisions                                              21.0              28.7               33.9              35,4               16.0                16.6
Interest                                                              S.9               6.9                6.7              15.3               24.9               23.3
'TOTAL                               73.7             84.4               84.9               91.2              74.4                60.0
BORROWINGS
EBRD                                                                                   53.3               46.0              32.5                --                  __
Others                                                                15.0             -                  -                  --                 --                  --
TOTAL                                15.0              53.3              46.0               32.5               --                  --
CONTRIBUTIONS-                                                            31.9              --                 --                 --                --                  --
TOTAL SOLRCES                                                            120.6            137.7              130.9              123.7               74.4               60.0
A.PPLICATIONS
FIXED AND DEFERRED ASSETS
CONSTRUCTION
IBkD P-oject: Works                                                   13.6             58.1               44.4              25.2                --                  --
Capical-e-d Expenses                                   4.4              16.4               11.4               9.2                _-                  __
Interest                                               --                3.3               9.9                8.0                --                 --
SUB-TOTAL                            20.0             77.8               65.7               42.4               --                  --
OTHERS-                                                                   79'4              15.0              30.0               35.0               35.0               20.0
TOTAL                                99.4             92.8               95.7               77.4              35.0                20.0
MlNTICIPAL MANAGEMENT                                                      --                 .2                .4                 .2               __                  __
DEBT SERVICE
I3R5D: Amortd-ation                                                    --               --                 --                --                 7.8                 7.8
Interest                                                        --                --                --                 9.1               19.3               18.2
Other: Anortization                                                    3.5              9.0                9.3               12.1              11.9                10.4
Interest                                                       5.9               6.9               6.7                6.2               5.6                 5.1
TOTAL                                 9.4             15.9               16.0               27.4              44.6                41.5
WORKING CAPITAL                                                            8.3               8.3               8.3               10.0
T'OTAL APPLICATIONS                                                      117.1             1L7.2             120.4              115.0               79.6               61.5
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH                                                3.5              20.5              10.5                8.7               (5.2)              (1.5)
CEET SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                                                7.8               5.3               5.3                3.3                1.7                 1.5
CONTRIbUTION TO INVESTI1RNT (7)                                           59.7             67.6               61.1               72.8              N.A.                N.A.
/  Paymests by other -gennies for works carried out for then by JRM1.
2/ JR57's -ortion only.
3/ Inoestment program after 1983 is indicative of the level which could be sustained without raising tan rates
or incurring additiosal borrowing. JRM's 5-year plan in-ludes additional investments fnr which they are
seeking financing frm varinos sources.



TABLE V
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAMU
STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
(C$ Millions)
Actual           -------------------------Projection.------------------------------------
1980            1981           1982            1983           1984           1985           1986
FINANCIAL REVENUES
INTEREST:
From IBRD) Subloans                                    --               --             2.2            4.3             4.5           4.5             4.4
Fromn Other Sources                                    0.1              1.5            1.9            2.8             3.0           3.4             4.2
Total                                         0.1             1.5            4.1             7.1            7.5            7.9            8.6
FINANCIAL COST
INTEREST:
IBRD                                                   --               --             0.3            1.5             2.4           2.4             2.3
Others  -a                                                              0.8            1.4            1.7             1.7           1.7             1.7
Total                                         --              0.8            1.7             3.2            4.1            4.1            4.0
NET FINANCIAL INCOME                                       0.1             0.7             2.4            3.9            3.4            3.8            4.6
ADMINISTRATION EXPENSE                                     5.1             6.4            8.0            10.0           12.5           15.6           19.5
NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)  b/                                 (5.0)           (5.7)           (5.6)          (6.1)          (9.1)         (11.8)         (14.9)
a/  Interest for earlier borrowings and 2% charge for financial
agent participation in IBRD project.
b/ This is a memorandum figure for illustrative purposes only.  In                                                                                                         o
accordance with current practice Government will meet the cash
administrative expenses from budgetary sources.



-54-
ANNEX 2
TABLE VI                                   Page 9 of 10.
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S A M U
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
(C$ Millions)
1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985         1986
SOURCES
INTEREST REVENUE                        0.1        1.6        4.1        7.1        7.5       7.9          8.6
Government Grants 1/                  8.5         -         0.5        0.3        0.2        -            -
BORROWINGS
IBRD Project: IBRD                     -          -         9.1       14.7        4.4        -
Government              -         0.9        4.7        1.4         -         -
SUB-TOTAL                        -         0.9       13.8       16.1                   -             -
OTHERS                               11.4       17.0         -          -          -         -
TOTAL                          11.4       17.9       13.8       16.1        4.4        -             -
RECOVERY FROM MUNICIPALITIES
IBRD Project                           -          -          -          -          -        0.4          0.5
other Projects 2/                     0.4        1.9        5.0        7.0        9.6      12.3         12.9
TOTAL                            0.4       1.9        5.0         7.0       9.6      12.7          13.4
TOTAL SOURCES                          20.4       21.4       23.4       30.5       21.7      20.6         22.0
APPLICATIONS
FIXED ASSETS                            0.7        0.3         -          -          -
LOANS TO MUNICIPALITIES
IBRD Project                           -         0.3       20.2        4.7        2.8        -            -
Other Projects                        7.2       20.1         -        13.0       12.0      15.0         17.0
TOTAL                           7.2       20.4       20.2       17.7       14.8      15.0         17.0
OTHER INVESTMENTS 3/                    3.2        5.3        0.9        0.9        0.2        -            -
DEBT SERVICE
IBRD Project
IBRD: Amortization                     -          -          -          -          -        1.2          1.2
Interest                        -          -         0.3        1.5         2.4      2.4           2.3
Government                       -         -           -         -         0.5       0.5          0.5
SUB-TOTAL                        -           -        0.3         1.5        2.9      4.1           4.0
OTHERS: Amortization                     -          -          -          -          -         -            -
Interest                        -         0.8        1.4        1.7        1.7       1.7          1.7
SUB-TOTAL                         -        0.8        1.4        1.7        1.7       1.7          1.7
TOTAL                             -         OA         1.7        3.2        4.6      5.8           5.7
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                     11.1       26.8       22.8       21.8       19.6      20.8         22.7
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN
WORKING CAPITAL                         9.3        (5.4)      0.6        8.7        ?.1       (0.2)        (0.7)
1/ Start-up allocation in 1980 and counterpart for Municipal Management component of proposed project in 1982-4.
In addition, the Government would cover SAMU's administration expenses.
2/ Includes C$1.0 million contribution to Municipal Management component of proposed project in 1982-3.
3/ Disbursement of C$8.5 million start-up allocation in 1980-1 and SAMU portion of Municipal Managemant
component of proposed project in 1982-4.



ttlSICIfAl1- 1998909   0039
$877-  35 57S59C106L5T008
CSJ-     511-.I11599)    1-1
(A)     Reoc.c.                                           57,193          105.871           403.062            20,890              9.0,77,7649.7                                              '4.467             18.305              1,910               3.912              15, 764           5,440                27681.8
717+9C7 Opoo-ics 0ape-.e                                 (4.9)            1407                7,37             7775                 ,97            7777                   7..7(5,08                              7 .  11,5557       71, 332)            72.33              ,7~777            7399                   7,97'052
Sp_fat-9  Bea        --ltee                      10,097           271.840            24,123             3,725             2,376             3.394                  ,J91.429                                .750               474               L1,47              7,967             2.391                  1,697             1,9
(8)  loSereso                               7~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~          ~    ~~2.2772      2.9707    1,8027  2 7.1 397  7 70527       2 ,257)                 9507                78477              7086,              70377              7827)              10427              7665)                 (3727              7768)
(17     Olh-r iSoe   Opc4,ce                                  77         7466                  .4)             --                                                           --                                     .                  ----                                                     -18
Net 6-9-  (DleStoS)                               7. 0 3Sl1,9B,8                                                  =~~434177                             ~        93072                                    4464                 61772                              7.125              1.726                 1,463             4,9
-   ilh oep-i-atl..                               .82              .79               .76                .82              .7).6                                    9                   .91                .63                 .74               .60                  .49              .59                   .92                .0
Wfth-.9c  DI-i-eCSS..                             .79              .77               .75                .9.71                               .63                   .83                 .09                .67                 -9                .54                  .48              .50                   .90                .8
..b0 Se.ei- SSSa2.53                                                2.64              3.02              7-23              7.93              1.13                  5.07                1.67               I9.42               2.37               9.90                0109             2.61                  3.35               25
lletttb.cetcc to OtteeteesS  737    ~~~~~67.65        60.22             87.17             16.25             43.07             23.43                 71.7?               31.07               07.27              89.12              38.36               67.82             60.07                 6.48              42.24p
Itett tt OS  ech. S.,tl-e                  6,557           13.001            19.70                 432             7.196               034                4,029                  507              8.942                 347               90                 70,988           1,4)6                 0,171                07
FIN08CIAL 01L1 1981-88
17  0  95  3      98      2         CS      1         76~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.  0  05C$4             7           9        0         9 C,                                  C$0     3  -         23      0            C$      0           O        lx3
(08       0.t-Ica  Feede Cete,tia                     11,532  112.2   10.876  116.9    23.145 210.6    4,300   05.3    2.748   90.8    3,831   76.9                  7.483   67.3        1,990    8719       6.975   98.9       67)     85.3       1.792   79.7        8.23.'   96.5        2,707   92.2        2.137   962        235       8.
(C)       I.-e Debt te-ite                            74,530) (64.47    735    6.3 7,0)720    358   7693)(7.423)  747.07  (2 ,7491 733.97                            --7-M   i 71717    71133.  7 125).  -     36    7.)        484      3.0         93   742.0)      __I  71.01)_ ( 11.7  (1.0377  73747        763     2.)       (,27 3.
N., lo-eene  Oeet-ed Fcoot                   6,975   67.8   10,481    02.3   18.532   88.6            822   16.0    1,325   43.8    0,182   23.1           3,719    27.2          757   35.1       6.569   92.8        389    -93          049   37.7         7,277   82.8        3,670   60.3        1,534    67.5       012      4.
(31      Ocoeete,09                                    2.310    22.5     3.29     29.1    1.680    8.0    3.010   58.0    1,191   39.6    2,7)1   53.8                 773   19.3           980   43.4         350     5.9      200     3 5 .9       980   43.8        1.250   02.1            770   27.8         42      89       111       4.
54187                   ~~~~ ~~~~       ~~~990  9.9    7.410  8.2  720    3.4  1.9     52        59 1,            ,7       51          373     4.0         470   17.5           50     2.1      120     15.27.20    18.7                 450    5.          5_30   11.9           190    79510   17.7
Sat-ota,l                 3,300   32.1      4,700   27.3    2.408   01.4    4,300    04.0    1.700   56.2    3.930   79.9               1,107    2 2 .0      1,409    64.9        300     7.1      400    50.7        1.400    sl.3        1.503    17.2       1,400   39.7          690   29.4        1.700    57.
T -enfe-                                       -                  ----                                                                    --     --          --      -             -       --                 -                             -      -
=  1=-e==e4--==  ee,         .      eee            ee-aacea-len..aaa..~ .c                 cene=ae===acs=~ =aaae=cce=ecaacc=__a===e.c....-cc2c.2cc.'c7'
(M0)      0063  Ot-j-t                                 3.794   36 .5    5. 293   30.6    2.3551   1 2.2    4,629   90.4    1,873   61.9    4.208   82.3                  8 2,90 2.5       7497    49 .2        562     8.0      1445      -64      1,a10   71.4         7.~723   19 .9      1.324   4 7.8         t      291.22               97
707      Olbh-   Osot                                  6.557   63. 8   1 3,001   75. 7   18. 708   89. 4       630    8.4    1 .196   39.9          894   19.3       3, 029   63.7          892   40.-        ,4      99.5       56 7    44 .0       602    26.8        7,99    01.1        1.456   52.5        1.717    75884               3.
70)470)  Octti..g CapItal  7   367  7 0.37   71,113)  7 6.57   7  3277  7 1.87  63    1.2    7   447  7 7.47    70    1,7     ~~~~~~~  (9.27          72407  710.17       74357   (4.5 (ILI)I_70.67)             36    9.9 _114II71.57                    7867   70.37       71077_(74777884_2.9
5201 Applltetlcce  1~3375  100  17 181                    ___               3 125  100.0      5 11210047  ........39~  175.7,         2.-.'  100.0       7.049  130.0        799   100. 9.269  100.948,717   700.0                      2.73   100.972,272  700.772.682  120.
=~=                                             aaa~~c.                 -0-c-   tat          ccctccctcs-------------






NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANAGUA RECONSTRUCTION BOARD - JRM
ORGANIZATION DIAGRAM OF DEPARTMENTS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1,
JRM Board
I    JJRM/IBRD
---'Project Manager and
[Coordination Staff 
_  ._ _ _ _ _ I__ -         -
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Urban        PersonneZ and        Internal
MunicipaZ Operations                Services       Administrative       Operation         Financial
Department                    Department         Services           Control          Department
Department        Department.
Planning    Implementa-   Transport &   Parks    Sanita-      Procurement        Supervision
Division   :    tin          Road        Divi-    tion Di-'    Division           Division
Division   t Maintenance   :sion    vision
l  _l    -1                             ..........   .1I  I                    . I    I                 I
Design, En-  'Construction I Maintenance  IPark &   Refuse  i  Procurement   ! Conatruction    ,  Accounting
gineering    )   o               and        Open  I Collec- i of MateriaZs   I Control and       '       and
iSpecifica-   '  Civil          Repairs    ISpace  I tion &  i and Equipment       Reporting           Financial
t-tions, Cost  I  Works                    1tMainte-I pest    i                                          Control
t Estimates   ainance  I Control I                                                                                    I
|~~~~~ Refor7-      
est.
1/ JRM's complete organization diagram is in the project's file.                                                  0
.Is



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PILOT MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
THE AGENCY FOR MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS - SAMU
ORGANIZATION DIAGRAM
Executive Director
(Minister and Vice Minister)
|Office of Informzation|                                            
and Public Relations                                                  LglDvso
Programming.,                                                 Inter-Agencyl
Administrative                Planning and                      Projects                   Municipal Coor-
Department                  Design Dept.                     Department                  dination Dept.
Account-      Person-     Procure-     Design       Economic    Program-    Planning    EvaZua-               Technical Assist-
ing and         net         ment        and         & Socio-      ming        and         tion               ance Programe to
Budgeti7      Division    Division      Engi-       Economic    Division    Evalua-        and              Mknicipalities
Division                               neering      Studies                   tion       Monitor-
Division    Division                Division       ing                  Zone A
Zone B
Zone C
Zone D
0



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PART A - MANAGUA INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION
IN       $ '000)
COMPONENTS                      TOTAL               1981                                  1982                                                83 4
COTS4                                        2                       4            12                       3           4            1            2
NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENTS - BARRIOS
1 VENEZUELA (MENESESI                         5,894                                               3,77 2l 22
2. MONSENOR LEZCANO (11 ETAPA)               10,068                                               4,931                     5827
3. SAN CRISTOBAL                              2,513                                            2,513
4  WASPAN                                     4,604                                                3,453  1,154
5  SANTA ROSA                                11,489
6. TENDERI Y BO PARAISITO                     3,598
7  NICARAO                                    5,3588 
8. COSTA RICA (BLANOONI                       7,155                                                3,578                 3,57778
9  SAN JUDAS Y 80 EL PILAR                   12,278
10. SAN JOSE ORIENTAL                          6,082                                                 69                            5,41
11. CUBA (GADALA MARIA)                       17,080
12. BERTA CALDERON- ANDRES CASTRO              8,241
13. EL HORIZONTE                               3,928                                     _
14  RIGUERO SUR IREVOLUCION)                   3,350
15  SANTA ELENA-FATIMA                         3,912                                                                                                    97E             .
16. DOMITILA LUGO (SANTA CLARA)                5,416                                                                                                                                5,416
17. ARIEL DARCE (LA FUENTE)                    9,159                                                                                                   8
18  REPTOS. SCHICK 1, 2, 3, 4                  8,574                                                                                                    _                               7,574                             n
19. SEMINARIO - MIRAFLORES                     7,774
20. SILVA-SAN LUIS                             3,340                                                                                                                              3
21. LARREYNAGA                                 2,745                                                                                                                                        2,745
22. EL TEMPISOUE                               3,371                                                                                                                                                     3,371
23. CAMPO BRUCE                                4,058                                                                                                                                     4,058
5,994     896
24. ALTAGRACIA                                 6,8908
28. SANTA BARBARA                               1,118 
26. ACAHUALINCA                                1,508_
SUB-TOTAL   (159,502)
MltAJOR STORM DRAINAGE
1. WASPAN                                     11,317167
2. 25 AVE SUR-OESTE                           6,9312/              |1,00
3. CHECK DAM JOCOTE DULCE                       637                                                 2221
4. PORTEZUELO                                  2,223
I 9,66
5. JOCOTE DULCE                                1,966                                                 .Eq
6  PROLONG RAMAL NEJAPA                        1,878                                                12878
2,263R
7. CHECK DAMS-EL ARROYO ETC                    2,283
8. EROSION CONTROL RAMPS                        745                                                   74_.____
SUB-TOTAL   I 28,180)
TOTAL   (167,6621
0
1JEmergency Work - 1.0 M,1Io -nor included in thn pro,nct
2 Emrngencv Work-0.4 MdIlion-not inluded In the project                                                                                                                                      WolId Bak -22751



o        a                                                                                         0  0
______                             0 0                                                                                                          _______ _______
00                                                                  0        0
____                                                                      a __                         -    1                 a           a         __
_______                              0                                                     7                                                    __________ _________
7                                                                                                0                                                                          00
0                    0110                                                                                            0  0 00 0000
0                                                                                         00                                         00
1                                                               0                            0                0
a                                                         0                                                                                                           0         0
____________________________________________________________________________________________ I.
ii
II
0            _____________________________________ II
010   0 010  0  00   7  0  00   0 0  00   0  001  00 I 0  00   0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  01 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  01 0
010   0 010  0  00         0  00   0 0  aOl 0  00   00   0  00   0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0                         0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  a. a
a ooooaoo  ooooo'  al                                                          0000                                                                              ao
C              a           C           a                                      C     a      C            C     C
-     C                    -     0           1-          0     C    C                           C     -      C                   C
0  C   C    C    0    0  C    C     C   C       C    0  C    0  C    C                         0      C         C    C    C  C      C     C
C   a  C    C,  C  C  -    a   -    -   C  a       -1                     01    C  C   C  C    0    C  C  C    0  C    C   C     C  C    0  0  C
- C C - 0CCCC0CC.CaC
021                    0    .,                          a                           Cl                  0
C 0    C    OCCCC Ct C                                 CC                  C  C C OCI.0CCC.C
CECCCFC1 C 0 C   C COCCCOC0C C C                                                      C C 0 C 0010CC
C00C.CCCCCC0<O C C0CCCCOO  C C C                                                                 COO                                        00  CCC
C  CO   C  C                a C  C  - C  C C  -  .0..
.2 0 0 C. 00 0 00 00
0                       a                                           C.
0         C           0-                                                                   0



-60-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAMU Lending Criteria and Detailed Description of Subproject
and Participating Municipalities
I. LENDING CRITERIA
A. Selection Criteria and Procedures
1.        SAMU and FED will select participating municipalities based on an
analysis of urban centers and subregions and their growth potential within
the framework of the national economy, using the following criteria:
(a) relationship of the urban centers to national production;
(b) cross-sectoral investment plans;
(c) potential for generating new, permanent, employment;
(d) growth trends and potential;
(e) degree of existing infrastructure and support services
(installed capacity); and
(f) financial capacity.
2.        To be eligible for financing, a municipality must present a
financing plan demonstrating its ability to generate its share of project
costs from its own revenues after covering operating expenses, debt
service and other essential investments, as well as its capacity to
repay the proposed loan and operate and maintain the project. If the
financing plan involves levying new charges, such charges should have
been approved in principle by the municipal authorities prior to loan
approval by SAMU and their final approval should take place prior to
initiation of works. The municipality must also demonstrate its ability
to implement and operate the proposed project.
3.        Prior to considering a proposal for a subloan to any municipality,
SAMU will prepare a report for its credit committee demonstrating that the
municipality conforms to the above.
B. Subloans
1.        Loans will be made to eligible Participating Municipalities for:



-61-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
(a) infrastructure works of the following types: storm drainage
(including outfalls), flood protection, street improvements
(including repairs, pavement, gutters and walkways), erosion
control, bridges and bridge repair;
(b) municipal buildings: markets, inter-city transport facilities;
(c) improvement of municipal administration and finance.
2.        To be eligible for financing, a project must be supported by
detailed designs in accordance with guidelines to be established by SAMU
for each type of work and must meet technical and financial tests.
3.        SAMU loans will cover a maximum of 90% of the cost of the project,
with the balance being covered by the municipality. They will be for terms
of up to 10 years, adjusted according to the nature of the project and the
capacity to pay of the municipality.
II. PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
1.        The improvements proposed for the Chinandega Subregion will be
supervised by the existing technical unit in Chinandega and will cover the
works in three adjacent towns within a 20 km radius, as follows:
(a) For the Municipality of Chinandega (48,200 inhabitants) where the
emergency works of the Urban Reconstruction Project (Credit 965-NI)
are virtually complete, this project will provide financing for
reinforcing the municipal marketts structure and rehabilitating
the second floor of the central market to permit its safe use at a
cost of C$400,000. A new market in the south section of the city
adjacent to the railway station, with space for buses and freight
trucks is also included ie the project. The new market will
provide2120 stalls of 6 m each within a gross floor area of
1,200 m at an estimated cost of C$2 million. The total improve-
ments for Chinandega is estimated to cost C$2.4 million.
(b) In Chichigalpa (20,500 inhabitants), 15 km from Chinandega, the
improvements under this project will provide for the reconditioning
of the central market with new stalls, walkways, and paved courts at
an estimated cost of C$200,000. Flood protection works (costing
C$200,000) will be provided for three barrios which today are
subject to flooding. Paving and local drainage for an estimated
C$200,000 will be provided around the market area and main street
which is used as the truck access to the sugar refinery). The total
improvements for the town is estimated to be C$600,000.



-62-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
(c) Corinto (18,000 inhabitants) is the major port for Nicaragua located
on the Pacific coast. Despite its importance, few improvements have
been made in the city over the last two decades due to lack of
financing. A drainage study in 1977 proposed storm drainage
improvements for an estimated cost of C$ll million. The port and
town are built on an island with a maximum high point of 2.75 m
above sea level. During the rainy season, a major portion of the
town is flooded. The project will improve the most affected zone
by providing 310 m of closed and open section drains with drop in-
lets, and a sea outfall at an estimated cost of C$500,000. In addi-
tion, the main road through the town will be improved for six
blocks (520 m) for an estimated C$900,000. Consulting Engineers
are studying the sub-base prior to finalizing the specifications.
(d) El Viejo (14,000 inhabitants), located 5 km from Chinandega, is in
the center of the cotton production and has a number of small-scale
industries. As a consequence, it has the highest growth rate in
the subregion. The project will provide a new market to replace
the present dilapidated structure on a new site (the present site is
far too small). By the end of 1981, the Municipality is expected to
acquire the new site located three blocks from the city center. The
estimated cost of the new market excluding land is C$2 million. In
addition, repairs estimated at C$200,000 were scheduled to be made
to the main bridge (35 years old),part of which collapsed during an
unusually heavy rain storm in November 1980. In April 1981 the
bridge was destroyed in another storm. The originally planned re-
placement was made on an emergency basis and proposed for retroactive
financing. Actual cost was C$3.1 million. Repairs to a second
bridge will also be provided for an additional C$30,000. Paving
will be provided on blocks which already have walkways, curbs and
gutters plus six additional blocks (480 m) for an estimated
C$1,600,000. The total improvements to the town will be C$3,930,000.
2.        Improvement proposed for the Leon Subregion will be supervised by
the technical unit in Leon which will cover the works in two other towns, as
follows:
(a) The emergency works for Leon (88,000 inhabitants) under the Urban
Reconstruction Project (Credit 965-NI) are almost complete including
the repairs to the central market and Santos Barcenas market;
however, the demand for market space has increased as the economy
of the town has improved. There is a ne2d for an additional 300
stalls that will be provided in 2,000 m of the new construction
within the Santos Barcenas market complex plus an expansion area
of 400 m2 on the opposite side of the market at an estimated cost
of C$2.4 million. These improvements will enable the Municipality
to optimize the use of the site and serve the needs of the community
at least for the medium-term. In addition, paving and storm drainage
of 1.6 km of bus routes through the northwest section of the city
will be provided for an estimated C$2.3 million.



-63-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
(b) Paz Centro (9,900 inhabitants) located 35 km from Leon, produces
clay products, building materials and handicrafts; a slaughterhouse
financed by SAMU is under construction. The project will provide
a new market in the center of the town, which will provide 50
stalls in 350 m2 in an "L" shaped building adjacent to the municipal
building with direct access to the central square. The market is
estimated to cost C$400,000. With this major improvement to the
town center, the municipal bus service will be relocated to be
adjacent to the new market.
(c) Nagarote (10,500 inhabitants) located 49 km from Leon is in the
center of an intensively irrigated agriculture zone with good pros-
pects for growth. With the new operations of Puerto Sandino, the
municipal income will increase for C$70,000 to C$100,000. The
project will improve the bus routes in the town with paving and
storm drainage for 1,200 m,including a box culvert for an estimated
cost of C$1,400,000.
3.        The improvements program in four satellite towns within the Managua
Subregion will be supervised from the SAMU headquarters. Two of the munici-
palities are adjacent (within 22 km) and two are 110 and 230 km to the east.
The operations will include:
(a) In Tipitapa (21,900 inhabitants), located 20 km east of Managua, a
new market financed by SAMU is under construction. The town has a
strong industrial base with steel, wood, and chemical products and
the second highest population growth rate in the country (9% per
annum). The project will add a bus station adjacent to a previously
paved parking area; 6 bus bays will be provided for an estimated
C$300,000. Storm drainage works and a new road (800 m) will
connect the new market and bus station to the center of town and the
bypass highway for an estimated C$100,000 and C$700,000, respectively.
(b) The Municipality of Mateare (2,000 inhabitants) located 22 km north-
west of Managua, has a large municipal income due to a number of
industries including a container manafacturer, steel foundry, and
lumber mills; it is an industrial satellite town for Managua. The
town has not been able to provide infrastructure for industrial
growth; the municipal offices are hopelessly inadequate in a small
converted two-room farm house. The project will provide a new
municipal building with space for other Government agencies at an
estimated cost of C$300,000. In addition, 1,100 m of streets will
be paved for an estimated C$1,200,000 and thus provide improved
access to industrial sites. The Municipality currently spends more
than C$100,000 every year to repair the eroded streets.
(c) Juigalpa (19,500 inhabitants) located 137 km east of Managua is a
rapidly growing (5.9% per annum) market town in the central region.
The project will provide a new market of 50 stalls for an estimated
C$700,000 with a large open area to accommodate venders' overflow
during peak days. Storm drainage and paving for bus route will also
be provided through the town at a cost estimated at C$1,000,000.



-64-
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
(d) El Rama (3,400 inhabitants) located at the end of the paved highway
230 km from Managua, is the entry port for the "roll-on/roll-off"
operations from the United States coast port and has good prospects
for economic growth. It is also the center for a new agricultural
zone on the Atlantic coastal plain. It has a 12% per annum growth
rate. The project will provide a bus station and trucking terminal
with 9 bays at an estimated cost of C$500,000. Partial paving and
water bound macadam and storm drainage will improve the bus and
truck routes at an estimated cost of C$600,000.
4.        Improvements proposed for the Masaya Subregion will be supervised by
the Masaya technical unit covering the works in three other towns, as follows:
(a) For the city of Masaya (52,300 inhabitants), this project will
finance a bus station adjacent to the market built as part of the
Urban Reconstruction Project. This includes only a first stage
for 12 bus bays which will be expanded to 16 in the future. In ad-
dition, a new road (estimated to cost C$1.6 million) will provide
a direct connection from the bypass highway so that the inter-city
buses avoid travelling over city streets. Three new bridges will
also be provided over the main storm drainage that separates the
new market from the town end highway at an estimated cost of C$l
million.
(b) Diriamba (18,500 inhabitants) located 34 km from Masaya is surrounded
by one of the principal coffee, poultry, and cattle producing areas.
The present 60-year-old slaughterhouse in the city's center is a
focus of contamination. It has no sanitary facilities and equipment
and yet it processes 15 to 20 cattle and 20 to 30 pigs daily. The
project will provide a new slaughterhouse located 3 km from the
town in an agricultural zone near a coffee processing plant where
adequate water is available. A site has been acquired by the
Municipality along with adjacent land for a sewage lagoon. The
slaughterhouse, which is estimated to cost C$1.8 million, will
serve the surrounding towns of San Marcos, Masatepe, Jinotepe, and
will have a daily capacity of 50 head of cattle and 40 pigs.  The
present market is in a dangerous condition and too small. The
project will provide a new market on a large site adjacent to the
railway station, two blocks from the center of the town,with a
direct connection to the Panamerican highway. One hundred and
twenty stalls will be provided at an estimated cost of C$2 million.
A bus station adjacent to the proposed market will also be provided
to accommodate the 60 daily inter-city buses that pass through the
town. Municipal buses and taxis will also use the station. The
estimated cost is C$500,000.



5ANNEX 4
-65-                          Page 6 of 6
(c) Nandaime (9,200 inhabitants) located 38 km from Masaya, is a rice,
corn, and sugarcane producing area with a major sugar refinery and
lumber mills nearby. Part of the municipal market was recently
destroyed by fire. The project will rebuild the roofs, interior
partitions and install new sanitary services and lighting. The
roof will also be reconditioned. The total repairs are estimated
at C$300,000. In addition, a bus station will be provided one
block from the market, at an estimated cost of C$200,000. The storm
drainage around the market will be improved along with partial
paving and macadam surfaced streets. No paving will be provided
where sewage lines are to be installed in the future. The drainage
works are estimated to cost C$300,000 and the street improvement
C$900,000.
(d) Nindiri (4,000 inhabitants) located 5 km from Masaya in a major
cotton producing area; SAMU has recently financed a new municipal
building. The project will provide street improvements (720 m)
at an estimated cost of C$500,000.



-66-
ANNEX 5
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STORM DRAINAGE MASTER PLAN STUDY FOR MANAGUA
1.        The storm drainage improvements presently under construction by
JRM and those proposed in this project have been engineered to provide
flood protection for the existing developed areas of Managua with no
built-in excess capacity. The study proposed by JRM will provide the basis
for reorganizing the storm drainage to intercept the run-off for future
urban expansion of Managua and provide diversion channels around, instead
of through, the present urban network.
2.        Under the Proposed Master Plan Study, the geophysical character-
istics of the region will be analyzed and major drainage alternatives
identified. Managua's basic hydrology will be studied in relation to the
proposed land-use plan for Managua on a 25-year projection. From a study
of rainfall-frequency, intensity, and duration--curves will be revised for
5, 10, 15 and 20-year storm projections and standards and regulations for
storm water management will be developed based on reforestation, erosion,
and run-off into the various sub-drainage basins. A "design' year will be
selected for the degree of flood protection that is affordable, phased over
time. Appropriate erosion control devices will be planned at strategic
locations. The capacities of the present drainage channels will be checked
in the light of the revised rainfall data and standards. Existing flood
problems in the eastern and western drainage zones will be given priority
with designs for retention basins to spread the concentration.  Preliminary
designs of the alternative hydraulic works will be analyzed to obtain a
cost/benefit justification of the preferred alternative. Development
standards and land-use regulations will be translated into legal documents
to control agricultural land-use as part of the storm water management of
the region.
3.        JRM plans to create a special unit to prepare the study consist-
ing of hydrologists and hydraulic, civil, structural, sanitary, and agri-
cultural engineers along with ecologists, soils, and forestry experts. The
study will require about 160 man-months of profesional services over a
two-year period. In addition, the unit will consult with the Governmental
Agencies of INE; IGN (Instituto Geografico Nacional); MIDA (Ministry of
Integrated Rural Development); IRENA, for reforestation, MINVAH for urban
development; INAA for sanitary sewerage infrastructure (existing and pro-
jected); as well as INTURISMO for tourism and natural resources development
and the Servicio Meteorologico Nacional. The estimated cost of the study
is US$350,000 of which 30% or US$100,000 will be foreign exchange for
special consultants, vehicles, and technical equipment. UNDP has agreed,
in principle, to finance this study, the proposal has been submitted by JRM
and is being reviewed for approval.



-67-
ANNEX 6
Table 1 of 5
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
XnaIsua Neighborhood Uograding Component
Indicatoro for Monitoring Implementation
1981 Semester                         1.982 Semester                                  1983 Semester                      1984 Semester
I           i       IT                       I                         C II
No.  Neighborhood  (Barrio)            AE   P PE  ICE  |AP   AE   PE   CE   AP  ! AE   P PE   CE   AP   AE   PE    CE   AP   AE   PE   CE  |AP   AZ   PE   CE   AP
1.  Venezuela (Meneses)                21                     79               1                                                     i
2.  Monsenor Lezcano (II etapa)   8                           62                      30
3.  San Cristobal                                            150                       -
4.  W.saon                                                   100                       -
5.  Santa Rosa                                                50                      50
6.  Tenderi - Paraisito                                      100
7.  Nicarao                                                  I00
8.  Blandon  (Costa Rica)                                      35                     65
3.  San Judas - El Pilar                                      11                      43                      42                        4
10.  San Jose Oriental                                          12                     78                      10
Li.  Cuba (Gadala Maria)                                                               35                      51                       14
12.  Berta Caldercn (Andres C.)                                                        33                      67
13.  El Horizonte (C. Chamorro)                                                         25                      75
14.  Riguero Sur (Revolucion)    |                                                                             73                       27
15.  Santa Elena Fatima                                                                           j                                     50
16.  Santa Clara (Domitila L.)                                                                                 29                       71
17.  Ariel Darce (La Fuente)                                                                                     9 9                   61                      30
18.  Repartoa Chick 1,2,3,4                                              ,                 [                                           42                      5 j 
19.  Seminario - Miraflores                                                                                                             25                     75
20.  Silva - San Luis                       [                                                                  22                     |78
21.  Larreynaga                                                                             i1|
22.  El Tempisque (S. Shieble)                                                                                                        100
23.  Campo Bruce                                                                                                                      1 40                     60
24.  Alta Gracia                                                                                                                       60              1       40
25.  Santa Barbara                                                                                                                                            1'i
26.  Acahualinca                      j ____j                 j     j _ _ __                            j           j     j    |     j 40                      60
Figures are appraisal estimates of percentage of physical tompletien per semester.
Key;
AE = A;praisal Estimate
PE =Previous Revised Estimate
CE = Current Estimate
AP = Actual Progress



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
J104 Component
Monitoring Indicators for Neighborhood Upgrading
(Upgrading Works)
(Cumulative Figures)
(as of date)
Target in Expenditures
Semesters ($'OUO)                                                         Actual
Appraisal            1981                      1982                             1983                         1984                                         Million 
Estimates of Dates         Ist.              2nd.            3rd.              4th.            5th.               6th.         Construction   Construction Expenditures
Neighborhood                   Start   Compiete  ('000)  ML        (00OO)  ML    ('0OO)   ML    ('000)  ML          (0'OOO)  ML        (0'000)  ML            Started         Completed   (by JRlf)
1. Venezuela                        02-24-82  09-15-82                    3,772    992   2,122       558
2. Monsenior Lezeano (II etapa)   02-24-82  12-30-82                      4,531  1,0S9   5,537   1,331
3.  San Cristobal                     2-2a4-82  05-30-82                  2,513    925
4.  Waspan                          02-24-82  08-1,5-a2                   3,453  1,170   1,151       400
5.  Santa gosa                       11-15-81  12-30-82   803    330   1,629    670   9,057          840
6. Tenderi-Paraisito                03-01-82  06-31-82                    3,598  1,300
7. Nicarao                          07-02-82  12-30-82                                    5,356   1,500
S.  Blandon (Costa Rica)             03-01-82  11-31-82                   3,578  1,200   3,577   1,200
9.  San Judas--El Pilar              10-01-82  11-31-83                                   2,578      840   5,402   1,760   4,298   1,400
10. San Jose Oriental               06-01-82  02-31-83                      669    242   4,075   1,474   1,338         484
11. Cuba (Gadala Maria)             03-01-82  01-31-83                    6,149    954   9,394   t,457   1,537         239
12. Berta Calderon (Andres C.)    07-01-83  09-31-82                                                        5,521    1,474   2,720       726
13. El Horizonte (C.Chamorro)        10-01-82  06-31-82                   3,928  1,000
14. Riguero Sur (Revolucion)         01-01-83  06-31-83                                                     3,350    1,200
15. Santa Elena Fatima              06-01-83  10-30-83                                                        978      350   2,934   1,050
16. Santa Clara (Domitila I.)      07-02-83  01-31-84                                                                       4,658   1,651         758      269
17. Ariet Darce (La Fuente)         06-01-83  03-30-84                                                        814      280   4,882   1,680    3,463         840
18. Rptos. Shick 1, 2, 3, 4         08-01-83  05-30-84                                                                       3,787   1,300    4,787       1,300
19. Seminario-Miraflores            06-15-83  02-31-84                                                        544      131   6,452   1,560        778       189
20. Silva--San Luis                  08-15-83  12-30-83                                                                      3,340   1,120
21. Larreynaga                       01-01-84  03-30-84                                                                                         2,745       880
22. El Tempisque (S. shieble)        02-01-84  06-31-84                                                                                         3,371    1,300
23. Campo Bruce                      10-01-83  02-31-84                                                                       2,841      686    1,217        294
24. Alta-Gracia                      01-01-83  08-28-83                                                     5,994   1,419      896      291
25. Santa Barbara                    05-07-84  06-31-84                                                                                         1,119       400
26. Acahual Inca                     03-15-82  06-31-82                   1,508    653
0



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators for Storms Drainage Works
(Cumulative Figures)
(as of date)
Target in Expenditures
Semesters (9'000)
Actual
Appraisal                          1981                                1982                                                 Million e
Estimates of Dates              1st.              2nd.             3rd.               4th       Construction   Construction   Expenditures
Storm Drainage Channel          Start    Complete   (0'000)        ML   (0'000)    ML   (p'000)    ML    (e'O00)    ML           Started          Started          (by JRM)
1.  Cauce Waspan                  01/06/81   09/15/81   7,320    1,142   3,997          643
2.  25 Avenida Suroeste           01/15/81   09/30/81   3,154    1,300   3,777   1,302
3.  Cortina Jocote Dulce          10/15/81   12/31/81                          837
4.  Cauce Portezuelo              12/01/82   03/31/82                          556      175   1,667      525
5.  Cauce Jocote Dulce            01/02/82   04/30/82                                         1,966   1,000
6.  Cauce Ramal Nejapa            01/02/82   04/30/82                                         1,878   1,000
7.  Cortinas en Cauce             02/01/82   05/31/82                                         2,283
8.  Rampas en Caminos-Cauces    01/02/82   05/31/82                                              745
I- I L'



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pilot Municipal Development Component--SAMU
Indicators for Monitoring Implementation
1981 Semester                 1982 Semester                                    1983 Semester                   1984 Semester
II_                                    II                     I                      II_
AE   PE   CE   AP   AR   Pg   CE   AP   AE                  APCEEAP R PE   CE   AP   AE   PE   CE   AP   AR   FE   CE   AP
CHINANDEGA REGION
1.  Chinandega                             8                   25                    33                     33
2.  Chichigalpa                            -                   57                    18                     25
3.  Corinto-                                                  100                       
4.  El Viejo          8                                        22                    45                     25
LEON REGION
1.  Leon                                   19                  60                    21
2.  Paz Centro                                                 70                    30
3.  Nagarote                                                   50                    50
AMANAUA Region
1.  Tipitapa                                                   77                    21                      2
2.  Mateare                                                    40                    50                     10
3.  juigalpa475 
4.  El Rama                                                                          68                     32
MASAYA REGION
1.  Masaya                                30                   49                    21
2.  Diriamba                                                   36                    40                     19                      5
3.  Nandaime                                9                  66                    16                      9
4.  Nindiri                                10                  90
Figures are appraisal estimates of percentage completion per semester.
Key:
AE = Appraisal Estimate |
PE =  Previous Revised Estimate
CE = Current Estimate
AP =  Actual Progress



NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators for Management Component
Cumulative
(as of date)
Appraisal                              Apraisal Targets                                     Actual
Estimates                        ExpeRditure - Semesters (C '000)                                         Expenditures
Assistance to JRM                        Start       Complete             1981            1982                  1983      Started       Completed       (C$'000)
1.   Public Admin/Manag.               01/01/82    12/31/83                          138        138        138      146
2.   Public Finance/Taxes               01/01/82    12/31/83                         138        218        220      144
3.   Public Lawyer                      12/01/81    11/30/82                   20    280        260
4.   Systems Analyst                    01/01/82    06/30/83                         120        120        120
5.   Management Training                12/01/81    11/30/82                   20    120        100
6.   Staff Training                     01/02/82    06/30/83                          90        110        100
Assistance to SAMU
1.   Public Admin/Manag.               01/01/82    12/31/83                          240        260        260      200                                                             i.
2.   Public Finance /Taxes              01/01/82    12/31/83                         240        260        260      200
3.   Public Lawyer                      12/01/81    11/30/82                   20    120        loo
4.   Regional Planner                   01/01/82    06/30/83                         120        120        120
5.   Municipal Engineer                01/01/82    12/31/82                          120        120
6.   Systems Analyst                    01/01/82    12/31/83                         220        320        320      100
7.   Management Training               01/01/82    12/31/83                 l        300        460        300      220
8.   Staff Training                     01/02/82    06/30/83                          90        110        100
9.   Equipment
(i)   Vehicles                    01/01/82    06/30/82                 ,       360
(ii)  Office Equip/Instrum.       01/01/82    06/30/82                         500
0



_72-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status and Evaluation of the Urban Reconstruction Project
Credit 965-NI
Municipal Reconstruction Component
1.          This project was appraised in September 1979, approved by the
Board on November 21, 1979, and loan signature was January 4, 1980.   The
date of effectiveness was January 25, 1980.
2.         The project is designed to assist the Government in its recons-
truction efforts following the recent civil war.  The specific objectives
are to address emergency urban problems in six secondary cities most
affected by the war; to have a substantial employment and income-generating
impact; and to be implemented so that disbursements will be completed with-
in 18 months. The project consists of three components: municipal recons-
truction, rehabilitation of Managua's public transportation, and a program
to reactivate small-scale enterprises.
3.          The Municipal Reconstruction Component (US$8.0 million total,
US$6.8 million credit) is to repair and improve infrastructure, replace
destroyed physical plant and equipment, and reconstruct and rehabilitate
urban services  in the six cities.   The Ministry  of Housing and Human
Settlements (MINVAH) is responsible for implementation.
4.        The project has been implemented under unusual circumstances:  it
was developed rapidly in order to meet emergency reconstruction needs; was
prepared during a period when Government policy directions were still being
formulated, and is being implemented by institutions that have undergone
major restructuring following the civil war.  However,  implementation has
generally been satisfactory.
5.            A disbursement  shortfall in late 1980 was due to delays in
tendering for municipal equipment and vehicles. A tender package of US$1.6
million was prepared with 48 of the documents sold.  However, because of
the diversity of the items to be procured, bids for only about half of the
package were received.   The other items have now been procured by inter-
national shopping.   All contract  purchases were  signed  by  the  end  of
December 1980 and delivery began the first week in March 1981.
6.        Implementation problems have been:
(a) Start-up time for MINVAH to get project staff assigned and
organized to begin work (about four months);
(b) Setting up the technical field teams in each city (about four
months);
(c) Delays in preparing tender documents for a large, complex pro-
curement  of  municipal  vehicles  and  equipment   (about  two
months, plus a month's delay in awarding contracts); and



- 73 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
(d) Delays in design and construction of municipal markets resulting
from land titling.   New cadastral  and  legal procedures were
required for the nationalization of properties (about five
months).
7.          However, these delays can be traced to the unusual, post-war
period of the first six months of the project.  Overall, MINVAR has res-
ponded quickly to the problems and has performed well.  The regional teams
have been successful in transferring each municipality's needs into speci-
fic projects and have supervised the municipality's implementation.   Over
the past year, they have also helped define longer range plans for improve-
ments, and, in some cases, have already begun to help smaller, neighboring
towns resolve technical problems.  In some cases, the teams have developed
innovative solutions to reduce project costs.
8.         The Juntas de Reconstruccion Municipal (five-member administra-
tions of each municipality) have also responded remarkably well.   All
Juntas were new, consisting of individuals inexperienced in municipal
management.   However, for the purposes of administering these reconstruc-
tion efforts, the Juntas have been effective and are now consolidated.
Together with the regional technical teams, all the Juntas have been pre-
paring requests for additional subproject financing from SAMU.
9.         The Small-scale Enterprise Component (US$3.2 million) disbursed
fully between April and October 1980.  The component met its objective of
rapidly providing financing to rehabilitate small enterprises:   the vast
majority of loans were made for projects costing less than US$2,000 (83% of
projects, 37% of funds); about 44% of the funds were loans for projects in
commerce, 30% for services and 26% for industry. About 65% of the lending
was in urban centers other than Managua, particularly those most affected
by the hostilities; all four commercial banks within the reorganized bank-
ing system participated in the program with Banco de Credito Popular making
the most loans (45%) and Banco Nicaraguense lending the most funds (44%).
A significant finding, given the degree of uncertainty under which most of
these loans were made, is the high level of repayments.  Indeed, some 15
months after the program was effectively activated, a substantial amount of
second round lending has already taken place.   For the Municipal Recons-
truction Component (US$6.8 million), all the infrastructure works were
completed close to schedule.   Delays were, however,  experienced in the
construction of markets and municipal buildings, mainly due to unexpected
difficulties with land acquisition. Once construction began, progress has
been rapid and most of these structures can now be realistically expected
to be completed by the end of 1981. Early complications with the tendering
of municipal equipment and vehicles have also been resolved, although some
unanticipated international shopping has had to be resorted to.  Expend-
itures on this component as of June 1981 are estimated at about US$7 mil-
lion and disbursements at about US$5.8 million, one million short of full
disbursement.   Loan completion has been extended by six months and this
component is expected to be fully disbursed well within the new date.



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Experience with the Urban Transport Component has been mixed. The Managua
bus route paving and safety improvements program was implemented rapidly
and efficiently by the Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua. The US$1.0 mil-
lion allocated to these works has been fully disbursed.  More paving than
was originally anticipated has become necessary, however, in order to opti-
mize the usefulness of the works included in the project.   The Government
has borne most of the additional expenditures and the Ministry of Transport
is in the process of soliciting a final allocation from the Ministry of
Planning.   The consultants providing technical assistance to ENABUS, the
public bus company, began work in March 1981 after a long delay in con-
tracting, and are now fully integrated within ENABUS. The consultants' re-
commendations are being adopted: new accounting practices have been intro-
duced, a ticketing system is about to be introduced, inventory control has
been improved and the company is being decentralized into five separate
accounting and reporting units. Although it is too early to have financial
results to back this assertion, the operational efficiency of the company
has probably improved and a reduced dependence on public subsidies can
reasonably be expected.  The consultant to the Ministry of Transport (for
bus-route restructuring) has now been contracted and is expected to begin
work before the end of 1981, after a delay of more than one year.  Of the
US$1.0 million transferred to the FED for onlending to transport coopera-
tives for spare parts, about US$800,000 is either already or about to be
committed.  About 160 of the 220 buses financed by the loan have now been
received and the rest are expected before the end of the year.   Serious
difficulties are being experienced with the acquisition of maintenance
equipment and the parallel construction of bus servicing facilities.   The
equipment is to be supplied by Volvo, but early contract ratification
difficulties have been followed by specification revisions.   However,  a
delegation from the Ministry of Transport visited Sweden and has resolved
the problem; the first shipment has now arrived.  One of the five planned
maintenance facilities has been completed with Government funds.  The re-
maining four will be built with CABEI funds from a loan that was approved
in August.   Construction has started and all workshops are scheduled for
completion by mid-1982.



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
Page I of 12
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT GUIDELINES DISCUSSED AND LEFT WITH SAMU AND JRM
Review of SAMU Operations
I. BACKGROUND
(These provide a context within which the proposed activity will be
performed.)
II. OBJECTIVES
Establishment of SAMU as an institution with the following capabili-
ties:
A.   Exercise of control over the operations, administration and finance
of individual municipalities--mainly through the determination of
common standards.
B.   Maintenance of relationships with other government departments and
services exercising control over (or benefiting from) services
provided by municipalities. In particular, SAMU should become the
coordinator and communication channel through which municipalities
and government departments maintain ongoing relationships.
C.   Development and administration of an appropriate partnership between
government and the municipalities for the administration of public
services and the financing of these.
D.   Review and approval of development projects proposed by the munici-
palities for the purpose of permitting the municipality to raise
loans (from the municipal development fund or otherwise) or to
review other forms of financial support.
E.   Development and maintenance of overall development strategy for
municipalities, including technical and economic justification for
individual development plans, establishment of priorities and
relationships with national macro-economic concerns such as the
national development plan and requirements of the ministries of
finance and planning.



- 76-                             ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 12
F.   Provision of technical assistance and training to the municipalities,
with particular reference to:
1.   operation of current services;
2.   development planning;
3.   design and implementation of projects;
4.   general management; and
5.   accounting and financial control.
II. SCOPE OF WORK
A.   Review the activities of (selected) municipalities to determine
their needs for assistance from SAMU. Among the matters to be
examined would be:
1.   technical capability to:
a.   manage existing services; and
b.   implement development projects;
2.   financial capability, including availability of appropriate
skills (e.g. accounting) and the record of financial responsi-
bility (e.g. collection of revenues, service of debt and
adherence to budget);
3.   financial resources currently available to the municipality and
those potentially available following appropriate administrative
or legislative changes or improvements in administrative
capability;
4.   patterns and magnitude of physical and economic growth; and
5.   declared and potential goals and plans for their achievement.
B.   Assistance in the establishment at SAMU of the following staffing
capability:
1.   technical, economic, and spatial planning;
2.   project management;
3.   project design and implementation;
4.   financial investigation;
5.   training; and
6.   management of technical assistance.



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 12
C.   Development of capability to appraise project submissions--including
attention to:
1.   economic viability;
2.   least-cost feasible solution;
3.   technical soundness;
4.   financial viability:
a.   institutional;
b.   project.
IV. RESOURCES
A.   The review should be carried out by a team with expertise in the
following areas:
1.   engineering;
2.   planning;
3.   urban economics;
4.  municipal finance; and
5.   training.
B.   It is possible that a major part of this expertise can be provided
by INCAE. However, it would be necessary for INCAE to obtain the
services of specialists not currently available. Such expertise
would be required in municipal finance and might be made available
in cooperation with the firm of accountants reviewing the systems of
financial control.



ANNEX 8
-78-                            Page 4 of 12
GUIDELINES
Financial Reporting and Control
Municipalities
I. BACKGROUND
(These provide a context within which the proposed activity will be
performed. Refer to the expectation to begin with JRM.)
II. OBJECTIVES
A.   Preparation and presentation of financial statements, including
statements of income and expenditure and balance sheets which fairly
present financial results and condition.
B.   Establishment of sound systems of internal and external financial
control.
C.   Establishment of an accounting system adequate to support objectives
A and B and which clearly separates capital and recurrent activities.
D.   Establishment of sound systems of budgeting and budgetary control
which are fully integrated with the above systems of accounting,
financial control and financial reporting.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
A.   Complete audit of municipality's financial operations leading to the
presentation of an audit report which states whether and to what
content the resultant financial statements fairly present the
financial operations and financial condition. If no such opinion
can be given, the reasons for this should be explained in detail.
B.   Review of all systems of financial control, with particular reference
to those concerned with:
1.   determination of income due to the municipality;
2.   collection of income and follow-up of non-collection;
3.   control over expenditure;
4.   control over borrowing and the repayment of loans;
5.   control over the acquisition, use and disposal of fixed
assets; and
6.   control over the acquisition, use and disposal of inventories
of materials and movable equipment.



- 79-                                 ANNLX 8
Page 5 of 12
C.   Review of all systems of accounting, with particular reference to:
1.   separation of capital and recurrent transactions;
2.   accounts of fixed assets and inventories;
3.   adequate and appropriate analysis of income and expenditure;
4.   adequate and appropriate accounts of all persons and institu-
tions by whom money is owed to the municipality or to whom the
municipality owes money; and
5.   facilities for preparation of periodic summary financial
statements for management purposes and for publication.
D.   Design of adequate systems of accounting and financial control to
ensure the attainment of objectives in Part II (above) and with
particular reference to the matters defined to in Part III-B and
Part III-C (above).
E.   Design of adequate systems of budgeting and budgetary control, with
particular reference to the need for:
1.   corporate responsibility for the approval and implementation of
the budget as a whole;
2.   allocation of responsibility for budgetary control and adminis-
tration to heads of departments for specific services and
activities;
3.   separation of capital and recurrent transactions; and
4.   integration of the budgetary system with systems of accounting
and financial reporting.
F.   Implementation of proposed systems of accounting, financial control,
and budgetary control, with particular reference to:
1.   training and guidance of staff; and
2.   appropriate follow-up and remedial action.
IV. RESOURCES
A.   Firm of professional accountants practicing in Nicaragua supplemented
by expertise in municipal finance, probably from abroad.
B.   Representative(s) from the office of the auditor-general--to ensure
consistency with government requirements and to provide training of
the auditor-general's staff.



-80 -                               ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 12
V. TIMING AND METHODOLOGY
A.   It would be expected that the work would be staged as follows:
1.   audit, together with review of systems of accounting and
financial control;
2.   issue of audit report and related management letter;
3.   review of audit report and management letter by municipality
and appropriate government departments (e.g. JRM, SAMU, Ministry
of Finance, and auditor-general);
4.   decision to authorize original accounting firm or another
(as appropriate) to design new systems;
5.   review of proposed systems by the same bodies as in para. 3;
and
6.   implementation, training, and follow-up.
B.   Recognition should be given to the fact that municipal accounting
requirements may differ from those of commercial accounting.
In particular:
1.   depreciation of fixed assets, being a non-funds item, may be
substituted by provisions for amortization of debt and/or the
establishment of renewal funds;
2.   provision for the repayment of loans due on maturity may
require the establishment and interim investment of sinking
funds; and
3.   legal requirements, or financial prudence, may require the
establishment of separate funds for specific transactions.
C.   Appropriate provision should be made in the accounting system
to ensure that the effects of inflation, particularly upon the
costs of renewal of fixed assets, are duly allowed for.



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 12
GUIDELINES
LEGISLATIVE REVIEWA
Municipal Operations
I. BACKGROUND
(These provide a context within which the proposed activity will
be performed.)
II. OBJECTIVES
A.   Review of legislation under which municipalities operate, with
particular reference to:
1.   opportunities and requirements for joint operations by more
than one municipality;
2.   financial control and management;
3.   revenue resources.
B.   Preparation of proposals for legislative changes to enable the roles
of municipalities to be more clearly defined, together with revenue
sources and financial controls and management.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
A.   Review of legislation providing for common services to be adminis-
tered jointly by two or more authorities. This might be done by the
establishment of joint "empresas." It would be appropriate to draw
up a simple model "charter" for the operation of such "empresas."
B.   Review of legislation covering financial management and control,
with particular reference to:
1.   services for which it would be appropriate to establish a
municipal "empresa" or a separate fund;
2.   audit of municipal accounts by competent independent auditors;
3.   approvals by government departments of e.g.:
a.   borrowing;
b.   capital expenditure;
c.   tax rates; and
d.   charges for services;



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 12
4.   financial regulations and other systems of internal financial
control;
5.   public accountability, including the holding of budget hearings
and publication of financial statements;
6.   establishment of a management and finance committee, to which
all proposals having financial implications would be routinely
submitted, prior to approval by the "juntas municipales."
7.   definition of circumstances under which the municipality might
borrow and the controls relating thereto, including:
a.   provision for debt service and (as appropriate) for
repayment by establishment of sinking funds;
b.   security for repayment of loans---preferably a mortgage of
taxes, charges, and other revenues.
C.   Review of legislation covering revenue sources, with particular
reference to:
1.   revenues usually levied, collected and retained by the munici-
pality for its own operations, including:
a.   property taxes--matters to be considered include:
(1) valuation:
(a) methodology of valuation;
(b) establishment of valuation rolls; and
(c) appeals against individual assessments;
(2)  taxation:
(a) determination of levy, differentiation of levy
(if appropriate) among various classes of
taxpayers and (if appropriate) granting of
exemptions;
(b) determination of whetiher tax will be levied upon
owners or occupiers; and
(c) procedures for tax-collection and remedies for
non-payment.



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 12
b.   betterment taxes--for environmental upgrading affecting
individual properties:
(1) method of assessment of amounts due and whether in
lump sum or annually;
(2) methods of apportionment, including resolution of
controversial issues such as corner lots; and
(3) procedures for tax-collection and remedies for
non-payment.
c.   charges for services, including:
(1) principles on which based--such as full cost recovery,
partial cost recovery or mere contributions towards
costs;
(2) allocation to a common fund or to special funds
and/or "empresas;" and
(3) procedures for recovery of charges and revenues for
non-payment;
d.   licenses--consider whether proper emphasis given to
authorization of activity being licensed as opposed to
collection of revenues;
e.   other revenues--such as fines, etc.--establish proper
legal basis for their imposition and collection.
2.   Revenues most efficiently collected by systems controlled by
central government but partly or wholly assigned to municipali-
ties. These might include:
a.   sales taxes;
b.   vehicle taxes;
c.   public utility surcharges;
d.   income tax surcharge; and
e.   taxes on professional activities (assignment may be on
basis of population or other parameters).



-84-
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 12
3.   Government grants--based on formula or resulting from negotiation
between Government and municipal representatives.
a.   general grants--based on:
(1) specific needs--relative to other authorities; and
(2) shortfall of resources--relative to other authorities;
b.   equalization grants--for purpose of correcting inequities
among various authorities;
c.   specific grants--covering services which government may
wish to support and/or encourage or which may have national
as well as local objectives (e.g. public health and major
roads). Determination of grants may be on basis of, e.g.:
(1) unit costs;
(2) percentage of cost; or
(3) lump sum.
IV. RESOURCES
Necessary expertise for the above review may be provided by a team,
one or more of whom may have more than one area of expertise, which may
overlap with that of others. It would be helpful to have a blend of
Nicaraguan and foreign expertise, as follows;
A.   Legislative draftsmanship;
B.   Municipal law;
C.   Municipal finance;
D.   Municipal administration; and
E.   Property valuation.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 12
GUIDELINES
Operation of Municipal Development Fund
I. BACKGROUND
(These provide the context within which the proposed activity would
operate.)
II. OBJECTIVES
Establishment and operation of a Municipal Development Fund to be
administered by the National Development Bank, to operate according to
the following principles:
A.   Financial soundness, viability and integrity, including the meeting
of all its external obligations to lenders and equity-holders.
B.   Provision of loan funds to municipalities at interest rates which
are financially viable and at repayment terms related to the working
lives of project assets financed, after such projects have been
appraised and approved by SAMU.
C.   Recovery of all loans and interest thereon in a timely manner.
D.   Seeking to continually expand the fund's financial resources from:
1.   internally generated funds;
2.   loans;
3.   equity contributions; and
4.   repayment of loans by municipalities.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
A.   Establishment of management board for fund operations and financial
criteria for approval of loans.
B.   Establishment of procedures and staffing capability for the
examination of individual loan applications, following approval by
SAMU.
C.   Establishment of financial objectives within which the fund would
operate including:



-86-                                ANNEX 8
Page 12 of 12
1.   total capitalization and relationship between debt and equity;
2.   level of operations in terms of:
a.   total outstanding loans;
b.   amount of lending in any one financial period;
c.   number and value of loans to any individual municipality;
and
d.   amount of working capital;
3.   level of profitability in terms of:
a.   earnings spread;
b.   rate of return on total assets; and
c.   net income.
D.   Implementation of accounting system and of related systems of
internal financial control.
E.   Establishment of arrangements for internal and external audit.
IV. RESOURCES
A.   Proposals should be prepared by a team representing the following
institutions:
1.   SAMU;
2.   National Development Bank;
3.   Ministry of Finance;
4.   External Aid Department; and
5.   External auditors.
B.   The team would probably employ a single consultant to examine
requirements and to make recommendations to the team.



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Background Documents
Al. Analysis of Damages Resulting from the 1979 Civil War, MINVAH,
August 1979.
A2. Indicators of the Construction Industry for the City of Managua,
Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos, November 1980.
A3. Second Census of Income and Employment in Four Cities of Nicaragua
INCAE, NI/pe - 033, December 1976.
A4. Selected tables and statistics from Encuesta de Hogares, Household
Census Survey, INEC, September 1980.
A5. Report on study for: Programs for Decentralization and Development
of the Pacific Region, OAS, 1978.
A6. Study of Housing and Urban Development, BAVINIC/PADCO, UNDP Project
NIC/78 - 002/A/42, 1978.
A7. Analysis for Spatial Development and Housing, Direccion de
Planificacion Territorial, MINVAH, August 1980.
A8. Evaluation of Projects in the Urban Sector, MINVAH, December 1980.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the JRM Component
Bl. Project Proposals--JRM, January 1981.
B2. ProDosal for the Study Team to a Master Storm Drainage Plan for the
City of Managua, Direccion de Operaciones Municipales, JRM, April
1980.
B3. Census and Survey of Low-Income Neighborhoods of Managua, JRM,
December 1980.
B4. Organization and Functions of the Technical and Planning Divisions
of JRM, JRM, December 1980.
B5. Technical Specifications for Storm Drainage Works and Neighborhood
Upgrading, JRM, September 1980.
B6. Plan de Arbitrios, Managua's Schedule of Fees and Taxes, 1980.



- 88 -                              ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
C.   Selected Reports, Studies and Working Papers Related to the SAMU
Component
Cl.  Project Proposals, SAMU, January 1981 and July 1980.
C2.  Law Creating Local Municipal Boards, January 31, 1980.
C3.  Financial Analysis of Six Participating Municipalities, SAMU,
February 1981.
C4.  Financial Analysis and Subproject Profiles for First Year of
Implementation, SAMU, March 1981.
C5.  Guidelines for Selection of Cities, SAMU, July and November,
1980.
C6.  Manual and Reporting Proposal for SAMU Financial Operations,
SAMU, November 1980.
C7.  Feasibility Studies, Phototype Markets, SAMU, April 1980.
C8.  Spatial Development Strategy--Document 1, Criteria for Determining
Priority Investments, MINVAH, August 1980.
C9.  Detailed Studies and Planning for Participating Municipalities,
MINVAH/SAMU, 1980.






_____________________________________   ______________________                                                                                                                      M D   15696~~~~~~~IBR   1569
NICARAGUA                                                                                          09                                              so' iAYIbSM
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT                                                                              0 o N  0 U k 'A ts                                                              -o                                                    0
7Munikipq l Infrastructure   pvemontr*
aon Atherkarn Hbqtaby                                                                                                              D
:Mob' Roved rpas                3 S              9ma It   polrrterlolc  CintesO j                                                                           L-r os
-At-ewtEher 'odds (raooil)fe                                ~ 0
-   Dry weIhorro                    __      Aro    aroJi    fnc5t m pm,t io           i                   :
wairoods                          (COOr    AOfcr     t flWc Mra Iin-rtror                               '-
v Pnircip pofrts                                                                                                                                                                                                      CArOr  MISQUITOS i
:~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                         J\ '           . tt. o!: |::    \:t    e', 
MA,, rtOrlVIisrO  trpr                                                                                        it                                        ,              4    Con
ai ;;    om,            \                                                 w                                           _,,;                                                rurOlo
4-    Sep doe ry airports." '/
.rad rwoteos                                                                                           S.C )
ape, nqfPo.,co  ob.ra-p
1:   {  Sr;nos r  i l     r        m          d      :     ?          l 2    J&oro   r                                  atmlor                                  ut                        4                       N3
S-f.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~l"                                                                                                 7--
~~~~~4'~~~~~~ ~                 MOTUGitDA                                                  . ;   
SarraMr--                          0       Mroa                                                                                        ut  0   0
elrEs   \  2a   4a  >    14   :   El Asrxilro  /N'n''ii  Se   ;;e  /  ';NETIPe            /     .,;   1    Sn,,eac dcl 'orle 
JIOTEGA                        V
;ivt                  .<      i      :      k     t                                                                      .. _,\r                                    tbI\;                        Porr Isabelr:iE
trO; AALA  //1/Sc77rc'fr  -                5A                              r - l                  s            r          l          2 _
tEdor4Nf46  f >rib br r s                                                      1 ,'O'o,,MATAGALP                                                         010
c,  ?r)NAI.DEGA--                                                                                     -                Gocor~~~S., L~
StDsS~     ~     (( rIC4oIU  a        poH                ;>rO-                              osdLrR'0or ,,                                   Nacoaa,\ , : 00  ;      i   \    : >   o  un eN.
So oar G.acdes .    io'alor ~ ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ S.n. D-n
I  Pca'cSord.ro                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipALPA 
2o0      A0       1       O        0(0C 
M0ro5oo~~~~~a   / 'SoIncO.  I ~      ~           ~          ~         ". 
cik-j'2t                                                                                     NAME(~~~~Et oil. .
sot  ttO5CPj0 14>         4                                                                -                                                                                               a-'  No"    :t.  0::A\:  i  \      i:A;00irF,E
FINA  ,--<.                                                                                                                              ' E0 ,- 32  :l   e,Xru  ::  :  i l:   fj \ :: ;1   g  llR zu,:   ::. :n::  W  ;      :
C/i>  cosa    >c5>~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  tA.tSD~^0ENnA'
PICA-KA                                                                                                                               ATr~oao
P O N R O r O ' >   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .5                              4 k                                               8 4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d






_   __ _______________________________________________        _       _ __________________             _ _______     _ ______________________        _ ____________                                                                  IBRD   15697
APRIL 1981
SANDINO
SATELLITE TOWN        \
ENT A  B                                     Vf,. H- '.F .
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NR
NICARAGUA
'MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
M-anagua Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading
PROJECT
LOW-INCOME NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENTS
| -a' s.v.sa'seoaeon .  H     /                   ; uf v - t    _/     -STORM DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
-     NATURAL DRAINAGE CHANNELS
VELOCITY CHECK DAMS
~~~~ALA                                                                                                  I                                  rzUZ   LOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-INCOME NEIGHBIORHOODS IMPROVED IN 1980
H.ONDLIRAS                                                                                             Z                                                                                              S )/ .N . .  W- ----- ;-- A I ' J EXISTING URBAN DEVELOPMENT
SAUVA000    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-< CITY SUE-CENTERS IUNDER CONSTRUCTIONI
SALVADGR{-}                                  J                                         |N\AAGALOCAL SHOPPING CENTERS (UNDER CONST.)
.    AREA OF INFLUENCE
MAJOR ROADS
COSTR A      10      0|                                                                                            ,              \                                                    REDENR IFICATION BOUNDARY
.  .   SI; PANAMA  }                                                                                                                                                                      L KILOME IEIRS
2D8                                                                                                       _



