Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FtL
Report No. P-3169-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cordoba (¢)
US$1.00        =    10.00
US$0.10        =    1.00
US$100,000     =  ¢ 1.0 million
UNITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 Manzana = 0.699 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
BCN      =  Central Bank of Nicaragua
(Banco Central de Nicaragua)
BND      =  National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
CABEI    =  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
FDM      = Municipal Development Fund
(Fondo para Desarrollo Municipal)
FED      =  Special Development Fund
(Fondo Especial de Desarrollo)
FINAPRI  =  Preinvestment Fund
(Financiera de Preinversion)
FIR      =  International Reconstruction Fund
(Fondo Internacional para la Reconstruccion)
IDB      =  Inter-American Development Bank
(B'anco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INAA     =  Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
INE      =  Nicaraguan Energy Institute (formerly ENALUF)
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Energia)
JRM      =  Managua Municipal Reconstruction Board
(Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua)
MINCON   =  Ministry of Construction
(Ministerio de la Construccion)
MT       = Ministry of Transport
(Ministerio de Transporte)
MINVAH   =  Ministry of Housing and Human Resources
(Ministerio de La Vivienda y Asentamientos Humanos)
SAMU     =  Secretariat for Municipal Affairs
(Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales)
USAID'    =  United  States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NICARAGUA               FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Nicaragua.
Beneficiaries:        Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua (JRM) and Secreta-
ria de Asuntos Municipales (SAMU).
Amount:               US$16 million equivalent.
Terms:                20 years including 5 years of grace at 11.6% interest
per annum.
Relending Terms:      The proceeds of the loan would be onlent on the follow-
ing terms:
Interest                   Including
Per Annum        Terms        Grace
in %          (Years)      (Years)
Government via
Banco Central to
JRM (US$13.2 million)       15              20            3
Government via              same
Banco Central to            as IBRD         20            3
SAMU (US$2.1 million)       rate
SAMU/FED to
Participating             14             10            3
Banks
Participating
Banks to                  15             10            3
Municipalities
The proceeds of the loan for technical assistance    -
(US$0.7 million) would be onlent to JRM and SAMU,
through the Central Bank on a grant basis.
Prolect
Description:      The proposed project would:
(a) assist the Managua Municipal Reconstruction Board
(JRM) to upgrade and protect from flood and storm
damage the basic transport infrastructure in 26 low
income neighborhoods in the city of Managua;
(b) assist the Secretariat of Municipal Affairs (SAMU)
to implement a parallel pilot program,including pro-
tection of basic transport infrastructure in 15 muni-
cipalities in the country's main areas of production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(c) provide technical assistance to strengthen the
effectiveness, institutional framework and management
capacity of JRM and SAMU.
Financing of municipal development in a country which has
recently restructured its municipal governments involves
risks. However, the project has been designed in a way to
reduce these risks. The bulk of the proceeds are to be
channeled through JRM, the most experienced and effective
municipality. SAMU, a recently established agency, and
the other local governments will participate only in a
limited part of the project, as a pilot exercise on which
to build their capacity to deal effectively with urban
growth. All institutions would receive technical assist-
ance aimed at strengthening their capacity to implement
this and future projects. Works to be financed are not
complicated and are standardized; they are similar to, and
in fact a continuation of programs financed through the
Bank's Urban Reconstruction Project which is being
successfully implemented. Another risk derives from the
weakness in financial management and control which could
lead to delays and/or the possibility that JRM revenue
collections may not meet projections. However, the
assumptions used in calculating revenues are confirmed
by recent experience and the technical assistance proposed
is designed to minimize this risk.
Estimated Costs: 1/
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Local     Foreign       Total
Managua Improvements                   5.6         8.4         14.0
Pilot Municipal Development            0.7         1.5          2.2
Municipal Management                   0.3         0.5          0.8
Base Cost                            6.6        10.4         17.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.3         0.5          0.8
Price Contingencies                    2.0         3.0          5.0
Total                             8.9       13.9         22.8
Financing Plan:
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Local     Foreign       Total
Bank                                  2.1        13.9        16.0
Government                            0.8          -          0.8
JRM                                   5.7          -           5.7
SAMU/Municipalities                   0.3          -          0.3
Total                                 8.9        13.9        22.8
1/   Excluding taxes and import charges.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Bank FY1982       1983         1984     1985
(1st Semester)
Annual             3.2         5.8         5.7       1.3
Cumulative         3.2         9.0        14.7      16.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         17% (for Managua Municipal Infrastructure Upgrading
component only, which is about 82% of total project cost)
Appraisal Report:   3465c-NI dated December 11, 1981






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$16 million to the Republic of Nicaragua for
a Municipal Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace with an interest rate of 11.6% per annum. The
borrower, through the Central Bank of Nicaragua (BCN), would onlend US$13.2
million of the loan to the Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua (JRM) at a
rate of interest of 15% and on terms of 20 years including three years of
grace, and US$2.1 million to the Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales (SAMU),
at the same interest rate as it pays to the Bank on terms of 20 years
including three years of grace. SAMU with the assistance of Fondo Especial
de Desarollo (FED) would onlend this amount through participating banks to
municipalities. The balance of the loan, US$0.7 million, would be passed
on through BCN to SAMU on a grant basis for technical assistance. The Govern-
ment would assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank economic report "Nicaragua - the Challenge of Reconstruction"
(3524-NI) was circulated to the Board in late October 1981. The report was
discussed with the Government in draft form during August 1981. The
Nicaraguan authorities agree with its assessment of the current situation
and of the chief difficulties facing the economic recovery of the country;
they have also expressed their agreement with many of its recommendations.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Nicaragua is a country rich in land resources.  Agriculture represents
about one-quarter of GDP, employs nearly half of the labor force and generates
about 70% of merchandise exports. The country is divided into three distinct
agricultural areas. The Pacific Zone, where about 60% of the nation's 2.5
million people live, is characterized by two types of farming--a great number
of small farms grow basic grains with traditional technology, while a few
large plantations use modern technology and specialize in cotton and sugarcane;
the mountainous Central District is devoted primarily to the production of
coffee and livestock; and the extensive, underpopulated Atlantic Plain holds
a largely unutilized potential for forestry, tree crops and livestock.
4.        The small, open economy has had a record of high economic growth
(5.7% average per year in the three decades prior to 1975) and very low rates of
inflation prior to 1972. Population has been increasing at an annual rate of
about 3%. Income growth has basically been the result of the expansion and
the adoption of modern methods of production for commodity exports--primarily
coffee, cotton, beef, sugar, and shrimp. Industry has been growing in impor-
tance; before the recent war the industrial sector represented approximately
25% of GDP. Exports of manufactured goods, mainly to the Central American
Common Market, were about a quarter of total exports. This substantial growth
was not accompanied by parallel social development. Life expectancy and adult
literacy rates were among the lowest in Latin America. The limited avail-
ability of key public services, such as education and health, reflected in part
budgetary stringency dictated by insufficient revenues.



- 2 -
5.        The armed struggle that preceded the establishment of the Govern-
ment of National Reconstruction in July 1979, was extremely costly. The
war seriously damaged the nation's industrial productive capacity and had
disastrous effects on the financial system. Public finance deteriorated, the
banking system was bankrupted and massive capital flight depleted reserves.
The new Government embarked simultaneously on the tasks of economic recovery
and social transformation, and has indicated that it will maintain a mixed
economy in which the public sector will not only be directly involved in the
regulation of the economic process, but will also assume responsibility for
many directly productive activities. In addition to confiscating land holdings
and industrial and commercial enterprises, mainly those of the Somoza family,
the Government has nationalized the banking system, the insurance companies,
foreign trade, and the mining sector. The public sector's direct participation
in agricultural production is about 18%, in manufacturing 31%, and in the
service sectors more than 50%. The total share of the public sector in the
country's GDP has risen from 15 to 40%.
6.        The Government machinery has been extensively reorganized:  a number
of new ministries have been created; new institutions have been developed;
and practically all government and autonomous public agencies have undergone
reorganization. In particular, the financial system has been totally restruc-
tured and ministries have been established to handle the nationalized portions
of the agricultural, industrial and trade sectors. The Government is now headed
by a three member Junta of National Reconstruction that is backed by the
Directorate of the Sandinista Front of National Liberation. An emergency
program was adopted as soon as the war ended; a formal program of economic
reactivation was drafted for 1980; and an economic plan of "austerity and
efficiency" was prepared for the year 1981.
The Nicaraguan Economy During the First Year and a Half of the New Regime
7.        The struggle which culminated'in the toppling of the Somoza regime
left Nicaragua with a highly damaged productive apparatus. Manufacturing
production declined by nearly one-third in 1979 as a result of the destruction
of factories and inventories and the loss of managerial personnel; during the
first half of the year private investment shrank to a minimum, and construc-
tion nearly stopped. Agricultural production was also seriously affected.
Urban unemployment reached alarming levels. Real GDP dropped by more than 25%
in 1979, in addition to the decline of 7% it had suffered in 1978. Although in
1980 GDP recovered by 10%, real income forgone from 1977 through 1980 surpassed
two billion dollars when measured against an historic trend line.
8.        The drop in exports was most significant.  Exports constitute
one-third of GDP, and are the chief driving force of the Nicaraguan economy.
Although export revenues derived from the 1978/79 crop were fairly high, much
of the receipts left the country as capital flight. The 1979/80 agricultural
season was disrupted by the war. Farmers failed to plant cotton, and produc-
tion and exports of basic grains, coffee, sugar and beef dropped substantially
as well. Although high international prices of sugar and cotton offset
some of the losses in export volume, total export receipts from goods and
services decreased by US$220 million between 1978 and 1980--in real terms a
drop of about 48%.



- 3 -
9.        Given the drastic drop in domestic supply and conditions of financial
insolvency, both on the national and international fronts, the new Government
faced a very difficult recovery period. Efforts were made to increase domestic
supply, but an expansionary monetary and fiscal policy contributed to the
creation of excess demand. Much of the shortfall in production was compensated
for through an increase in imports which, along with price controls, kept
inflation from being explosive. Consumer prices rose by nearly 30% in 1980.
(December to December) a rate much lower than the 70% increase reached in 1979.
In 1981 consumer prices are expected to rise by 25%.
10.       The rise in imports was made possible by a draw down of reserves and
by a generous inflow of external financing. During the first two years following
the war (until June 30, 1981), international organizations and bilateral agencies
provided Nicaragua with substantial amounts of external assistance. Total
commitments of loans and trade credits amounted to about US$1,120 million; total
disbursements from these and prior loans were US$716 million. Among the major
multilateral lenders the IDB committed US$193 million (including US$45 million
from the Venezuelan Trust Fund), the World Bank Group US$91 million (of which
US$37 million was IDA), and CABEI US$36 million. Bilateral loan commitments
and lines of credit were received from USAID US$73 million, Latin America US$258
million, Western Europe US$97 million, socialist countries US$132 million, and
Libya and OPEC US$120 million. Donations granted in cash and goods during this
period amounted to an additional US$306 million (US$223 disbursed), and this
estimate excludes considerable direct technical assistance.
11.       During 1980, fiscal revenues were very high, mainly as a result of
new taxes and more efficient collection. Nevertheless, overall fiscal policy
was expansionary. Although capital expenditures were lower than budgeted,
current expenditures amounted to 2.3 times those of 1978, greatly surpassing
current revenues. The overall deficit of the Central Government rose to US$220
million in 1980, more than 50% of total revenues and 10% of GDP. Credit expan-
sion in 1980 was substantial. Most of the private sector credit was channelled
towards short-term loans, but two-thirds of the expanded credit went to the
public sector.
12.       Following the typical pattern of small, open economies, this large
increase in both Government deficit and domestic credit quickly leaked out
into imports, particularly from Central America. The resource gap was US$458
million, equivalent to over one fifth of GDP and almost equal to the total
exports of goods and services. In spite of the strong inflow of grants and
long-term external financing, net reserves dropped by almost US$200 million
in 1980 to about minus US$400 million. At the end of the year gross reserves
were about US$80 million, less than one month's import bill.
A Preliminary Assessment of 1981 and Short-Term Prospects
13.       Basic grain production increased substantially in the 1980/81
crop year. The prospects for agricultural commodity exports are fair. The
value of total exports in current terms for 1981 is projected to be about
one-fifth higher than in 1980. The 1980/81 coffee crop was about 15% below
the record 1978/79 crop. Beef production and exports are greatly depressed.
The cotton area planted, a crucial variable in the country's economic re-
covery process, was approximately 135,000 manzanas, including 21,000 now
owned by the Government. Although this represents nearly a tripling of the
area planted in 1979, it is less than half of the peak area planted before the



- 4 -
war. The private sector is hesitant to expand cotton production, particularly
in the lower-yield lands,and labor shortages during harvest season caused
losses in terms of output and product quality.
14.       The prospects for the industrial sector in 1981 are only fair.
Although it is expected that production in most of the plants under Government
control will surpass 1978 levels, the recovery of private industry continues
to be slow, and exports to Central America have halved. Many large- and
medium-size private entrepreneurs lack the confidence needed to invest and to
expand production. Prospects for the mining sector--now nationalized--are,
more promising. Gold is becoming a major export commodity for Nicaragua.
Its value will equal about US$35 million in 1981.
15.       Because of the untenability of the 1980 balance of payments deficits,
a stronger effort is being made to cut imports. The expected reductions are
being made in food and other nondurable consumer goods. On the other hand,
imports of fuel and particularly of capital goods are increasing. Even if the
potential for export recovery is fully realized, the balance of payments
picture will continue to be delicate for some time. The required net external
capital flows of medium- and long-term loans during the next few years will
continue to be high--about US$350 million dollars per year.
Longer-Term Prospects
16.       Nicaragua is favored by a number of conditions conducive to a high
rate of economic growth: the country has a low population density and the
available land resources are of good quality and plentiful--in fact, there
exists much undeveloped frontier land; the core of the transport infrastructure
network is well established; and commodity exports have been more diversified
than those of most of the other Central American countries. In addition,
the Government is giving high priority to productive sectors and to projects
that will generate foreign exchange. It also strongly favors rural development,
and the successful nationwide literacy program is expected to broaden the
long-term development potential of the country.
17.       At the same time there are a number of obstacles to the attainment of
a higher growth path. First and foremost, there is the havoc caused by the war.
Its consequences will linger throughout this decade. At the end of 1980 total
long- and medium-term external public debt was US$1.5 billion (not including
debt arrears), or twice the level of exports and about 70% of GDP. Debt service
in 1981 will be about 27% of export earnings in spite of a favorable
rescheduling of much commercial debt that defers amortization and some interest
obligations. A high rate of GDP growth was possible in 1980 and will probably
be repeated in 1981, only because production was recovering from the low level
at which it had fallen at the end of the war. In subsequent years, however,
it will be necessary to raise both the share of total investment to GDP as
well as that pertaining to investment in directly productive activities. Much
of the problem lies in the low rate of private investment. Public investment
is already high, more than 10% of GDP. Private investment must at
least equal this level if satisfactory growth rates of GDP are to be attained.
Another challenge is the energy sector. The country will depend for a number
of years on costly, imported fossil fuel as a principaL source of electrical



- 5 -
energy. Petroleum imports now represent about one-fifth of total goods
imports. Hydroelectric power development has lagged in Nicaragua; geothermal
exploitation is just beginning, and the biomass potential has not yet been
ascertained.
18.       Perhaps the greatest challenge will be the ability of the Government
to lead the country through the prolonged, difficult recovery period. The
policy of restoring past levels of real consumption through monetary and
fiscal expansion and deficits in the current account must be substituted by
one of growing investment, increased revenues from public enterprises, high
productivity, and all this within the framework of social transformation to
which the Government is committed. Success in this transformation--and this
was stressed in the recent discussions with the Government--, will require the
adoption of a coherent and stable system of policies, consistent with the
mixed-economy model which the Government advocates and with both the most
urgent needs of the country and its long-term development goals. To this
aim, (a) priority must be given to revitalizing the private sector through
an effective system of incentives and, in general, a clear delineation of
its area of responsibilities in accordance with previously established, ade-
quate "rules of the game" arrived at in an appropriate economic decision-making
process; and (b) a systematic effort must be undertaken or strengthened to
improve substantially the efficiency of the public sector (Central and Local
Governments, and Public Enterprises). Reconciliation between the much needed
Government austerity plan and its minimum development targets will require
strict adherence to priority expenditures--such as investments in short-gestation
productive activities with a positive impact on the balance of payments--
compression of non-developmental expenditures, and postponement of ambitious
and costly long-term development projects and--however painfully--of some
social expenditures.   It is also urgent that domestic inflation be brought
firmly under control, in the context of well designed fiscal and monetary
policies, including adjustment in public tariffs, reduction of Central Bank
credit to the public sector and a realistic exchange rate.
19.       As a consequence of the war, Nicaragua's per capita income dropped
from US$840 for 1978 to US$660 for 1979. The country has, and is likely to
have for a number of years, serious balance of payments problems. Until now it
has confronted social, economic, and financial challenges in a pragmatic
manner. The balance of payments projections attached to this President's
Report are predicated on a determined    effort to promote exports, restrain
domestic expenditure growth, and further revitalize the productive sectors of
the economy. Even so, Nicaragua will continue for a number of years to
require large inflows of concessional funds. As of December 1980 Nicaragua's
external debt was US$1,503 million. Of this amount US$134 million was owed
to the Bank Group including US$92 million to the Bank. The Bank's share of
Nicaragua's debt service was 8.9%. This percentage is not expected to rise
significantly over the next few years. The Government has taken a responsible
attitude with respect to its public external debt and is meeting IBRD/IDA debt
service. It has successfully rescheduled its past public debt and the debt of
the recently nationalized banks with foreign commercial banks. It is presently
negotiating the debt of the new public enterprises as well as debts with some
bilateral donors. It is in light of these actions and of the Government's
stated intention to follow adequate policies that Nicaragua   is considered
creditworthy for the modest amounts of IBRD lending proposed. Concessionary



assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of individual projects
will be needed to ease the transition period until the economy has recovered
fully from the war and the productivity of its capital stock has regained
normal levels.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
20.       Nicaragua to date has received twenty-seven Bank loans and five IDA
credits for a total of US$275.6 million. Of these five were for agriculture,
one for industrial credit, five for transportation, nine for electric power,
five for water supply including one for sewerage, two for education, four to
finance earthquake and war reconstruction, and one to finance preinvest-
ment studies. So far twenty-three projects have been completed. Performance
audit reports have been issued for a port project, for an agricultural credit
project and for the second Managua Water Supply Project. The report on the
water supply projects (Ln. 808-NI and Cr. 389-NI) indicates that these two
projects were successfully completed and that their principal objectives were
met in spite of very difficult circumstances arising from the earthquake of
1972. The audit report for the port project (Ln. 879-NI and 879-1-NI) indi-
cates that the project was successfully implemented, but with substantial
modifications, a two-year delay and a cost increase of about 260%. The
project's justification was largely unaffected, because of an increase in
traffic and greater than expected unit benefits. The audit on the Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 943-NI) reports that while disbursements under this loan
moved slowly at first, funds were committed and disbursed on schedule.
Project objectives were generally achieved and inter alia, the project helped
increase meat production. The report also points out, however, that the benefi-
ciaries of the subloans were generally much larger than had been planned.
Annex II contains a summary statement on Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981 and a note on the execution of ongoing
projects.
21.       Because of major fiscal difficulties during 1978 and the disruptive
effects of the war in the latter part of 1978 and in most of 1979, the Bank
did not lend to Nicaragua between early 1978 and the end of 1979. In mid-1979
it was concluded that meaningful project activities and adequate supervision
of ongoing projects were no longer possible. Therefore, the Board was in-
formed on July 16 (R79-192) that no further disbursements on existing loans
and credits would be made. The Government of Nicaragua was subsequently
replaced by a Junta of National Reconstruction. The Junta requested emergency
assistance from the international community to facilitate recovery from the
economic disaster caused by the war as well as by large outflows of capital.
The Bank responded by restructuring projects on which substantial balances
remained undisbursed and by making them more responsive to emergency needs.
Also an emergency loan/credit package was extended for agricultural and
industrial rehabilitation and for urban reconstruction. The restructuring
of projects was completed in October 1979, at which time the suspension of
1/   Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
for the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit Project, approved by the
Board on June 25, 1981.



- 7 -
disbursements was rescinded. The emergency operations were signed in January
1980. As described in Annex II, except for some institutional and/or financial
problems with the Ninth Power and the Managua Water Supply III Projects and
possible delays in the technical assistance component of the Urban Reconstruc-
tion Project, implementation performance under the restructured and emergency
projects is good.
22.       In the past, the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts;
(b) to help build viable institutions in key sectors, such as water supply
and electric power; and (c) to help spread the benefits of growth to more
people through lending for projects such as education, rural sanitation,
agriculture and water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the recon-
struction effort following the devastating earthquake of 1972.
23.       The Government continues to be preoccupied with emergency and
reconstruction requirements. Therefore it has not been possible to develop
a long-term lending program for the Bank Group. A new tentative investment
program for the expanded public sector was recently completed by the Government.
The projects for which the Bank has provided support over the last year, the
one now proposed and those for which assistance may be provided in the relatively
near term were identified during programming discussions in August of last
year. At that time, the Government also requested financing for water supply,
geothermal power generation, education and for the agricultural sector. Bank
Group lending activities to Nicaragua are being closely coordinated with
donors such as IDB, CABEI, and bilateral agencies.
24.       In view of the disruptions created by the war, one of the most
urgent requirements of the Nicaraguan economy has been the establishment of a
mechanism to generate well designed, high priority projects, and the financing
of production projects,particularly those which promise to generate foreign
exchange. The Preinvestment Fund Project, signed on December 18, 1980, the
Managua Water Supply Engineering Project signed on June 3, 1981 will help
achieve the first objective. Also, the UNDP/Bank agricultural project prep-
aration office is expected to provide assistance in the identification and
preparation of rural development projects in Central America and Panama. The
Industrial Rehabilitation Credit Project which was signed on July 15, 1981
will support those subprojects which promise to generate foreign exchange.
The Municipal Development Project addresses another urgent Nicaraguan problem,
by helping to improve the functioning of the city of Managua and other key
municipalities. The project would contribute to increased productivity in
these industrial centers; it would also provide major benefits to the urban
population through flood protection and improvements in the transport system.
25.       IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY68 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY74 to local shareholders. In FY76 IFC agreed to provide US$6.5
million in long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to
help expand its production capacity and develop new cane fields. Due to
subsequent cancellations of part of the project by Nicaragua Sugar Estates



Ltd., that commitment was reduced to US$4 million. Also in FY76 IFC made a
loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respectively, to help
finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. Of the projects financed
by IFC, three suffered some damage during the war. Several IFC missions have
visited Nicaragua recently. Arrangements for rescheduling IFC's loans are
still being discussed and are expected to be completed shortly.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
26.       About half of Nicaragua's population lives in urban areas.  Although
Managua, with a population of over 600,000, dominates the urban sector, and is
the most important productive center, secondary and tertiary urban centers
have developed, which are characterized by accelerated growth rates (most cities
are likely to double in population by the year 2000), widespread poverty, defi-
cient infrastructure, and an inadequate financial base. Cities are growing at
an average annual growth rate of almost 5%; several have annual growth rates
between 8% and 12%. Growth has taken place under difficult circumstances:
municipal governments in Nicaragua, as in most Latin American countries, tradi-
tionally have been weak. In the past, municipal revenues went to Central
Government and few, if any, were apportioned back to the cities. Most municipal
revenues are derived from locally levied taxes, fees, licenses, and sales
taxes; property taxes are collected by municipal authorities for transfer
to the Central Government. The limited amounts of municipal infrastructure
and services investments that could be financed were confined to higher income
cities and to higher income areas within cities, without regard to national
investment planning for growth, equity, or efficiency. The fundamental
imbalance between revenue authority and expenditure responsibility often
resulted in deficiencies in infrastructt'r- --d services, and has kept some of
the key municipailities  !-,m adequately ccp    with expanding economic activity
and rapidly growing popileations.
27.       The Pacific Coastal Region has been the focus of most of Nicaragua's
economic activity and urban growth. While it has only 15.4% of the national
territory, it accounts for over 65% of the country's population. The region
contains 16 of Nicaragua's largest cities and over 58% of the economically
active population.
28.       Nicaragua's main urban problems are environmental and infrastructural,
and are related more to service deficiencies than to housing stock inadequacies.
For example, in the ten largest urban centers outside Managua, between 56%
and 93% of the population is without adequate basic infrastructure; and some-
what less than 40% is without minimum basic infrastructure.
29.       Owing mainly to the reconstruction efforts after the 1972 earthquake,
there has been a concentration of public investment in Managua. However,
despite these investments, almost 70% of Managua's population does not have
access to basic infrastructure and services and lives in substandard shelter
in subdivisions without adequate water, sewerage, paving, storm drainage and
public lighting. The degree of infrastructure deficiency is even more serious
in the ten largest secondary cities.



- 9-
Urban Employment, Incomes, and Poverty
30.       Although there is strong evidence linking the rapid growth of
Nicaragua's capital and other major urban centers to the growth of the modern
sector in the national economy, open unemployment and underemployment is
greatest at the principal destinations of migrants, particularly Managua.
While nominally employed, the urban poor typically work part-time, below their
skill levels or at low productivity jobs. Incomes and productivity are also
adversely affected by lack of access to markets and disproportionately long
trips to and from places of work. This is true both for the self-employed and
for those empJoyed in the formal sector. Reliable income distribution data
are not available. In 1977 at least 20% of the urban population was estimated
to be below the poverty line (income of about US$150 per month per family)
while, according to a 1980 household survey, about 50% of urban families have
monthly earnings of no more than US$300.
31.       The 1972 earthquake damaged over 80% of the capital city's total
area, and destroyed all of the central commercial/administrative center. The
damage and loss of physical assets focused attention for the first time on
planning for Managua's future development. Several lending agencies and
large-scale grant assistance contributed to the reconstruction effort, including
massive planning efforts and technical assistance. Two results of the recon-
struction process, however, were a spatial extension of the city's infrastruc-
ture networks in an attempt to diffuse the effect of further earthquakes and
invested land speculation. Little of the investment in municipal services or
infrastructure reached the low-income neighborhoods of Managua (and the
massive allocation of resources for reconstruction further diverted investment
from the secondary cities). Little was done to improve municipal management
or to reform the municipal revenue structure. The Association assisted in the
reconstruction effort with an Earthquake Reconstruction Credit of US$20 million
(Credit 389-NI). The credit was signed in June 1973, its closing date was in
September 1979. The project included a sites and services component and
industrial, education, water supply and power components, all designed to
meet emergency needs not covered by programs of other aid agencies. The sites
and services component provided safe shelter and adequate services to low-income
families affected by the earthquake, albeit of somewhat higher standards than
originally intended; it also provided for successful mutual aid/self-help
sites and services. The project however had little impact on reactivating the
economy or contributing to the orderly development of Managua, as it was an
emergency operation and was executed during a period of increasing political
turmoil and administrative instability.
32.       Between 1972 and 1979, most of Nicaragua's urban centers experienced
rapid growth. However, little attention was given to the mechanisms and re-
sources needed to keep pace with the resulting demands placed on them. This
aggravated a long and continuing tradition of weak municipal government,
resulting primarily from low revenues, inadequate management and Central
Government neglect.
33.       The 1979 war had an even greater impact than the earthquake, because
it affected almost all of the Pacific coast urban centers. Damage to public
structures, infrastructure, and equipment, estimated at US$85 million, while
less than the Managua earthquake, affected most secondary urban centers which,



- 10 -
even prior to the war, were unable to provide adequate basic municipal infra-
structure and services. While much has been done to repair or replace municipal
infrastructure and the newly created local municipal governments have proven
to be effective, a great deal remains to be done to make up for the original
basic infrastructure deficit and for city-management deficiencies.
Recent Actions and Urban Development Institutions
34.       The Government has put into effect a substantial reorientation of
urban and municipal development policies. In its first year, it initiated
major reconstruction and employment-generating programs in urban centers which
were directly affected by the war. Simultaneously, the Government enacted legis-
lation to provide for municipal autonomy and to increase municipal revenues.
Municipal Reconstruction Juntas were created to be responsible for the admin-
istration of all cities and towns. They have, by and large, provided dynamic,
enthusiastic and effective administration. Although the Juntas are relatively
inexperienced, they have rebuilt and managed effectively most of the country's
urban centers over the past year and a half. Legislation reforming municipal-
ities' tax revenues and fees have been enacted and municipal revenues have
increased substantially. The Secretaria de Asuntos Municipales (SAMU), headed
by a cabinet minister, was created to foster more balanced municipal develop-
ment and to direct investments to municipalities that traditionally have been
neglected. The Bank's Urban Reconstruction Project--Credit 965-NI--(signed
in January 1980 and due to be completed in June 1982), has emphasized the
need not only to rehabilitate six of the larger urban centers destroyed in the
war, but also to provide the basis for future regional development planning.
The project has been implemented well by the implementing agencies and parti-
cipating municipalities (see page 4 of Annex II).
35.       The six regional project implementation teams put in place to execute
the Urban Reconstruction Project have been an important part of the planning
and project preparation process for a wide range of municipal development
programs. Managua's local government, the Junta de Reconstruccion de Managua
(JRM), consists of five members; its President is a cabinet minister. JRM has
effectively carried out a major reconstruction effort, part of which was the
repair and paving of bus routes through the public transport rehabilitation
component of the Urban Reconstruction Project. In the process, JRM consolidated
its in-house capacity to carry out large-scale municipal projects, and is now
considered to be one of the public sector's most capable implementing agencies.
In September 1981, a decree was passed which integrates the budget of JRM
into the national budget as of January 1, 1982. While preserving JRM's
functional autonomy, the measure is intended to streamline and reduce costs of
some administration functions, to allow for closer budgetary monitoring of
JRM's operations, and would transfer any net surplus of those operations to
a Municipal Development Fund to be administered by SAMU.
36.       At the national level, the Ministry of Housing and Human Settlements
(MINVAH) is charged by the Government with overall responsibility for developing
and implementing urban sector policies (including housing). MINVAH is also the
normative and regulatory agency for urban development. The municipal system is
given high priority by the Government. In order to reinforce the capacity of



- 11 -
local governments and to coordinate the reconstruction and development process,
the government has assigned the special role of coordinating the different
economic and administrative programs and functions of the new Municipal
Reconstruction Boards to SAMU. SAMU has been developing a coherent and
comprehensive development plan which includes an analysis of the country's
136 urban centers under its jurisdiction. SAMU's capacity to deal with the
overwhelming number of requests for assistance needs to be increased. SAMU
has received assistance from IDB-financed specialists and an ongoing USAID-
financed program, but additional assistance, as envisaged in this project's
municipal management component, is needed to increase its capacity further.
37.       The Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (INAA)
was created in 1979 through a merger of the Government-owned utility respon-
sible for Managua's water supply and distribution and the national water
agency of the Ministry of Health. The principal role of INAA is to plan,
construct, operate and maintain water supply and sewerage systems throughout
Nicaragua. INAA has plans for implementing an IDB-financed water supply and
sewerage project in 32 municipalities during the 1981-1983 period, and plans
to request a Bank loan to assist in financing a Managua water supply project.
INAA is the beneficiary of a water supply engineering loan, which was signed
on June 3, 1981.
New Policy Directions
38.       The Government's approach to national spatial development is to
first allocate resources to agroindustrial activities and then give attention
to hitherto isolated and neglected centers, where economic potential exists
(such as the rapidly expanding urban centers located along the access route
to the Atlantic Region); this is reflected in the development proposal of the
Ministry of Planning and MINVAH for the next five years.  The proposal has
been based on an extensive analysis of growth potential of urban centers and
subregions. 1/
39.       SAMU has been preparing plans for accelerated municipal development
outside Managua. Since Nicaragua's economy is based predominantly on agricul-
tural exports, a major proportion of investment has been concentrated in the
Pacific Coastal Region. 2/ While the long-term objective of Government is to
develop the resources of the Atlantic Coastal Area, it is also clear that the
development of the Pacific Zone is, and will continue to be, of high priority
given its importance for increasing productivity. However, even within the
Pacific Coastal Region, concentrated productive investments in certain areas
or cities have attracted strong migration, for the most part as a result of
employment opportunities.
1/   Several sector strategy papers have been produced with a view to defining
a national development plan. These include: A Program for Decentraliza-
tion and Development of the Pacific Coastal Region, OAS, 1978; Analysis
of Investment Priorities, MINVAH, 1980, and MINVAH's working paper on
national urban infrastructure needs, MINVAH, 1981.
2/   The Pacific Coastal Region accounts for only 15% of Nicaragua's land
area, but has over 53% of the national road network, 95% of investments
in water, and 77% of new housing investments (1970-1975).



- 12 -
40.       New zoning, land use, and development plans to regulate Managua's
future growth have been put into effect in order to contain wasteful sprawl
and to maximize use of existing infrastructure and usable land. A development
boundary has been established within which future investments will be contained.
Within this perimeter, the JRM plans to upgrade infrastructure and services and
thus promote residential densification, together with commercial, industrial,
and support activities, all aimed at increasing the efficiency of the existing
urban systems. This redensification strategy is designed to promote the filling
of extensive voids left after the earthquake. It could ultimately accommodate a
population increase of over 50% by the year 2000, i.e., some 350,000 people.
Given the continuing seismic risk in Managua, the Government is developing,
with the assistance of the US geological service, a new building code which
would reduce the risk of major damage with fatalities in the event of another
major quake.
Sector Investments
41.       Investments in the urban sector 1/ are estimated to have reached
about US$44.0 million in 1980, 17% of which were in Managua. In the 1981-82
period, annual investments are estimated to be US$59.0 million of which about
25% will again be in Managua, including the first year's investment of this
proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The Managua component of the project was prepared mainly by JRM
using technical assistance from the Preinvestment Fund (FINAPRI), and from
Bank missions. The Pilot Municipal Development Component was prepared by SAMU
with inputs from Bank preparation missions. The project was appraised in
February 1981. The appraisal mission's report (3465c-NI, dated December 11,
1981) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex II
contains a timetable of key events in processing the proposed project and a
description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations of
the loan took place in Washington from September 8 to 9, 1981. The Nicaraguan
Delegation was led by Mr. Bernado Chamorro, Vice Minister of FIR.
Objectives
43.       This Municipal Development Project has been designed to address
urgently the highest priority problems affecting Nicaragua's urban centers.
The Managua component focuses on alleviating the problem of storm drainage and
other basic infrastructure constraints that affect the transport and delivery
of goods and services in large parts of the city. A pilot program is included
to develop the institutional mechanism for an efficient allocation of resources
in other cities. Both programs would benefit from a Municipal Management
1/   Includes urban water and sewerage; other municipal infrastructure and
facilities; investments to provide municipal services such as solid
waste collection and disposal, urban schools, etc.; and public urban
transportation. All estimates are in February 1981 dollar equivalents.



- 13 -
Component intended to assist municipal governments and the Central Government
in developing the capacity to address efficiently the needs of Nicaragua's
rapidly growing urban system. Particular emphasis would be given to raising
adequate local revenues, in contrast to past practices of relying on the
Central Government's budget.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would include three related components:
A: Managua Component
This component would consist of two infrastructure improvement
programs:
(a) Upgrading for Low-Income Neighborhoods of Managua. The
program would provide basic improvements and storm drainage
protection for bus routes, including related basic street
paving, walkways and public lighting in the areas of most
intensive traffic in 26 low income neighborhoods. The pro-
gram would be the first phase of a plan that will eventually
upgrade over 50 neighborhoods to this basic level of infra-
structure and municipal services. The improvements are
designed to eliminate recurring problems such as localized
annual flooding, and improve the functioning, safety and
health conditions of these areas. This subcomponent accounts
for US$15.8 million or 69% of project costs, including con-
tingencies. The program responds to JRM's recently adopted
policy to redensify the present dispersed pattern of the city
resulting from sprawl generated by earthquake reconstruction.
By so doing, JRM intends to reduce costly expansion of
infrastructure networks and make maintenance more efficient.
Large areas of the city within this expansion limit corre-
spond to the lower income residential neighborhoods that
have not been provided with adequate municipal infrastructure
or services. These voids result in a discontinuity of the
city's circulation network, aggravate storm flooding through-
out the city and affect the delivery of maintenance services.
The plan will not only directly benefit about 65% of the
urban population (about 45% of the city's poor), but will
also have a major impact on the economic efficiency of
the entire city. The twenty-six low-income neighborhoods
(with a total population of about 220,000) included in the
project have stable tenure conditions and their basic water
needs provided, but they have neither paved streets nor storm
drainage, and are subject to frequent flooding. Stagnant
surface water and inaccessible streets during the rainy season
create health problems and make refuse collection impossible.
Electricity and public street lighting is nonexistent or
inadequate and represents a considerable safety problem.
The proposed improvements represent least cost solutions,
are of highest priority, and are within JRM's jurisdiction
and capacity to implement.



- 14 -
(b)  Major Storm Drainage Improvements Program.  Because the city
is on a sloping plain that drains toward Lake Managua, the
natural topography has created eight drainage areas and flood
plains. During normal rainfall, the natural gullies become
rivers and overflow their banks. Construction of five
critical drainage channels would eliminate the annual flood-
ing in seven of the eight areas, which destroys housing,
obstructs major traffic arteries and requires costly clean-up
of debris. They would also allow residents of the affected
areas to make permanent house improvements and upgrade the
usable flood plain.
B. Pilot Municipal Development Component
45.       A pilot program to demonstrate and test technically and financially
feasible approaches to address the needs of Nicaragua's secondary cities
would be administered by SAMU. The component aims at improving the capacity
and efficiency of SAMU's operations (planning, appraising and supervising
subprojects) by establishing measurable tests and preparing a future larger
investment program. The proposed institutional strengthening will in part
be achieved through the financing of subprojects in 15 selected municipalities
and through technical assistance. Subloans would be limited to urgent projects,
particularly the upgrading and protection of basic infrastructure in areas of
heavy traffic (paving and storm drainage), and the provision of essential
minimum facilities such as low-standard markets, transport terminals, and a
slaughterhouse. A total of 34 subprojects have been appraised and would be
implemented over a three-year period by each municipality with the assistance
and supervision of SAMU. The pilot program would account for US$3.0 million
or 13% of total project costs, including contingencies. Subloans would
be made to municipalities under contracts satisfactory to the Bank (see
Section 2.05(c) of the draft SAMU Project Agreement).
46.       SAMU has selected 15 high priority municipalities as eligible
to participate in the pilot infrastructure and improvements program. Selection
has been on the basis of criteria developed jointly with MINVAH and reflects
the first stage of defining a national spatial development strategy; specific-
ally, each of the participating municipalities is in one of the country's most
productive regions, has a satisfactory financial base, and is experiencing
accelerated and continuing growth. The subprojects would be justified on the
basis of existing demand and would constitute the least cost solutions. They
would conform to SAMU's requirements for technical preparation. The partici-
pating municipalities would present a satisfactory financial plan and approve
any new taxes required as a condition of initiation of works. The component
is designed to generate a financial base for future municipal development,
through the eventual establishment of a national municipal development fund
at the FED to be operated on behalf of SAMU.
47.       SAMU and the Bank have reviewed and appraised all the subprojects
to be financed in the pilot program for each of the 15 participating munici-
palities clustered in four subregional/administrative zones. Both the
municipalities and subprojects have been selected to provide SAMU with a
sound basis for expanding its planning and implementation capacity in the
near future.



- 15 -
C. Municipal Management Component
48.       The establishment of an institutional framework for the management
of municipal development is a key objective of the project. The new Government
has taken important steps in that direction: local governments have been given
more autonomy and their financial needs are being addressed by recent measures
to reformulate municipal taxes and fees. SAMU was created to regulate and
assist in the process. However, much needs to be done to overcome past inequi-
ties and inefficiencies. Most significant among immediate concerns are the
weak, inflexible revenue basis and the heavy dependency on Central Government
grants. While the local governing boards are dynamic and reform-oriented,
they lack the experience and the administrative framework to bring about major
improvements in the delivery of infrastructure and services.
49.       The municipal management component would address this constraint by
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of JRM and SAMU. While Managua
has different constraints than other municipalities, all could benefit from
improvements in various areas: (a) the local administration would receive
technical assistance to improve planning, budgeting, and financial monitor-
ing; (b) the municipalities' financial bases would be strengthened by
increasing locally generated revenues; and (c) municipal resources (physical
plant and staff) would be strengthened and local management practices,
especially financial planning and control, would be improved. The management
assistance program would focus on these improvements by providing about 330
person-months of local and foreign technical assistance, and vehicles and
equipment. The following would be provided:
(i) Technical assistance and training for JRM (74 consultant-months)
to strengthen the basis for sound financial management in areas
such as debt collection, financial planning and control, cadastral
and betterment studies, efficient budgeting and reporting, and
designing and operating improved accounting and internal audit
systems, and review of the role of departmental forces in future
operations. Another 60 person-months of training of staff in
skills required for project formulation and implementation would
also be provided (see Schedule 2, Part C(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
(ii) Technical assistance, vehicles, and training for SAMU (102 consultant-
months) to make recommendations for establishing municipal development
policies and introduce reforms to strengthen the financial base of
municipalities; prepare spatial development strategies; and design
municipal management training programs to be offered by SAMU. Also
included would be 94 person-months of staff training to improve
appraisal and supervision procedures and management systems; and
monitor ongoing and prepare future projects. Four vehicles and
equipment (totalling US$86,000), and special consultant services
would be provided to SAMU to strengthen its implementation capacity
(see Schedule 2, Part C(ii) and (iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The project would be implemented over a two and a half year period.
Implementation schedules and key implementation targets have been established
to monitor the timely execution of the project. JRM would be responsible for



- 16 -
carrying out the Managua component under a subsidiary loan agreement with
the Government (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). JRM has
already started emergency construction of part of the storm drainage. Work
carried out since March 1, 1981 is proposed for retroactive financing (see
Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). Most of this work was
completed by June 1981. Total retroactive financing proposed is about US$1.4
million equivalent. The remaining drainage works are to commence in January
1982 (after the rains) and are scheduled for completion by May 1982.
51.       SAMU would be responsible for carrying out the pilot municipal
development component (see Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement) under
a subsidiary loan agreement with the Government (see Section 3.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). For the selection of priority municipalities, SAMU
has developed a set of criteria, reflecting the growth potential of munici-
palities and the need to efficiently serve existing industrial and other types
of economic activity. Staff from SAMU carried out a complete analysis of the
technical, economic and financial aspects of proposed subprojects. A format has
been developed for the documentation of this analysis and for its presentation
to the SAMU Credit Committee for final approval. The committee members are the
Vice-Minister and the Department Directors of SAMU and a representative of the
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED). The participation of the FED representa-
tive is in line with the Government's policy of involving the financial system
in all investment decisions. The financial system will be further involved
through the participation of the countries' financial intermediaries as the
financial agents of SAMU. Once a subproject has been approved by SAMU, one
of the intermediaries (which have branches in every municipality) will be
authorized to disburse against statements of expenditures certified by SAMU
staff and will also be in charge of collecting loan repayments. FED and the
participating intermediaries would receive 1% each from SAMU to cover their
expenses as fiscal agents for the component. SAMU and FED would enter into a
subsidiary contract, with the government defining the terms on which the funds
will be passed on and the responsibilities of the various participating
agencies, subject to Bank approval. During negotiations, a statement of
SAMU's lending policies and criteria, a model participation agreement between
SAMU/FED and participating banks, and the credit manual for SAMU were agreed
in substance.
Cost and Financing
52.       The total estimated cost of the project including contingencies, but
excluding taxes and duties, is US$22.8 million, of which the foreign exchange
component is 61% or US$13.9 million. The proposed loan of US$16.0 million
would cover 70% of project costs, including the entire foreign exchange component,
and US$2.1 million in local costs (9% of total costs). Bank financing of this
portion of local costs would be justified by the economy's yet incomplete
recovery from the effects of the war and by the present serious balance of
payments and fiscal constraints. JRM would contribute US$5.7 million, equiva-
lent to 25% of the project's total cost and 100% of the counterpart of its
component. Government would provide US$0.8 million, which would cover 4% of
the cost of the project; participating municipalities would provide about
US$0.3 million, 1% of the project's cost.
53.       Because of the continuing difficult financial situation of the
Central Government, it is important that financial dependence of Municipalities



- 17 -
on the central budget be avoided. Financial projections for JRM and other
participating municipalities show that sufficient revenues will be available
to finance their normal expenditures plus the additional cost of the proposed
project. However, JRM (which is responsible for about 85% of the proposed
project) agreed that, if necessary, municipal taxes and fees would be increased
to cover JRM's expenses of operation and maintenance, debt service and to
provide its share of the cost of this project. The Government agreed to take
any actions required on its part to enable JRM to comply with this provision
(see Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). As part of the management
assistance program, JRM would review its financial management policies
and furnish to the Bank a timetable of measures to be implemented (see Section
2.02(b) of the draft JRM Project Agreement). Before undertaking any invest-
ments in excess of US$8 million in 1981 and US$2 million in the subsequent
years of project execution, over and above those included in the proposed
project, JRM will demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Bank that such
investments are within its implementing capacity and that sufficient funds are
available to carry them out without jeopardizing the completion of the project
(see Section 3.02 of the draft JRM Project Agreement).
54.       JRM would receive US$13.2 million of the loan at an interest rate of
15% and on terms of 20 years including 3 years of grace (see Section 3.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). SAMU would receive US$2.1 million at the same
interest rate as the proposed Bank loan, for 20 years, including a grace
period of three years (see Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement), and
would onlend the funds through the country's financial intermediaries to
participating municipalities at a rate of 15%; the terms of the subloans would
depend on the nature of the subprojects and the expected life of the structures
to be financed. SAMU would pass on 2% of the interest to the FED and the
participating intermediaries for administrative expenses and would retain the
balance of the spread for its own administrative expenses. The Government
would pass on the proceeds of the loan for technical assistance to both
agencies as grants, through the Central Bank. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The 15% onlending rate compares with a projected rate
of inflation of about 25% for 1981 which is expected to decline to about 20%
in 1982 and to about 15% in 1983. Inflation is expected to stabilize at rates
below 15% for the remainder of the life of the project, resulting in a positive
interest rate for that period. Although, during the commitment period, the SAMU
onlending rate is likely to be negative, it does represent significant progress
from the rates of between 6% and 8% in force until September 1981. The
adequacy of SAMU's onlending rate would be reviewed by SAMU and the Bank
no later than March 31, 1982 and annually thereafter (see Section 2.05(d) of
the draft SAMU Project Agreement.)
Procurement
55.       The construction industry suffered serious damage during the war
and has been recovering slowly, as the largest contractors have left the
country. Those construction firms that have started to operate again have
been working close to capacity. They are expected to be fully occupied over
the next two to three years. The Ministry of Construction (MINCON) estimates
that only 29% of the public sector's 1981 construction program can be let



- 18 -
out to private contractors for bidding; the balance will be carried out under
force account by JRM, MINCON, and other public agencies. MINCON intends to
increase the participation of private contracting in the future to over 60%
of the Government's construction program. With a view to having the project
assist in supporting the construction industry, the possibility of wider
participation of the industry in the upgrading component was discussed during
negotiations and agreement was reached that by June 30, 1982, JRM would carry
out a study of this problem. Upon completion, the study, together with
recommendations for action, would be provided to the Bank for comment (see
Section 2.08 of the draft JRM Project Agreement). JRM would carry out the
works financed under the proposed loan through the use of its own departmental
forces (force account). The proposed works are similar to those that JRM
has been executing efficiently since late 1979. In the case of major storm
drainage improvements, the loan would finance the continuation of an ongoing
program. Similarly, the proposed neighborhood improvements would be carried
out using the same methods (low/intermediate technology), materials and labor
used successfully in the reconstruction effort and JRM's ongoing neighborhood
improvements program. The loan would include technical assistance to increase
the efficiency of carrying out works through force account.
56.       The implementation of the 34 subprojects in 15 municipalities would
be phased over three years. Eight municipalities would be ready to start
operations in the fourth quarter of 1981. SAMU would supervise implementation
of the subprojects. Tendering with local competitive bidding would be used.
Where there are two or more buildings proposed per municipality, bid packages
would be prepared. Because individual tenders are not expected to exceed
US$100,000, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would participate.
Therefore, international competitive bidding would not be appropriate. For
reasons similar to those explained in para. 58, some of the municipal improve-
ments of the SAMU component could be carried out under force account. The
capacity of the municipalities to do so has been examined and found to be
satisfactory. To the extent possible, the streets, storm drainage, and bridge
work would be proposed for appropriate competitive bidding on a case by case
basis depending on the availability of local contractors and building capacity
of each municipalitity. Street improvements would be undertaken by force
account. Procurement of construction materials, such as cement, steel,
reinforced concrete, pipe, pre-cast paving blocks, and box culverts, would be
by local competitive bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank (see
Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements would cover the foreign exchange component of the
project's cost, and about 9% of the project's total costs which relate to
local expenditures (see also para. 52). Percentages of project expenditures
to be financed would be as follows: 70% of civil works; 100% of foreign
technical assistance and training and 64% of local expenditures; 70% of sub-
loans to municipalities; and 100% of foreign procured or 85% of locally pro-
cured equipment and vehicles. The requests for reimbursement for works carried
out by force account would be supported by certified statements of expenditure.
The related documentation and that for the subloans made by SAMU would be re-
tained in Nicaragua for review by Bank project supervision missions. Disburse-
ments for civil works carried out through contracts let under local competitive



- 19 -
bidding (about 25% of the loan), as well as all other disbursements, would be
fully documented. Independent auditors would examine the statements of expendi-
tures submitted with disbursement applications and the special account in the
Central Bank to ensure that they properly reflect expenditures incurred for
legitimate project purposes. In addition, SAMU and JRM would submit to the
Bank annual audits of relevant project accounts (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the
draft JRM Project Agreement and 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft SAMU Project
Agreement).
58.       The implementation plan for the JRM component calls for implementing
upgrading work in 6 to 10 neighborhoods simultaneously (in addition to the
storm drainage works) each quarter. This represents an average quarterly
expenditure of almost US$1.8 million. In order for JRM to keep pace with the
resulting rapid (and prolonged) succession of expenditures, it is proposed
that a working fund be established. This fund would be established in the
Central Bank to reimburse JRM for the Bank's share of eligible local expendi-
tures for civil works under this component. An initial disbursement of US$1.2
million equivalent, estimated as the Bank's share of 3 months expenditures,
would be made, subject to receipt of a withdrawal application supported by
the documentation indicating that the special account for the Working Fund has
been established in the Central Bank. Details of the operation of the Working
Fund were discussed and agreed during negotiations (see Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). A project account would be opened in the Central Bank
for SAMU and the Government would deposit in this account initially the amount
of US$300,000 equivalent in Cordobas and annually thereafter the counterpart
funds required. These counterpart funds would include SAMUfs operating costs.
An agreement would be reached between SAMU and FED, defining FED's role as
fiscal agent for SAMU (see Section 2.05(a) of the draft SAMU Project Agreement.
Project Justification
59.       The project is designed to help improve the functioning of Managua
as a city. It would also help prepare for longer-term resource allocation in
the secondary urban centers. Relatively simple physical improvements would
lead to rapidly increasing economies. Given the critical importance of the
public sector to urban development, the economic benefits of measures which
would make urban government more effective would be substantial. The pre-
dominance of Managua is such that improving its efficiency would have a
positive impact on the economy.
60.       The benefits from the proposed investments would derive first
from the prevention of loss of production, of the costs of erosion and of the
destruction of private property and public infrastructure caused by frequent
serious flooding. Secondly, the neighborhood street paving program would give
better access to commercial and work centers. These benefits would include a
reduction in travel time and costs, the opening up of new employment possi-
bilities and the opportunity to locate on cheaper land previously unavail-
able because of inadequate transportation. They would manifest themselves in
higher land values, increased profits for transport service operators, lower
average costs for renters in Managua and lower costs to consumers of products
originating in areas with improved access. The streets which would be paved



- 20 -
under the project carry sufficient volumes of traffic to Justify the invest-
ment on the basis of vehicle cost savings alone. In addition, there would
be savings on vehicle operating costs on existing paved arteries as congestion
is relieved.
61.       The proposed road improvement program in Managua, limited to bus
penetration routes, would support a well established bus transport system
(which has benefited from a rehabilitation program financed under Reconstruc-
tion Credit 965-NI) serving the residents of many very poor neighborhoods to
be improved under the project. Given the keen competition among private small
vehicle operators and the recently developed public bus transport, much of the
benefit is likely to go to transport users, landowners in the improved neighbor-
hoods, and the public sector. Better roads in relatively poor neighborhoods
would make it possible to improve other urban services such as solid waste
collection, police and fire protection, public utility maintenance, schools
and health care.
62.       The economic rate of return for the Managua component was calculated
conservatively and only on the basis of the increase in the imputed rental value
of existing housing units. Although rents and, to some extent, property values
in Managua have been distorted following the introduction of stringent price
controls, relative rental values are still a useful indicator. Comparisons
indicate that rent in other areas with similar levels of infrastructure are
about 25% higher (the average rent in the project areas is currently about
US$30 per month). Since, however, the proposed project would increase signif-
icantly the supply of land with reasonable bus access and freedom from frequent
flooding, the project economic benefits were calculated by assuming only a 20%
increase in rental values. Although significant amounts of unskilled labor,
not all of which would likely encounter alternative employment during the same
period, would be employed in the project, no adjustments were made to the
investment costs. A weighted average of 3% was used for maintenance costs.
On the basis of these streams and an economic life of 30 years (with no
residual value taken into account), the internal economic rate of return
for the entire Managua investment program is about 17%.
63.       Evidence from similar projects, where data availability permitted a
more direct estimate of benefits, indicates that returns might even be greater.
In Brazil, for example, savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time and
petroleum imports were estimated to produce economic rates of return of over
50%. Similar results have been reported for other Central American capital
cities. In Managua, where passengers and goods have to travel over relatively
long distances, the savings from basic road improvements are likely to be also
very substantial.
64.       Given the city-wide scope of the project's benefits, an estimate
of the proportion of benefits channeled directly to the urban poor (i.e.,
households with incomes of less than US$150 equivalent per month) can only be
approximate. In some of the areas where physical works would be executed, as
much as 80% of the families are below the poverty line, while in others the
percentage drops to 20%. Based on an overall estimate of the income levels of
the families residing in these areas, about 50% of project expenditures are
expected to directly benefit the urban poor.



- 21 -
65.       Because of the large number and variety of relatively small sub-
projects to be financed through the SAMU line of credit, an overall economic
rate of return was not calculated for the SAMU component. For the non-revenue
earning subprojects, such as bridges, street improvements, and storm drainage,
the analysis was primarily based on a qualitative evaluation of investment
priorities within a city from the point of view of improving its functioning,
a comparison of competing alternatives, and the establishment of the least-
cost solution both in terms of initial investment and maintenance costs. The
analysis of typical individual revenue earning subprojects to be implemented
in the secondary cities, in addition to the technical evaluation to assure
least cost solutions and optimum location, has confirmed their financial
feasibility. With the help of technical assistance, provided under the
project, SAMU would develop procedures to incorporate an economic rate of
return analysis for all subprojects beyond a size to be determined, taking
appropriate account of the cost of capital.
D.   Project Risks
66.       The proposed project has been formulated while the country is well
into a period of intensive reconstruction and would be implemented either
by institutions which have successfully participated in the early stages of
reconstruction or with staff experienced in this type of work. The scale of
activities would, however, be larger and some of the experience entirely new.
The risks would, therefore, be considerable and this has led to the incorpora-
tion of several safeguards in project design. Although preparation time has
been relatively short, the actual works are sufficiently uncomplicated, and
in many cases standardized, to facilitate execution. In the case of JRM,
which would be executing works almost identical to those it has been carrying
out successfully since late 1979, the risk derives mainly from weaknesses in
financial management and control which could lead to waste and some delays as
well as the possibility that revenue collections may be lower than projected.
Financial projections for the municipalities involved show that resources will
be sufficient to cover the additional requirements of the project. However,
to avoid the risk of the project requiring financing from the central budget,
it was agreed that if costs should exceed JRM revenues, its taxes and fees
would be raised to cover the additional cost. The technical assistance
proposed through the municipal management component is designed to minimize
this risk. The assumptions used in calculating revenues are in line with
recent experiences. In the case of SAMU, the institution is new and untested.
It would benefit first from the six regional teams which are successfully
guiding the implementation of the Urban Reconstruction Project and second from
substantial technical assistance. The subprojects to be financed under the
SAMU component were appraised with the help of Bank staff. This provided the
opportunity to apply the selection criteria developed by SAMU, and it has also
demonstrated the staff and training needs that would assure successful imple-
mentation of this project. New staff have already been hired and training for
them is included under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Government of Nicaragua and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and JRM and the Bank



- 22 -
and SAMU, and the Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The most important features and special conditions of
the draft Loan and Project Agreements have been included in Part IV and are
summarized in Section III of Annex III of the report. Additional conditions
of effectiveness would be (a) that a separate project account be set up in
the Central Bank and that the Borrower has deposited therein the amount of
US$300,000 equivalent, and that FED and SAMU have entered into contractual
arrangements defining FED's role as fiscal agent for SAMU; and (b) that a
subsidiary loan agreement between the borrower and SAMU and the borrower and
JRM satisfactory to the Bank be executed and that a working fund be established
in the Central Bank for JRM.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
December 11, 1981



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 Of 6
rABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             130.0                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCGME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       48.9               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /-b   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                   260.0        480.0      660.0                1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CONSUnPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       183.4        403.6     454.5                 1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1435.0         1921.0    2584.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.4           47.2      52.7                   64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          4.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           11.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         11.0        14.8       19.9                   34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       30.0        39.0       51.1                   94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.8        48.5       47.9                   40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                           49.6        49.0       49.7                  55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6         2.5        2.4                   4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8         2.9        3.3                    2.4                       1.5
URBAN                                4.3         4.2        4.5                    3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.5        48.4       45.3                   31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       18.7         14.6      11.7                    8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6          3.4       3.1                    2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THiOUSANDS)        ..         10.1      15.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       19.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            88.0       101.0      103.0                  108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    104.0       109.0      109.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            66.0        74.0       70.0                  65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        37.0         42.0       42.0                  34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       29.5         21.9      15.7                    7.6                       3.4
HEQLTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0           51.9      56.3                   64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        122.0        ..                   70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        35.0       70.0                   65.7
URBAN                                 ..        58.0      100.0                  79.7
RURAL                                 ..        16.0       34.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  59.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  75.7
RURAL                                 ..         8.0       32.0                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2738.5      1999.0/c  1666.0                 1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5456.3        751.0     800.0                1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              431.2        396.8     497.8                 471.2                      262.3
URBAN                              223.2       271.1      400.6                 558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..      2194.2    1754.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..                     ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                6.1/d         ..
URBAN                                5.8/d
RURAL                                6.37          .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.8/d       2.9
URBAN                                2.27          .
RURAL                                3.2/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               33.0        40.9         ..
URBAN                               71.0        76.7
RURAL                                4.0         6.9



- 24-                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Pggs2  of  6
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9jS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0        83.0      85.0                101.7                    105.9
MALE                 65.0        82.0      83.0                103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               66.0        84.0      88.0                101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  7.0        18.0      26.0                 35.3                     66.3
MALE                  9.0        19.0      25.0                 34.9                     73.2
FEKALE                6.0        17.0      28.0                 35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 24.0          9.0      14.0                 30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           35.0        39.0      37.0                 29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         13.0        26.0      30.0                 15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        57.5      17.0                  80.0                    75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        17.9      16.0                 42.6                    83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        52.3        56.7        ..                215.0                   181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.5        28.6      41.4                 89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        28.0      48.3                 62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0          ..        ..                  3.2                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      445.0       576.6     772.6
FENALE (PERCENT)                  16.9        20.2      22.0                 22.6                    32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.3        51.3      40.0                 35.0                    34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                16.0        15.5      14.1                 23.2                    28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.0        30.0      29.9                 31.8                     42.3
MALE                                51.7        48.5      46.9                 49.0                    56.5
FEMALE                              10.5        12.0      13.1                 14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.7       1.7                  1.4                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        42.4/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        65.4/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.17       . 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         8.7/e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    262.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     183.0                187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    319.0                 513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     155.0                362.2                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      21.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      19.0
Not available
Nor applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c Registered, not all practicing in the country; /d 1963; /e Rural population only.
May, 1981



-    -                                                           ~~~~~~~aNNEAlI
P.A.e3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF _SOCI0. INDICATORS
Notes:  Althoegh the dens are drow  trot seance  generally judged the moat tuthoritsti-e ard reliable  it shold also be noted  h., they may not hr intte-
ast-ionlly tompetble because of the look of stendardieed definitione sod rooct -sd bY different couo.tr leo ic colcinthe dote   Th.b dote e-r, none-
theless,.. usfo1 so de...rtbe ordere ot  sgoitude, adicare tren.ds, end  hbarsterie ceta.in sejr diff-reec.s betite   outis
The referenc  grops err (1) the see  cutr..ty group of the aobjectiocntryaad  (2). s roonoy group  ilth eoowhat high- er -veng  inccnr thee the .cun.try gr-u
of the subject c--eY(ecp  for 'CaPitaltrpo  Oil EReporters  group ebere "MPiddle I..... ftcth Africa end Kiddie rosr" ie ch...r brcosas of sr-cnge
socicrultrel  ffinria I. I  the referenc  gr-p dots the  -uros   n  popolerton eatebred etbec   noefor sect cod ict-roed ah-e only ahs
sajority gof the noontrise in a group hoe dens frr that leiconor.  Siot  the  -onereg. of ...toi-ti    moNg the icditc-c- depod. on the o-ilohiLity of fore
and is non uefr,ce .n ot be exerised i.torlatiog o--oge  of one todi-at-o to  r-rhe.-  The.t o-ecofe  ar  only reeful irconp-nirgibheoice  of
one iodicotorotns tiss amoNg the  outr..ty end refe-n-  gr-ops.
LANDrt  lANA (thrusond  qm.rcurooPer  -,cayiu  3rd -trotol-,uc-t co.d--o     - Pcpul-ti-c(ud
Tonal - Total suferoer,-i-prisio  lend eree end icland wrnb-uhu, and rural) divided by ti-e  -op-oiv- nuber nof hny.Ia  beds
Agior l- Estisete of-arclurla     used  espor4rlY c- P-r-noly                             ove1lablo io public eni priv-te g--erl ocd epeocelc-d hoepftaI und  e-
for croPs, pasture, nether and kitrhen gardens or to lie gallon; 1979 id.-                     hbhilitsticncr--rs   Htnapielel ar  esihliebenh  permanently ateffed
urn, PERc CAPITA (hi$) - GNeP Per- rapine neJt it   at c-r-et msrhec prire, cI-                    dial, --par c  inclodrd.  Rural hospiele. honvo, includ  heolth
-ulated by sam  c-cerin mothod as World Beck Arlee (1977-79 basis); 1960,                        acd endi-1  enosn- pera-nly  -cffrd by o physicicr (hut by
1970, end 1979 dons.                                                                             nediccle...i-cuc, oune.  idwife, et.)  hilb cff- ic-pocieutacc.---
detico and proide o lieited roge of medical f-cl-lnite.  F-nt eeia-
010GY! ONSUMPTION PfR CAPITA  A- h nelcne1       pir   f c--ercll -ergy (-1i                       tice1 purpoera  -rbc h-spituls include iWa  riciol                 h,re  beitele,
sn  ligite, Peclu, nrlgeodbdr-_   ueted getemleo-cd rur-I h                                                          1pt -1Dro  or rura  bopinale and nediceladmrriy
tniiy   l   tlor.      o   oi  equl%,.Tooln   ercpte   91  1970,heud 1979                        cerr.SPctirdbeicels ar  icoudad c.Iycde-r-tol.
date.                                                                                          Admlssioo    P  H-.IrP icel ho    o,.,i cuehor of adeusoin  to on din-borge
frce hoapitoln divided by the cuebn of bndo.
POPUIATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICS
TcraI Pora1atior. Mid-Yea  (thcua,ds   As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1979                    fOIlSINi
dera.                                                          Average bier cf ccuaehc~~~;       t   ~ f    ~ld pooc   a  hocerhold  -...l rsn   n  rr
OrbanPooerr  (proo...n of  -otIl  -  toic of arben no  -oo.pp1           otn                   "A ho..olerd'coHre'ters ciegopo,nii l  rh  shar  lining qu-ters
dfeetdefinitioes of orb a  are  mopofec   nsorbility of dote                              and their ne-  -nle. A bouder  r lodger may or may not hr  -inclded in
amenoreorris; tuc, 170, and 190dt.                                                       the bo-ehclc f-y  tnuio  purPose.
Poaatnin Peer 200if - Curren  Popolecion p-ojecicn  or   ee  on 1980                     ben ci perenon 'per rone~ in eli urh, andtIu.n          . ccpted cnetno
oelPopuIotion by aesn-00ed  hirmoit  an    et ility  ats                                  d-11ige   eeeoiv         D. lwliooteocludeoco_,-pomuetst-uctuP              ond
Prjcicp-rmters fot      orlr ee  compiho i-rb.e.erel..ee.-.rcoc plodpete
aglife noatar.t tr            icceigsbcocc'                - e  -apice iccos.c.r.c                     ienci-p lr--rc  o  dre11icel-rt1.rbc n.ua 
leon,  oAn  femle life eepetn..ry atobtitetg e  77.3 years.  Trhe Pore-                      convenional  .wellirge   ih..ln..rtiy to ljvtcg q-nt-er  as pretge
eter   -o ferility rei  ols  here thre  levls  snoin  declitn  in                           iitl.ce,udrrldetlg   epoiey
f-tility ....crdtng to Ino lvled peer family plneing performance.t  ..llIg  -P.i-y
Eocb onotry is rh..rotsigned  one of these clos  ccei-aaiue of motaifty                  CUCATION
end fertility treads forprjcto   papcseP.                                                  ujetdOn sc  Rtr
the birt   aeiteulithe deth rei, acdals  the aerrccea-eoInet ci c1l  gnuT the primaylvli  pretgecf rsean
moAns contat.-   This ie o_hiecd only eft-r fn-tllity races d-rlire  -c;lor                                 ooco-egt yryulluio...; nonsely ic-iudes chtidc   aged b-li
the replacemet lee  of unit net r-produrtion rtet, whe.tech grerution                          poare bun adjusted i or diffiIeet lengths of primary educectio; for
of mtrrpee  insft          soctlp.  Thearaiocur  Pcpultioe eisa on_striru niih uciver...l eduoti-n ..,.,Jl.et map nes_d 10l prcn
eist.mcd ce the basin of the  -rcjec-d  coetrsisof the pupuletior                              sinc.nt  pup1e or  below or ebrr the official ocool ego.
in the peer 2000, nod Ohe rune ofecine of fertility rote to replace-                         _nin dry   hci     tra.1ml      `sdfme-C.apured et eh-n; .....edry
bee et-ticcory curula-io  is  --h.bd - Th. year when att.icory pcculal-on                        prvdo   g-cerl,  cetoe    r  echer tru-ing i-saturiu.. fcr pupim.
tier hoe heoc reahed.                                                                          casly cf 12 to 17 prar  of age; c-rrepccde-curstar    gen..rally
Pnpolarioa Demeity                                                        rnolo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Idnd.
Per sq. he. - Mid-yar  populanio  Per square hil--no  (100 herta-n) of                         Ou-tioa ..   nro.ilneuct )yerreut1 of .oc.ndaoy)   Vnceniu...l inatitutl.ne
nons1 area; 1960. 1970 and 1979 date.                               ~icldn techical, induatriel, -r otherpo   t  rhib ap-err i.d.peud-
P"ns.fo.nrtol 1racad-Ine--d -shnfcgroloolond                                                     en -lycccdop-cnrtsoiae_-ud-ylnit...               o
ony; 19 60, 1970 aud 1979 darn.'                                                             PaEil-t.,tch-rcro.olec  n  aronda-y  botal  cu en --ulled ir
PopuRi-ta  Age OSroceur  (rereern) - cObldnec (0-lu yeor) (. o-king-age (15-                       PrImed  end anodard lovel  divided by  omboc- of te...brra in the
04 pees),. ad nationd (65 yearns ad. over) onP-.. tenges of eld-pyor p.p~.-                      crro   _oigleot
lso;10,1970,. ad 1979 dane                                                             AdlLieayrae(rcn(-iie-tredu1te  (abn~ to reed and write)
Population irnt.hase(--cen-ccutoal - Aecuel  -roth rue f coral mid-                               aspen--rge   f t-1e odult popu.loto- aged 75 y..re andov
yea  popalanio-  for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-79.
Population irceth Rtot  (prr.n.. - urhan - A-acl grctbrate  of orhe  yopu-                   ClfSUMOTIION
ltions icr 1950-hi, 1900-70, and 197D-79.                                                   tasne   oa(e   huodprlfion) - P.....geR    .. tees  nprie motor
Code Bictb Rtot  (rp.  thousand) - AInuI live births yer rhou...d of eid-peorN oar  teritng lees to  eiht pecoa;                            oldsnbunce   ere   n
popalatlan;t1900,.t191, and 1979 des                                                           m ilitary -ehiolne.
Crods Deetb Rr(Per          ..o.sed) - soaca  deetha per thb...s.ds of mid-year                tei  Rcier   cmncaedpoueiu) -1I Al  rpenI ... reevera for n4dir
population; 1960, 1970,. ad 1979 dete                                                          bycadresta to8 gama  public iperr oued of  Poplaion   alue.n
.ros  RaProd-tono  eate - Arnog   auber of d-aghtens  ou           ill bonn in                  license  reevesIcuiteead in yrsc  ehor  ntrrt                         f -adia
hon n--me  -ep-dutirn period it eb. maPrin...s Preen  age-sPeift. fr-                          aesrs  io effec; dais fororn   on  may co  hr -npoo-hi  since
iiy  an; us11y f cu-yea  energes mdieg ta 196i. 1970, and 1979.                               maetcocile  cclebd  icaset
Pamiy plnnin  - hcectrn.  mnal ithoue-da) - Maca  rasher of acr.or                    TO Re.eiver  (yen theu.a.d P.cc1stirn) - Ti   oivr  for broedrint
ofbiethl-1oa      devices under ...picas cf Ienica  family planning yrP=      .gnrlpbi   e   hjadpylaio   eoue   niesdT  osvv
Pemly Pleon.e-...     r  (Po-ent of married enmen  - Osercectoge ofP rete~d                      inco-atioeood cc Yeero wheceieraiofc TOVsi    ai  effect.
woor of   ild-bUnning age (15-44 yeera) ah. o b int-r        oldevices to                nesee   iriainle   haadyoaoOo      hv  u    trg    Ir
publi~trico  -scoe  prim-rilytl no--cdiug .en..    Orwl  -     It ie co..eidw...d
00OD AM4 971bR710N                                                                                 to be "daiy   if it aPpear    1 beat fou_ ie   -nnkb
ladma  f Puo  Produtiue  on Incns (109-71-ot) -Inda  of Per tapirs annual        Cie-e  Aeel litend-usepe  Cato con cea-So d 0- the rasher of
Prodution of all food romnditiee.  P-rd-tie  eaclude  seed and feed eud                        tiokets sold duriog theyear, lcludicg adlasi..otordrav-incineta
to onaledar Year basis.  Coditieacovsr  Pri-ay goods (e.g. suge..a...                          end mobile units..
ins:tead oftsuger) which or  edible and osnain  -urris-  (e.. -ofe. aud
teeoe-alded).  Aggrrgen prodacti-n of -,hb conty is base.d on                             5.03OR PORCt
aetinaI snrge producer  price esights; 1961-60, 1970, and 1979 dotu.                         Tota:l Lobo  P"rS  (rh ads) - iccmcll   ciep-race, includiog
Per rapin   atly of clne           ceto   eurmas   Computed fro                                are   ocsoduepon   u   uldc   osene   tdn5   tc.
energy equiv-lnt of net food  -upieeviblehieIn coontryiper c,plto                            cu-eiug populeccor of oil ugn..  Defiitnlc.a inva-iou-ooutnin
Per day   Aialable  -puplin io-pniae d_metic pd-ctino.  Iap               ..c lee            n   .. copeabin; 19601, 1970 sad 1979 date.
-oP,r,' adI hengee in snook. Net euPulr   oldeaimal feed, eeede,                          FeaeFcosr                 1nei  loho  forc  an  r-c-tge of total lohor f--co
qaotirrs   d in ford p.....la.  en,   d I...ee in distribution. Requir-                dAricaltono (cEroent) - Labor io_  in f analg, fo-entr, bunnting end
aen    er  ot i-tnd by FAD b.a.ed un physiclo0ic-l c_eda fr noma  purl-                  fishing.     uspecetage o  ti itel leb- fr-; 1900, 1970 end 1979 dato.
vty and heelih c-aideriog  evrcseti  eperture, body neighta, ego                           Inda-tr  (cocet) - Lbobu  fon-  tc miniug, co..etnctioc, manfac.tuing
amd sen distributino  pcpulairo, and o11wing 10 percet fcrweesea                             so  e,letricty, -ac- and gee as p-enetoge uf tmeal 1abr force; 1960,
hnrold level1; 1901-05, 1970, ead 1977 data.                                              19(0 and 197  dre
Pe~nce tt                 tepy  forrin  nram  pee doy) - Protein  otr  of pe-cpiot           Peecieiorhr   cecrI    ntnt, mao, and fenar   Paritripa ao
nec  orci  of fodcrdy.  .et ppyly of food ia defitad as abRn.-t                            acivity rates ar       wuertoda   ual   oendreol  laorforea
quitretra   f on all coutries eobliabhd by US0DA provide for etugm_                          penota.gen of  otil., male nad f_mle popaaio   f ohego  respetively;
Ieon-c of 60 gram  of toto1 prorein yen day end 2t gram  of.animal ond                      1960, 1970, ecd 1979 date,    ea   are. .baadu  ILO'  p"Iticp             er
pulse P ccnin.  of which 10 gnaws aboud be animal prtetin.Teaeeuad-                          relcigg-e    tyotu-  of the Pcplnu,edln   Iernd 
an-os   i poaeo  o   vrg  fo   hooni,crn d by reAi   nbath  Third                         crnnclcedu-Rto      ai   fPopltoncdr10ed".edoe
World Pond Survy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1917 dan.                                                no  the tc-a  lab-r f-re
Per .-ita -otein au-ni frm        -lmlad ruit     Pr   i  sapyly of fod de-
rived fro  enio1s and poise  to gRam_ erdy  190-65, 1970 and 1977 dar.                   bNCst DISTIkIBtiTION
CIld (see  1-4) Mota.litytoe(e thousand)  A- -Ioe  deaths Pon  hrusa..d in                   Peceeo   fPior  sumo (hb"h It ceh sod,7lied) - tR-ic-d bynlrirs
age R_a  1_4 your, to otda  to thie ag   rrr  forma   PaeoiceoR-                               5p.ercent R  iha   0pret   n               0pret.Pad  ooet_0  erot
cresdons derived fr-  ilif   oes  1960, 1970 and 1979 dstu.                                  of househlds.
HEALTHf                                                                                        POVERTY 1TARGE1 GROIPS
Life Flapectonoy - Birth (years)d-tA-enogo nuber of prone cf life    rminiag                   Thr follonig -cimatre ar  v-ny uppr-intn   - -iue  of puv.orty I-velo,
on birth; 196.' 1970ad  1970 des                                                               en d rould ho ircr-p-trd etb  rousider-ble   Oti
lafeat Mortality tote  _r_n  ..ucd  - A-Inu  de-tba of minute under.. .c y..                  fEntittd hhrlotr P-1ory 1nc-  Level (US) nor cerice) - orb. ened rural-
otf age per t1housan.d lIon hinihe..         1            b,   A4u                              Ahar1urs pcvonny inco-  1-o) in thu  i-on  levol hb a  hbib a minimal
Acces to Sefe  ae W   arettf  ocletol total,- thn,an   url     ontc iti...elyp adrquutr diet plu recrila ot -f1                                         i-quire-ots ia ont
"M    :,PP Y.(L  h.        t'...         .i  t,  .11 ) ..            -erimoce Iutloridce Povorc-d?--y 1ucr  Level (USo -te -etic    -urbac acd nu -1
e   -r 0h as that fro  poece  hReon,sres   adentr                      l)0                  ..ne  reltiv   pvty income ive  ta  c-third of an..go per rspita
per-etrgee of theirepetv  populations.                 -usubecareaeyapulic                                                                     1it                        .
fruaat  or -stadpost loctetd rot mor  then 200  etnre f-c  a ho... may hr                      lenl-It  sdjuatneec ion big-  -t ra  of living to urbecaes
considered ashao ithin resonble  res  oft the  house.  I   ae   rs                         amme   oaotnri  Ahanine   oenrti-cma Lel(errn-ubo
reaomnt  aceseuOtpyoo   i   oewiec   ehn   ntehae dad rual - -Pnc                                                       of popu1lacin  (-rbo  ead rrl   h   c   eei
donthere to sped a disproypentiua.te Porn of the day in fetchIng the                        oo"
family' water.. reds.
pretgsof theire-pectine populati-n     siErst disposalma-y it-lude
the coletoned disposal , nith on eirhut tretmoit, cf hu-.o-t-a                                                                      Ecoronic end Social late Dicinior
and  waewtpby mate-h rs  sy.tt               or the ae cf pit privies aed  imia                                               Ec-roic Mel yam  and Projections Dp-aemo-
len irstallattas.                                                                                                                                 toy 1091
Poonlatinnrphsca  - Puoaindirided by authe  uf p-eticiug pbysi-
casq-oaltitd from omdical ahool tsi -uivrity leve.
Porleio tn arina cenor   Peuaio  divided by cobrn of practicing
moleandnsfo1egruduateou...e. cr-cic-Ions- ,ed a..siaternurr



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                       Page 4 of 5
NICARAGUA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.453,952
GNP Per Capital:  (1979) US$660
Acount                  Average Annual Increase (%)                                Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$                (at constant 1980 prices)                                         (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 P/              1965-70         1970-75          1975-80                  1965            1970            1975            1980 P/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/               2133.9                   4.4             5.9            -6.2
Agriculture                           490.4                   2.7             5.8            -2.7                   25.1            24.9            22.5             23.0
Industry                              653.3                   7.1             7.3            -4.2                   23.7            25.7            29.4            30.6
Services                              990.2                   3.7             5.1            -8.1                   51.2            49.3            48.1            46.4
Consumption                             2161.4                   3.4             5.9            -2.8                   82.0            83.9             87.5          101.3
Cross investment                         431.0                   1.3             9.3           -13.4                    20.9            18.6            21.4            20.2
Exports of goods and NFS                 507.7                   3.2             7.8            -9.3                   30.3             26.7            28.0            23.8
Imports of goods and NFS                 966.2                  -0.1            10.2            -4.7                   33.3             29.2            36.9           45.3
Gross national savings                     7.3                   3.0            -2.1           -13.0                   16.8             13.7             9.8             0.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(at current prices)
1970            1975            1980 P/
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports
Primary                                                     72.6            69.5             77.5
Manufactures                                                 27.4            30.5            22.4
Merchandise imports
Food                                                          5.1             4.0            10.3
Other consumer goods                                         23.9            19.6            18.7
Fuel                                                          5.7            14.1            19.6
Intermediate                                                 34.7            33.8            39.5
Capital                                                      30.5            28.5            11.8
1976            1977            1978            1979            1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
CDP deflator                                                    46.4            52.9            54.2            74.2            100
Exchange rate, a-erage                                           7.0             7.0             7.0             9.1              10
Export price index                                              45.2            55.9            52.6            73.4            100
Import price index                                              44.6            46.9            49.6            74.7            100
Terms of trade index                                           101.3           119.2           106.0            98.2             100
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970            1975            1980  P/
PUBLIC FINANCE b/
Corrent revenue                                                 10.3            11.7            18.8
Current expenditure                                              8.8             9.7            21.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      +1.5            +2.0            -3.0
Capital expenditure                                              3.0             8.0             7.9
Foreign financing                                                1.1             3.3             5.1
1965-70         1970-75         1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (% yearly)                                       4.4             5.9            -6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (% yearly)                            1.4             2.5            -9.0
Energy consumption growth rate (% yearly)                       16.1             9.6
ICOR                                                             4.82            3.84           -3.58
Marginal savings rate                                            0.24            0.04            0.34
Import elasticity                                               -0.02            1.73            0.76
a/ Market Prices
b/  Central Government                                                                                                                                        November 1981
F!  Preliminary
Not available



ANNEX I
- 27-                                                                        Pg  5
NICARAGUA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EX1R3NAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population:  2.453,952
GNP Per Capital: (1979) 11S660
Actual                                                          Projected
1971       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980 P/          1981       1982       1983         1981        1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
p-rts of goods and NFS                         446.0      609.7       718.8      726.9      677.7      507.7           553.7       703.1      912.4      1144.6        1396.2
Goods F.0.B.                                375.2      541.9      636.8       646.0      616.6      449.2           501.5       608.6      793.9      1000.2       1224.1
Non-factor --rvi-en                          70.8       67.8        82.0      80.9        61.1       58.5            52.2        94.5      118.5       144.4        172.1
Imports of goods and NFS                       587.5      588.4       838.3      690.5      424.8      966.2           861.2       943.5    1130.5       1337.7       1551.1
Goodn C.l.F.                                516.9      532.1      761.9      593.9       360.2      885.0           799.2       859.8    1020.1       1196.3       1388.7
Son-factor corvic                            70.6       56.3       76.4        96.6       64.6       81.2            62.0        83.7      110.4       141.4        162.4
Net exportn of goods and NFS                  -141.5        21.3    -119.5        36.4      252.9    -458.5           -307.5      -240.4    -218.1        -193.1      -154.9
Net factor ircome                              -59.0      -70.1       -73.0      -98.7    -110.2       -78.2          -127.4       -133.3    -160.1       -173.3      -182.1
Net transfors                                    16.7       10.2       11.2        9.4       91.6      123.0             57.3        28.0       31.1        34.4        38.0
C1orrot account bolaoce                       -103.8      -38.6    -181.3        -52.9      234.3    -413.7           -37,7 -6345.7    -347.2             -332,1      -299.1
Direct private in-estmnot (not)                  11.0       12.9       10.0        7.0        0          8                0           -          -          -            -
MLT loans (not)                                139.7        55.8      205.7       92.5       98.0      270.4           361.7        221.0      255.2       294.9       336.9
Disbhrsementn                               160.0       90.8      256.3      142.4      112.4       332.6          426.2        352.0      344.1       408.7       458.9
Anortization                                -20.3      -35.0      -50.6      -49.9      -14.4      -62.2           -64.5       -131.0      -88.9      -105.8      -122.0
Oth-r capital                                     1.4        9.6      -91.0    -270.9    -307.3        -50.8           -21.2        159.6      137.7        91.2        24.0
Can-e in  et r-servs (--increase)                31.7     -39.7        S4.6      224.3      -25.0      194.1            37.1       -34.9       -45.7       -54.0       -61.8
Int.rnati.nal roserven. cross 1/               135.7      158.5       164.8       61.0      148.3       80.8            70.5       121,7      167.4        221.4      283.2
Reserves as months of imports 21                  2.5        2.8        2.1        1.2        3.2        0.9             1.0          1.2        1.4         1,6         1.8
1970       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                                                    -         16.7       10.0       11.2        9.4       91.6
Gross dishbroenosts vf M1T loans                                                  41.5      160.0       90.8      256.3      142.4      112.4
Concensiosal                                                                      23.1       30.1       25.2       37.2       38.0       38.2
Bilat-ral                                                                     18.6        13.7      10.5       14.8        21.8       11.3
IDA                                                                            -          5.6        5.8         3.1       0.8        0.2
Othor esitilacerol                                                             4.5        10.9        8.9       19.2       15.4       26.9
Non-c-cessi.onl                                                                   21.4      129.9       65.6      219.2      104.3       74.2
Official export creditn                                                        2.0         2.2       22.7       78.3       50.4       21.4
IBRD                                                                           3.9       13.9        13.4       13.9        7.0        7.9
Other naltilaterol                                                             1.6        6.5         7.4       17.4       12.8       44.9
Private                                                                       11.9      107.4        22.1      109.7       34.1        -
I.XIFROAL 30BT
Debt o-tscanding a-d disb-rsrd                                                   155.3      589.4      655.4      864.0      961.4   1,100.7
Official                                                                     110.0      252.6      313.9      447.9      545.3      687.3
IBR0                                                                       26.6       52.3       63.8       75.2       80.2       84.6
IDA                                                                         3.0       13.4       19.2       22.3       23.1       23.2
Oth-r                                                                      80.4      186.9      230.9      350.4      442.0      579.5
Private                                                                       45.3      345.8      341.5      416.1       416.1     413.4
Undishbrsod Dnbt                                                                 67.0       222.9      305.6      237.8      240.4      303.3
DE01 SC5V101
Publin debt ser-vic  paynentn                                                     24.1       56.2       76.2      102.3       98.4       55.6
Inresu-t                                                                       7.2       35.9       41.2       51.7       48.4        41.2
Pay-nts on% roponts GNFS                                                         11.6        12.6       12.5       14.2       13.5        8.2
PFymonts dS 0 CNP                                                                  3.2        3.7        4.3        5.0        5.1        3.7
Anerape inecaest rate on nev loans (02
Official                                                                       5.5        4.9         6.1        6.9        5.3        6.6
Pri-ate                                                                        8.6        9.7        8.0        8.2        10.6        -
Average maturity of new Ioas (y-cas)
Official                                                                      27.8       28.8        18.8       17.6       20.7       22.6
Private                                                                        7.0        7.1        6.7        6.6        4.7         -
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE
IBRD DOS/total DOD                                                               17.1         8.7        9.7        8.7        8.3        7.7
IBR0  disburneneots/total gro-n dishbes-nents                                    13.2         8.7       14.8        5.4        4.9        7.0
IBRD debht oseirvi/otnl debt srvi-e                                              12.1        9.6         8.1        7.2        7.1       14.4
IDA D1D/total DOD                                                                  1.9        2.2        2.9        2.6        2.4        2.1
IDA dishb.rsemes.ltotal gross dinrsburrents                                       0           3.5        6.4        1.2        0.6        0.2
IDA debt service/total debt torsion                                               0          0.2         0.3        0.2        0.1        0.2
As Z of Debt Outstanding
at End of Mont Recent
Year (1979)
3EBT STRUCTURE
Maturity struc-tr of dobt c-tstanding (07
Mat-ritie- doe within 5 soars                                                                       31.4
Matrtities due within 1n years                                                                      44.9
Interest strrtu-re of debt oustnanding (0)
Interest doe within first yesr                                                                       7.4
P/ Preliminary
1/  Aft-r 1980 the net change in r-nerve ss assourd to be odded to the gross ratersr level.
27   Imports  -clade goods cod services.
Ne-ember 1981



-28-
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO NICARAGUA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1971-1980
(In Millions of Constant FY80 US Dollars) 1/
IBRD/IDA    IDB      CABEI 2/  USAID          TOTAL
Transport                      34.8       73.4     111.7       8.5         228.4
Power                          95.0       30.2      22.5      24.1         171.8
Education                      17.7        -         -        10.4          28.1
Health                          -          -          -        3.8           3.8
Housing                         -          -         18.5       -           18.5
Agriculture                    19.8       98.9      18.9        -          137.6
Manufacturing                   -          -          2.0       -             2.0
Water & Sewage                 34.5       81.7        -         -          116.2
Other                         102.6     125.4       82.4    249.5          559.5
304.4     409.6      256.0    296.3        1,266.3
1/ IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustment.
2/ Excludes operations with the private sector.
November 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
1/
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS   (As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                               US$ Millions
Credit                                                       Amount (Net of Cancellations)
No.      Year         Borrower            Purpose          Total    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty Loans and Three Credits fully Disbursed               115.2    33.6
1244       1976      Government         Education             11.0       -         4.0
1402       1977      ENALUF (now INE)  Power                  22.0       -         7.3
1495       1978      Government         Rural Sanitation        3.0      -         2.0
1496       1978      Empresa Aguadora  Water Supply
de Managua                             10.1       -        1.9
(now INAA)
1785       1980      Government         Agro-Industry
Rehabilitation      20.0      -         2.2
965       1980      Government         Urban Reconstr.                22.0        7.3
1081       1981      Government         Pre-investment Fund             5.0       4.6
1983       1981      INAA               Water Supply
Engineering          3.7      -         3.7
2028       1981      Government         Industrial
Rehabilitation      30.0      -        30.0
Total                                                   215.0    60.6
of which has been repaid                               49.8      0.3
Total now outstanding                                   165.2    60.3
Amounts sold                         5.6
of which has been repaid           5.6                   -        -
Total held by Bank and IDA                              165.2    60.3
Total Undisbursed                                                           63.0
1/   Includes exchange adjustments



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1981)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
--(US$ Millions)---
1968     Textiles Fabricato de         Textile Mill          1.00      1.07    2.07
Nicaragua, S.A.
(FABRITEX)
1976     Nicaragua Sugar                Sugar Mill           6.50         -    6.50
Estates Limited (NSEL)
1976     Posada del Sol                Hotel                 0.70      0.20    0.90
Total Gross Committed                                      8.20      1.27    9.47
Less Cancellations, Repayments and Sales                   4.33      1.07    5.40
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          3.87      0.20    4.07
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of September 30, 1981)1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln  1244        Second Education Project:  US$ 11.0 Million of June 15, 1976:
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
About 164 out of the 222 rural primary schools and all secondary
schools included under the project are under construction and
are about 70% complete. Forty other rural schools were tendered,
but no bids were received due to difficult accessibility of the
project sites. The Government has recommended deletion of the
remaining 18 rural schools, which were to be built in an area
to which there is no access at this time. Construction of the
rest of the rural schools is recommended through force account.
In place of the deleted rural schools, the Government has
requested construction of three additional secondary schools
in regions with greatest need. The Bank has approved this
request. Equipment and furniture have been tendered, and
contracts have been approved. The teacher training and fellow-
ship programs are proceeding satisfactorily. Estimated total
project cost overruns are now down to about 5% (against 10%
estimated in the last quarter). This reflects savings due to
participation of the communities in construction. Disburse-
ment is about 65% of the loan proceeds. The performance of the
project unit has been satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not pur ort to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses ?n project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Ln. 1402        Ninth Power Project:  US$22.0 Million of April 22. 1977;
Effective Date: October 27, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project had a slow start because of delays in hiring
consultants, difficulties in awarding supplier contracts
and engaging contractors and because of ENALUF's (now INE)
increasingly tight financial situation. These earlier diffi-
culties were partly a consequence of the political disturbances
which ended with a change of Government in July 1979. The cost
of the project, originally appraised at US$32.3 million, is now
estimated to be US$45.7 million. After the war, modifications
in the project were agreed with the new Government and INE.
They consisted of a reduction in the Bank's share of some
parts of the project (financing for which was assumed by CABEI)
to allow the Bank to finance a portion of the local and foreign
costs of reconstruction of installations damaged during the
war, and finance replenishment of INE's inventory of distribution
equipment and local costs of some original project components.
Since the end of the war, procurement activities under the project
have continued to be slow. The tariff and sector organization
studies, which were part of the project, have not been restarted.
Because of reduced sales and increased operational expenses,
largely due to increased fuel cost and hiring of additional
personnel, INE continues to face serious financial problems.
Collection performance, which was very poor during and immediately
after the war, has improved much more slowly than expected.
Effective January 1981, electricity tariffs were increased and,
on average, they are now about US$0.108 per kw/h. This rate is
considered satisfactory. Tariff subsidies to the productive
sectors have been substantially eliminated as of January 1981.
Ln. 1495        Rural Sanitation Project:  US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Following the war and in view of the changed responsibilities
of the Ministry of Health and INAA, the Government presented
to the Bank a detailed proposal for the modification of the
project scope and the institutional arrangements required for
the Project. The amendments to the project proposed by the
Government have been put into effect.



- 32 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Ln. 1496       Managua Water Supply III Project:  US$10.1 Million of
January 30, 1978; Effective Date:  May 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was restructured in October 1979, by eliminating some
components which were not of high priority under current circum-
stances. The resulting savings were used to finance replacement
of equipment destroyed during the war and to increase the
financing of local costs and interest during construction.
Although the borrower (INAA) has endured a critical financial
position, the company is in the process of recovery.
Ln. 1785       Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project:  Loan US$20.0
Cr.  966       Million, Credit US$ 10.0 Million of January 4, 1980; Effective
Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
One half of the Loan/Credit was allocated to replanting of
expropriated farmland, reconstruction of war damaged private
farms and a coffee renovation project. Disbursements under the
agricultural component were much faster than expected, while
utilization of funds earmarked for industry was slower. To
satisfy the urgent demand for funds in agriculture, US$7 mil-
lion of the US$15 million earmarked for industry was reallo-
cated to the agricultural component.
The balance of the Loan/Credit was allocated to the rehab-
ilitation of industrial enterprises to enable them to regain
prewar levels of employment, output and exports, through
the repair or replacement of fixed installations. All funds
under this loan/credit have been committed.
Cr. 965        Urban Reconstruction Project:  US$ 22.0 Million of January 4,
1980; Effective Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The Municipal Reconstruction Component (US$6.8 million) is
proceeding on schedule; most repair works on streets, public
spaces and utilities have been completed. Major reconstruc-
tion of markets and other municipal buildings is underway and
proceeds satisfactorily, due in large part to the quality of
the technical teams of the Ministry and Municipalities. The
Small Scale Enterprise Component is now completely disbursed
(US$3.2 million); the FED has made about 3,200 loans including
numerous small enterprise loans handled by the Banco Popular



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
and BND. Progress on the Urban Transport Component (US$ 12.0
million) is also satisfactory; the bus route paving improvement
program is completed, and all buses have been delivered. The
technical assistance to the bus company is progressing satis-
factorily.  Total disbursements are at present near appraisal
estimates. All civil works and procurement are expected to be
completed by the end of 1981. However, the technical assistance
elements may extend to mid-1982.
Cr. 1081       Preinvestment Fund Project:  US$ 5.0 million of December 18,
1980; Effective Date: March 18, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Disbursements under the project have begun.
Ln. 1983       Water Supply Engineering Project:  US$3.7 million of June 3,
1981; Effective Date: August 31, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
Disbursements are expected to start shortly.
Ln. 2028       Industrial Rehabilitation Project:  US$30.0 million of July 15, 1981;
Effective Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Disbursement are expected to start shortly.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time to prepare project:                8 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    JRM/SAMU
(c)  First presentation to Bank:             July 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         February 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:             September 9, 1981
(f)  Planned deadline for effectiveness:  April 1, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Data
None.
Section III: Special Bank Conditions
(a) JRM has agreed that:
(i) Its financial and management policies will be reviewed
and a timetable of measures to be implemented furnished
to the Bank as part of the management assistance program
(para. 49);
(ii) Before undertaking any investments in excess of US$8
million in 1981 and US$2 million in the subsequent
years of project execution, over and above those included
in the proposed project, it will demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Bank that such investments are within
its implementing capacity and that sufficient funds are
available to carry them out without jeopardizing the
completion of the project (para. 53).
(iii) A plan and timetable for incorporating the construction
industry's participation in implementing the upgrading
work be furnished by June 30, 1982 (para. 55);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The Government has agreed that:
(i) It will at all times allow JRM to establish the taxes
and fees required to ensure that its revenues will be
adequate to provide for all expenses of operation,
maintenance and debt service, and to provide the necessary
counterpart funds for the project (para. 53);
(ii) The funds would be onlent to JRM at the same rate of
interest as to the municipalities participating in the
SAMU component (para. 54);
(iii) The funds would be onlent to SAMU on the same terms as
the Bank loan, and SAMU will onlend these, through BND,
to the municipalities, at a rate of not less than
15% ;the adequacy of SAMU's onlending rate will be
reviewed annually by SAMU and the Bank (para. 54); and
(iv) Counterpart funds for each year including SAMU's
operating costs will be deposited in a project account
at the Central Bank and will be at the disposal of
SAMU (para. 58);
tc) As conditions of effectiveness, the Government has agreed that:
(i) Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and JRM and
between the Borrower and SAMU will be executed (paras. 50
and 51);
(ii) SAMU and FED will have entered into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank defining FED's role as fiscal
agent for the Pilot Municipal Development Project (para. 51);
(iii) A special account in the Banco Central de Nicaragua will
be established for a working fund in the name of JRM
(para. 58); and
(iv) A separate project account for SAMU will be established
in the Banco Central de Nicaragua and the Borrower will
have deposited therein US$300,000 equivalent (para. 58).






IBRD415645
',                       HM'                                  or       MA~~dRCH 1981
8                                                          MA
F F  F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
F  :F        F'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z,
-     o8'm0t9F                               nerNI,,i..W, ~.'
----fi    950,                                                          F                                B-
4-~~~~~r
F               *~~~~~~~~~~~   F  '                 El~~~~~~~~~~~~~ElSI
Mr                                 OOTAL
a  L <               RFFO7Sb-, FFB
J  &__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'F  SF'FGFFFF,lb eanSe
I.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f  L. L.b.,.d                                                                 $L~~~~R'.oF3ANDS
Poacific    Ocea                                  140FF9                                                                                      jilf
cu                         S..   Oh                 'St~~~~~8p-V ...OFF
LIZE~ ~ ~ ~~~M,sd                                F'OFF
K FOF,FEFFFF  LOB0FFF4      I                  faA,        ~      -' 



