LOAN NUMBER 2086 NI
Amending Agreement
(municipal Development Project)
betueen
REPUBLIC Op NICARåGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
SECRETARIA DE ASUNTOS HUNICIPALES
and
JUNTA DE RECONSTRUCCION DE MANAGUA
Dated                   4      f     , 1982
1i


﻿LOAN MUM 2086 NI
AMENDING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           e     -/, 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF NICARAGUA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND(DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SECRETARIA DE ASUNTOS MUNICIPALES (hereinafter called
SAMU) and JUNTA DE RECONSTRUCCION DE MANAGUA (hereinafter called
JRM).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement <hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement), dated February 4, 1982, between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Bank has made a loan to the Borrower in an amount in
various   currencies  equivalent   to  sixteen   million   dollars
($16,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
WHEREAS by a project agreement (hereinafter called the SAMU
Project Agreement), dated February 4, 1982, between the Bank and
SMU, SAMU has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
the SAMU Project Agreement.
WHEREAS by a project agreement (hereinafter called the JRM
Project Agreement), dated February 4, 1982, between the Bank and
JRM, JRM has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in the
JRM Project Agreement.
WHEREAS the Borrower, the Bank, SAMU and JRM have agreed to
certain changes in the Loan Agreement, in the SAMU Project
Agreement and in the JRM Project Agreement and, for such purpose,
have agreed to enter into this Agreement (hereinafter called the
Amending Agreement), upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. Article I of the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:
V,  (a) amend paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 by adding the word
"(i)" after the words "pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)", and by


﻿-2-
adding the following after the words "all schedules to the SAMU
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;":
"and "SAMU Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower, SAMU and the Munici-
palities of Chinandega and Le6n pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
(i1) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the SAMU
Subsidiary Agreement;";
(b) delete   paragraph  (f) of   Section 1.02 and add the
following new paragraphs (f) and (g):
"(f) "JRM Special Account" means -the account to be
opened by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement;
(g). "SAMU Special Account" means the account to be
opened by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement;"; and,
(c) renumber paragraphs (g) through (r) of Section 1.O2
respectively (h) through (s).
Section 1.02. Article II of the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:
(a) -delete "(a)" from paragraph (a) of Section 2.02;
(b). renumber paragraphs (b) through (f) of Section 2.02
respectively Section 2.03 (a) through (e); substitute references
to paragraphs (d) and (c) in the text of old paragraphs (c), (e)
and (f) of old Section 2.02 therefor refer nces to paragraphs (c)
and (b), respectively; and substitute the words "paragraph (a) of
this Section" in ,the text of old paragraph (f) of old Section
2.02 therefor the word6 "Section 2.02 of this Agreement";
(c) add a new Section 2.04 as follows:
"Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall, for purposes of
Part D of the Project, establish and maintain a Special
Account in Banco Central de Nicaragua, in the name of SAM,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Disburse-
ments from the Special Account shall be made exclusively to
finance the reasonable cost in the currency of the Borrower


﻿of goods and services required to carry out Part D of the
Project.
(b) The Bank shall, upon receipt of a withdrawal
request from the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Bor-
rower from the Loan Account and deposit in the SAMU Special
Account an amount in the currency of the Borrower not
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent. Thereafter, at the request
of the Borrower, the Bank shall further so withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit in
the SAMU Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to reimburse SAMU for payments made out of the SAMU Special
Account for expenditures for Pait D of the Project eligible
for, financing under this Agreement, but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the SAMU Special Account as
of the date of such request, shall not Ixceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $2,000,000. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise determine, each such deposit after the first
deposit shall be withdrawn by the Bank on behalf of the Bor-
rower from the Loan Account under Category (10) of paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same respec-
tive amounts as have been justified by the evidence support-
ing the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request by the
Borrower for a deposit by the Bank on behalf of the Borrower
into the SAMU Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank in respect of each payment made out of the SAMU
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the
Bank shall reasonabLy request, showing that the payment was
made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services
required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(d) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment
out of the SAMU Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible for financing from
the Loan Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
1!urnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and,
unless otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any
further deposit in the SAMU Special Account by the Bank,
deposit in the SAMU Special Account an amount equal to the


﻿4
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so elig-
ible or justified.
(e) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of
this Section, no further deposit in the SAMU Special Account
shall be requested by the, Borrower when the Bank shall have
determined that all further withdrawals from the Loan
Account may be made directly by the Borrower from the Loan
Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or when the
'total amount withdrawn from the Loan -Account for Part D of
the Project shall have reached the equivalent of $4,000,000,
whichever shall"be sooner.";
(d) renumber Section 2.03 through 2.09 respectively 2.05
thratigh 2.11;
(e) amend paragraph (b) of new Section 2.11 after last
comma to read ", C (iH), C(iii) and D of the Project."
Section 1.03. Artidle III of the Loan Agreement is amended
as follows:
(a) in Section -3.01 (a) replace the words "C (ii) and C
(iii)" by the words "C (ii), C (iii) and D";
(b) delete paragraph (c) of      Section 3.01 and add     the
following new paragraph (c):
"(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make part of the proceeds
of-the Loan available to SAMU at the same rate of interest
as the Loan, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SAMU under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) make part of
the proceeds of the Loan available to SAMU as a grant, under
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, SAMU, and the Municipalities of Chinandega and
Leon under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.";
and
(c) in Section 3.01 (d) add the words "and the SAMU
Subsidiary Agreement" after    the words "SAMU Subsidiary Loan
Agreement" wherever the latter appear.
Section 1.04. Article VI of the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:


﻿-5-
(a) in Section 6.01 (d) add the word "JRM" before the words
"Special Account".
Section 1.05. Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:
(a) Category (4) shall read "Initial Deposit in JRM Special
Account";
(b) Category (6)  shall read "Consultants' Services for Part
C of the Project";
(c) new Categories (10) and (11) are added as follows:
"(10) Civil works        2,000,000        50% of local
under Part D                        expenditures
of the Project
,(11) Initial Deposit    2,000,000
in SAMU Special
Account                           '; and
(d) the amount in Category (9) is amended to read "62,000".
Section 1.06. Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended by
adding a new Part D as follows:
"Part D: Municipal Reconstruction
I.   Reconstruction of: (i) the bridge of San Jose',
with an extension of about 80 meters; (ii) the bridge of La
Linea, with an extension of about 65 meters; and (iii) the
bridge of Don Leon, with an extension. of about 10 meters;
all located in the Municipality of Chinandega.
II.   Reconstruction of: (i) the bridge of Martinez,
with an extension of about 50 meters; (ii) the bridge of
Mayorga, with an extension of about 20 meters; and (iii) the
bridge of Los Angeles, with an extension of about 30 meters;
all located in the Municipality of Leon.
Section 1.07. Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:


﻿-6-
(a) amend the second sentence of paragraph B.1 by adding
after the word "more" the words ", except contracts under Part D
of the Project"; and
(b) amend paragiaph B.2 by replacing the words "to each
contract" by the words "to each contract under Part D of the
Project and each other contlact".
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. The SAMU Project Agreement is amended as
follows:
(a) amend paragraph (B) of the first whereas of the
preamble to the SAMU Project Agreement by adding after the words
"conditions therein set forth; and" the following:
"by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, SAMU and the Municipalities of Leo'n and Chinandega,
part of the proceeds-of the Loan will be made availAble to SAMU
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and"
(b) the words "Parts B, C (ii) and C (iii) of the Project"
are amended to read "Parts B, C (ii), C (iii) and D of the Pro-
ject" wherever the former appear in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 2.01, in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section 2.08, in para-
graphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.10, in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 4.01 and in Section 4.02.
(c) Section 2.09 is amended by (i) adding the words "and
k under the SAMU Subsidiary Agreement." after the words "under the
SAMU Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and before the words "Except as
the Bank shall"; and (ii) adding the words "or the SAMU Sub-
sidiary Agreement" after the words "waiving the 'SAMU Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" and before the words "or any provision thereof."
(d) Section 2.10 is amended by: (i) deleting the words "and
under the SAM Subsidiary Agreement" in paragraph (a) and sub-
stituting therefor the words ", under the SAMU Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and under the SAMU Subsidiary Agreement"; and (ii)
deleting the words "and under the SANU Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment." in paragraph (b) and substituting therefor the words ",
under the SAMU Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the SAMU
Subsidiary Agreement."


﻿-7-                        a
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. The JRM Project Ag eement is amended by adding.
the word "JRM" before the words "Special Account" wherever the
latter appear.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Amending Agreement shall not become effec-
tive until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been fur-
nished to the Bank that:
(a) the SAMU Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, SAMU and the Municipalities of Chinandega
and Leon;
(b)  the SAMU Special Account has been opened; and
r   (c) the Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower, SAMU and
JRM, in accordance wit bits terms.
Section 4.02. As part 'of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 4.01 of the Amending Agreement, the Borrower,
SAMU, JRM and the Municipalities of Chinandega and Leon shall
furnish to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that:
(a) the Amending Agreement has been "iUly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Bor-
rower, SAMU and JRM and is legally binding upon the Borrower,
SAMU and JRM in accordance with its terms;.and
(b), the SAMU Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, SAMU and the Municipalities of
Chinandega and Leon and is legally binding upon the Borrower,
SAMU and the Municipalities of Chinandega and Leon, in accordance
with its terms.
Section 4.03. The Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required under
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the Amending Agreement.


﻿-8-
IN WITN SS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representati es théreunto duly authorized, have caused this
Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first Eabove written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPÑENT
By
Regional Vice President
Lat America and the Caribbean
SECRETARIA DE ASUNTOS MUNICIPALES
By
Authorized Representative
JUNTA DE Ri7CONSTRUCCfJN DE MANAGUA
By          i
Authorized Representative


﻿0         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto,
this /7day of          0 , 98.
FOR SECRETARY


