OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2086 NI
LDOCUMENTS
JRM Project Agreement
(Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JUNTA DE RECONSTRUCCION DE MANAGUA
Dated                              ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2086 NI
JRM PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   Arv   .                    , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRWTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and JUNTA DE RECONSTRUCCION DE MANAGUA (herein-
after called JRM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that JRM
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JRM, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
JRM on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS JRM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) JRM shall carry out Parts A and C (i) of
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with


﻿-2-
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and municipal management
practices.
(b) JRM shall carry out Part A of the Project in such
low-income neighborhoods of Managua as the Bank and JRM shall
agree.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist JRM in strengthening its
financial management capabilities and in carrying out Part C
(i) of the Project, JRM shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) JRM shall: (i) furnish to the Bank, for comment, not
later than June 30, 1982, the report of such consultants,
including 'their recommendations; and (ii) carry out Part C (i)
of the Project in a timely manner satisfactory to the Bank,
taking into account the above mentioned recommendations and
comments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) JRM undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by JRM to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, JRM shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) JRM shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 3-
(b) JRM shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and C (i) of the
Project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived from
them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Parts A and C
(i) of the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A and C (i) of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Parts A and C (i) of the
Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by JRM of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower, the Bank may publish a descrip-
tion thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
JRM,. JRM shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Parts A and C (i) of the
Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by JRM and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
(e) JRM shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all sites, works, and records and documents of JRM relevant to the
Project.
Section 2.06. JRM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the JRM Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, JRM shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the JRM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿Section 2.07. (a) JRM shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts A and C (i) of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the JRM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) JRM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A and C (i) of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by JRM of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the JRM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. JRM shall: (i) by June 30, 1982, carry out
a study on how the private construction industry of Nicaragua
may participate in the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
and (ii) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank, for
comment, the recommendations of such study.
Section 2.09. JRM shall furnish to the Bank, not later
than December 15, 1981, and by December 15 in each year thereafter
until Parts A and C (i) of the Project have been completed, its
updated Investment Plan for the following three-year period.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JRM
Section 3.01. JRM shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance with sound
business and financial practices, and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and
competent staff.
Section 3.02. JRM shall, during the execution of the Project,
before undertaking investments in excess of $8,000,000 equivalent
in 1981 and $2,000,000 equivalent in each year thereafter, over
and above the investments included in Parts A and C (i) of the
Project, demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Bank that such
additional investments are within its implementing capacity and
that sufficient funds are available to carry out such additional
investments without adversely affecting the carrying out of Parts
A and C (i) of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. JRM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) JRM shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) JRM shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate
accounts, including separate accounts in respect of expenditures
on account of which withdrawals were requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of
JRM in respect of Parts A and C (i) of the Project.
(c) JRM shall retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing expenditures for Parts A and C (i) of the
Project on account of which withdrawals were requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.02. JRM shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements), including the Special Account and the sepa-
rate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to


﻿- 6 -
make payments for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works and services were eligible for financ-
ing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out of
Parts A and C (i) of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of JRM and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, JRM
shall, until the Project has been completed:
(i) take all action, including the revision of the
rates of municipal taxes and fees, necessary to
ensure that its total revenues from such taxes and
fees in any fiscal year of JRM are not less than
the sum of expenditures for administration, opera-
tion and maintenance of its services and properties
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash
charges), service of its debts (including interest
and other financial charges as well as any payments
or principal not refunded by a new borrowing
incurred expressly for such purpose) and the
expenditures for Part A of the Project (other than
those financed from the Loan), incurred in such
fiscal year;
(ii) not later than three months after the end of each
such fiscal year, furnish to the Bank a report
showing its revenues, expenditures and debt service
for the fiscal year just ended, which shall include
a forecast for the next succeeding fiscal year;
and
(iii) if such forecast indicates that the revenues will
not be sufficient for the purposes provided in
paragraph (i) above, indicate, together with the
report referred to in such paragraph, the actions
it proposes to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of JRM thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify JRM thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Junta de Reconstrucci6n de Managua:
Junta de Reconstrucci6n de Managua
Apartado Postal 141
Complejo C1vico Camilo Ortega Saavedra
Managua, Nicaragua
Telex:
JRMANAUA 1421


﻿-8 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of JRM may be taken or executed by
Ministro de la Junta de Reconstrucci6n de Managua or such other
person or persons as Ministro de la Junta de Reconstrucci6n de
Managua shall designate in writing, and JRM shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByN. A^"*, $34*t4
ByI
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
JUNTA DE RECONSTRUCCION DE MANAGUA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


