Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3188-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
STOPANSKA BANKA ZDRUZENA BANKA - SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 2, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatlon. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT$*
Calendar 1980           November 11, 1981
Currency Unit          Yugoslav Dinar
US$1                   Din. 24.911                   Din, 38.66
Din. I                 US$ 0.040                     US$ Q,026
Din. 1,000             US$ 40.14                     US$ 25.87
Din. 1,000,000         US$ 40,142.00                 US* 25,867.26
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                   -   Basic Organization of Labor
ERR                    -   Economic Rate of Return
FRR                    -   Financial Rate of Return
GMP                    -   Gross Material Product
IC                     -   Industrial Credit (refers to earlier Bank
loans)
ICB                    -   International Competitive Bidding
LDR                    -   Less Developed Republics
MDR                    -   More Developed Republics
PBS                    -   Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka
SBS                    -   Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka - Skopje
SDK                    -   Seuzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or Social
Accounting Service
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans and Project Summary
Borrowers:           Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka-Skopje (SBS)
(Each Borrower being a party to a separate Loan
Agreement with the Bank).
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amounts:                                            US$ million equivalent
PBS                          33.0 (both
including
SBS                          33.0 capitalized
front end)
fee)
66.0
Beneficiaries:       Export-oriented and energy conservation/conversion
projects in the industrial sector of the Republics
of Bosnia-Herzegovina and of Macedonia.
Terms:               The loans would bear interest at 11.6 percent per
annum. Repayment would be according to schedules
reflecting the composite amortization schedules of the
sub-loans financed. Allowing up to three years for
commitment of individual subloans and a maximum
repayment period of 15 years, the two Bank loans would
thus be repaid in 18 years. The technical assistance
,component ($300,000) will be repaid in 15 years
including two years' grace period.
On-Lending Terms:   Sub-loans would be each repaid over a period not
exceeding 15 years from the date the sub-loan
agreements are signed, including grace periods of
normally up to three years and in cases of joint
ventures and energy saving sub-projects, up to five
years. The banks would on-lend the proceeds at 12.85
percent per annum with the sub-borrowers carrying the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The project is designed to assist export-oriented
industries through the provision of foreign exchange
and help PBS and SBS increase their role in the
promotion of export-oriented sub-projects. The project
also includes a "pilot" type component to support the
Government program for energy savings and increased
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



use of domestic energy resources inindustry in the two
Republics. This would involve a program of studies to
identify energy conservation/conversion sub-projects
which may be financed under this or subsequent
industrial credits. Other objectives of the project
are to contribute to the institution-building of the
borrowing banks, i.e., PBS and SBS, and to encourage
joint ventures and co-financing. The project also
includes a technical assistance component of $300,000,
which will be equally split between the Borrowers, to
identify and develop energy conservation/conversion
sub-projects in industry. The risks associated with
the loans relate to meeting the export targets by                 a
beneficiary enterprises. However, provisions included
under the loans and Yugoslavia's policies to foster
industrial exports should reduce the risk to within
acceptable limits.
Final Date for
Sub-Project
Submissions:            December 31, 1984.
Free Limit;             US$2.0 million for each sub-loan up to an aggregate of
60 percent of each Borrower's loan. However, the
first five export-oriented sub-loans and the first
three energy saving sub-loans will be treated as above
the free limit.
Estimated                       1982      1983       1984      1985      1986     1987
Disbursements:                                       ($ million)
PBS Loan
Annual                       0.5       4.8       9.7       8.1       6.5       3.4
Cumulative                   0.5       5.3      15.0      23.1      29.6      33.0
SBS Loan
Annual                       0.5       3.4        8.1      9.7       6.5       4.8
Cumulative                   0.5       3.9      12.0      21.7      28.2      33.0
Staff Appraisal
Report                 Report Number 3780-YU, dated April 1, 1982
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS
ONE EACH TO PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
AND STOPANSKA BANKA ZDRUZENA BANKA - SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
loans, one each for the equivalent of $33.0 million (including capitalized
front end fee) to Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS) and
Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje (SBS), both with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance the foreign
exchange cost of investments in export oriented industries and industries
which would use energy savings devices. The loans also include a technical
assistance component for the identification of energy conservation/
conversion sub-projects. The loans would bear interest at 11.6 percent per
annum. Repayment would be according to schedules reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed. Allowing three years for
commitment of individual sub-loans and a maximum repayment period of 15
years, the two Bank loans would thus be repaid in 18 years. The technical
assistance component ($300,000) will be repaid in 15 years including two
years' grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and
November 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism
and the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited
Yugoslavia in November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export
Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 5, 1980. In November 1980 an economic mission visited
Yugoslavia and its report entitled "Raising Productivity in Yugoslav
Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 3, 1981. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has



- 2 -
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the Federation to the Republics, autonomous
provinces and Communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over the socially-owned means of production has been increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest production
units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of the
system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic
policy while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy
implementation. Beginning with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these
instruments have been used to augment more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized-decision making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a
non-hierarchical basis. An exhaustive interchange of information and
several iterations are required to achieve consistency among the plans of
economic units concurrent with broader social objectives. Once consistency
is achieved, economic units enter into legally binding medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the state is permitted to
intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1980 is estimated to be US$2,620 at 1980
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy between 1960 and 1980 with the share of
industry in GDP increasing to around 45% while agriculture has declined to
about 12%. The past two decades have also been associated with the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1980
merchandise exports and imports grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



-3-
terms, respectively; much of this was with markets in the convertible
currency areas.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1.  In addition to these interregional disparities there
are large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, whicb is financed tbrougb a tax on all social
sector enterprises in the economy.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector bas increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence
of these differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector
employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the
working age population caused by relatively bigh population growtb in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak
in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since
1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the bost countries,
this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing
added pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Unemployment rates bave risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in
1980. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because
population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all mucb bigher in the LDR. In 1980
unemployment rates ranged from 28.0% in Kosovo to 1.4% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.       Yugoslavia was successful in maintaining a relatively bigb growth
rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first four
years of the plan GDP growtb exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of growth
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to total resident labor force would have been
about 9.0% in 1980.



was, however, markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following slow
growth in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
whicb resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when
the world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's
balance of payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special
developments in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported
oil, poor agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a
consequence the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments
reached $3.7 billion in 1979, or about 5.4% of GDP. Faster growth and
renewed international inflation also led to significant worsening in
domestic inflation. In response to these developments, the tone of
macro-policy became sharply contractionary since late 1979, and economic
management has been dominated by the goal of improving the balance of
payments.  As a result of the determined application of a stabilization
program, the current account deficit was reduced to less than $0.8 billion
in 1981 compared with a target level for that year of $1.8 billion largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the
program (which is being supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF)
included a cumulative 57% devaluation of the dinar between June 1980 and
December 1981, tight monetary and fiscal policy, reductions in real
personal incomes and cutbacks in investment, particularly for non-economic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross domestic product is estimated to have grown by
about 2% both in 1980 and 1981.
10.      The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80
plan was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980,
this followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years.
The plan placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials
and intermediate goods to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while non-priority
sectors, particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than
projected. Climatic factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in
agricultural output, which rose between 1976 and 1980 at an average annual
rate of 1.6% (compared to a target of 4%).
11.      Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, exceeding the 8.0% plan target.  This investment drive was
successful in raising the overall share of the priority sectors in total
investment; however, within the industrial sector investment in
non-priority branches grew at a faster rate than planned. The share of
gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in 1979.
In 1980 and 1981, real investment is estimated to have declined by 1.6% and
4.5% respectively, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. Overall social
sector employment growth in the plan has been rapid, at about 4% per annum
(compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been even faster in the LDR
where the bulk of the structural unemployment is located. Despite these
achievements, the combined impact of net immigration, demographic factors
and the contraction in the rural labor force increased the ratio of
job-seekers to social sector labor force.



-5-
12.      Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the 1976-80
plan period. Stabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced
the inflation rate (as measured by the retail price index) from 26% in 1975
to 9% in 1976. The subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied
by a resurgence of inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in
1979, in part due to increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it
increased to 22%. The sharp reduction in economic activity in 1980
affected the inflation rate much less than had been hoped, and the rate of
inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17% that had been projected. Part of
the deterioration in price performance can be attributed to the higher
prices of imported goods, resulting from both a higher rate of
international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of the dinar.
There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in order to
promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as price
increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, witb real personal income in the social
sector falling by 7%. Altbougb real personal incomes declined by a further
6% in 1981, prices increased by 39%. Most of the inflationary pressure
occurred in the first six months of 1981, bowever, wben the retail price
index increased at an annual rate of 56%. Stricter price controls were
introduced during June 1981. These togetber witb the austere stabilization
program, bad a significant effect on the rate of inflation and it is
estimated that the rate of inflation slowed to about 25% during the last
half of the year. The Government has announced its intention to curb
inflation further with an official target of 15% for 1982.
13.      As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growtb
rate of 8%. Wbile import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan,
primarily by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export
performance however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when
merchandise exports grew by an estimated 11%, export growtb over the plan
was about 4.6% per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of
this export shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of
trade and other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers'
remittances were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative
current account deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than bad been
planned. The Government's program to put the balance of payments on a more
secure footing was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded
with the IMF in June 1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This
standby was replaced in January 1981 by a three year program for a total
amount of SDR 1662 million. The Government's annual plan for 1982
continues to stress stabilization of the economy in pursuit of balance of
payments adjustment. The current account deficit for 1982 is targeted at
$0.5 billion; this is to be achieved through export growth of 8.5% coupled
with a 0.5% limit on the growth of overall import volume, and a reduction
in imports of capital goods. Social product is expected to grow by 2.5%;
this slow growth will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts
in fixed capital formation.



-6-
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on the economic growth and the
authorities' decision to limit its external borrowing the plan has been
substantially revised. Although the detailed targets for production and
investment have still to be finalized, the main strategic elements of the
plan have already been enunciated. The revised plan projects continued
slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports; this strategy
also implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation.
As before, the plan projects simultaneous import substitution and export
promotion. It aims to achieve a current account surplus before the end of
the plan period. The priorities stressed are the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals, basic
chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
15.      Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the past plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasis is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities including small-scale enterprises.
16.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning.  Financial transfers between
Republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the plan lay particular stress on encouraging social sector
enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments
in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could make a
significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within the
LDR by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial know-how
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.      Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows declined from $4.2
billion in 1980 to an estimated $3.2 billion in 1981. Total medium- and
long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about $16.6
billion at the end of 1981 while short-term debt at the end of September
1981 stood at about $1.8 billion. Total foreign exchange reserves at the
end of 1981 stood at $3.4 billion.  There was some restocking of official                a
foreign exchange reserves in 1981, and at the end of the year these
amounted to $1.6 billion, or roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the IMF will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
sbort-term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves further
in 1982.
18.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in
recent years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the
eurocurrency market have become increasingly important for financing the



economy's foreign exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal
source of non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will
continue to require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to
achieve its medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances
the debt service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 15%
between 1976 and 1980, while the debt service ratio in convertible
currencies averaged 18% over the same period. The aggregate debt service
ratio is not expected to increase substantially during the next medium term
plan (1981-85). Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism
and its demonstrated capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when
these are called for, it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
19.      The proposed project would be the 71st operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia, which would increase total World Bank lending to Yugoslavia to
$3,119.7 million. Of this, approximately 40% ($1,248.4 million) has been
for 23 operations in the transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 7 for
railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and
two for a port project. Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on
infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, five
power loans, one telecommunications loan, three water supply and sewerage
and three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly focussed on
the agriculture sector for which 13 operations totalling $766 million have
been made. Twenty loans amounting to $410 million (about 13% of the total)
have also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and
the first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976.
20.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance (disbursements ds a
percentage of total commitments) deteriorated somewhat in 1981 largely due
to a shortage of local funds arising from financial constraints. Following
an implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with Borrowers in the
Fall of 1981, performance has markedly improved in the first quarter of
1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares most
favorably with Bank-wide and regional averages and with most other
countries of a similar per capita income.  Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are
to: (i) to increase exports and improve the efficiency of import
substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic investment with a
view to increasing production with the more limited investment resources
available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv) reduce
unemployment, particularly in the LDR. It is obvious that not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has



-8-
increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys of
the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the
1981-85 Development Plan. As in the last plan period, the Federal Government
agreed with its constituents on the level of domestic resources to be
channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (para. 7) as well as
the distribution of external resources including Bank lending. The
distribution of Bank lending was determined broadly on the basis of income
levels and population size of particular regions. Over the past five years,
almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through operations for
transportation, power, agricultural development and industrial credit. In
the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR through similar
operations is expected to continue.
23.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to
revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5), the
process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank
has therefore put increased emphasis on having an impact on the shaping of
the policy framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the
transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate past
successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a major
objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought through the
implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user studies
undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU approved March
15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas where
its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact has most
potential.
24.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities.  The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and forge banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank,
however, will remain the major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future. Its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is
regarded by foreign financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's
economic performance, policies and prospects. In its future lending to
Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put increased emphasis on co-financing.
However, in view of the present commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia
is facing and because of the country's complex banking and foreign exchange
allocation system, the extent and form of co-financing related to Bank
projects will have to be handled flexibly.



- 9 -
25.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about 9.0% of its
total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain
fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service
was 5.4% in 1981 and is projected to be about 6% by 1986.
26.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since tben, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of January 31, 1982, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $317 million gross and $154 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia are
to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c)
foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in
addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give special, although
not exclusive, emphasis to the less developed regions of the country.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL_SECTOR
A. The Industrial Sector
Industry_- Characteristics and Performance
27.      Industry has been one of the principal sources of Yugoslavia's
impressive economic growth since 1954; it has opened up the country to the
world economy, provided employment to the growing labor force and made a
major contribution to development, especially in the LDR. During 1971-80,
the industrial sector continued to grow very rapidly at 7.4 percent per
annum, which was one percentage point higher than the average growth for the
economy as a whole. In 1980, industry l/ accounted for 36 percent of GMP 2/
and generated 20 percent of employment. Industrial exports amounted to $8.5
billion or 95 percent of total merchandise exports. Industrial exports are
fairly diversified, with no one branch contributing more than 9 percent to
total merchandise exports. During the seventies industrial exports rose more
slowly than during the sixties, rising by 5 percent per year as against 8.5
percent in the previous decade. Industry became less export-oriented and the
share of exports in industrial output declined from over 11 percent in 1971
to 9 percent by 1979. The industrial structure of Yugoslavia is quite
diversified; large scale basic and capital intensive industries in minerals,
ferrous and non-ferrous metals, chemicals and pulp and paper play a major
role but there is also a well-developed manufacturing sector which produces a
wide range of capital, intermediate and consumer goods.
28.      Both the 1971-75 and the 1976-80 five-year plans called for changes
in the structure of industrial production, in conformity with a policy of
simultaneous import-substitution and export-promotion. Certain industrial
sectors including energy, raw materials, intermediate products and capital
1/ Industry is defined as including manufacturing and mining which in turn
includes coal, oil and gas.
2/ Gross material product (GMP) or social product excludes "non-productive"
(in Yugoslav terminology) services such as education, health,
administration, defense and other public services. Gross domestic
product (GDP) is approximately 14 percent higher than GMP.



- 10 -
goods were designated as priority sectors; as such they were to receive
preferential access to domestic and foreign sources of finance. Wbile
certain policy measures were introduced to stimulate industrial export
growth, primary emphasis was put on import substitution. In general moderate
protection has been provided to industrial imports; however, such protection
intensified in response to balance-of-payments difficulties, particularly
during the last Plan (para. 13). Investment in industry increased at an
annual rate of nearly 7 percent per year from 1971 to 1980. However, during
the first four years of the last Plan the priority industrial sectors
received only 49 percent of total industrial investment, compared with a
target of 63 percent.  The divergence between the planned and actual
distribution of investment can at least partly be ascribed to the
difficulties associated witb the new system of project planning and resource
allocation. Also, the incremental capital output ratio in industry rose from
3.6 percent during 1971-75 to 4.6 percent in 1976-80, pointing to an
increased capital intensity of industrial investment in processing industries
and some decline in overall efficiency. Industrial employment increased from
1.4 million to 2.2 million between 1971 and 1980; there was, bowever, a
decline in the elasticity of employment creation to industrial output.
29.      The industrial sector will play a central role in the adjustment
strategy of the Federal Social Plan for 1981-85. In line with the overall
slowdown in growth rates, the sector is presently targeted to grow at 5
percent per year compared witb the target of 8 percent in the last Plan and
6.9 percent average growth achieved during 1976-80; revisions of the Plan
currently underway are likely to reduce this target further. The sectors
designated for import substitution remain similiar to those of the last Plan,
although more stress is placed on import substitution in capital goods. The
new Plan, bowever, puts mucb stronger stress on export-orientation as a
source of growth than did the last Plan (see para. 32). There is also to be
greater stress on rationalization and efficiency in investment planning and
implementation, and completion of ongoing projects. Industrial investment is
planned to grow at a pace substantially lower than output with a target of
2.3 percent yearly in real terms (compared witb 1.5 percent average growth
for the country's total fixed capital formation), and substantially increased
allocations for the designated priority activities (energy, basic metals,
minerals and basic cbemicals, capital goods and export). Employment creation
is to be sought through the development of labor-intensive small and medium
scale industries, especially in the LDR. Proposed investment allocations for
specific branches of industry in the Federal and regional plans, are
generally in line with existing capacities and production targets, and the
choice of the priority sectors is in general economically sound. However, in
the capital goods sub-sector, specialization in specific areas wbere
Yugoslavia has experience and comparative advantage would be preferable to
emphasizing import substitution across a broad range of products.
Industry in the LDR
30.      Over the past 30 years, the sbare of industry in GMP grew faster in
the LDR than in the MDR. Although the LDR started with a considerably lower
sbare of industry after the Second World War, by 1980 the share of industry



- 11 -
in GMP was roughly the same (38 percent) in the two groups of regions.
However, industrial value-added in the MDR is twice that in the LDR on a per
capita basis. Because of the LDR's considerable wealth of natural resources
in mining and energy, basic industries bave played a very important role in
the economies of the LDR, implying a more capital intensive industrial
structure than for the MDR. As regards the two LDR wbicb will be the
beneficiaries of the proposed loans, Bosnia-Herzegovina has a relatively well
developed industrial sector, witb large capacity in basic industries (steel,
aluminium, metals, chemicals, woods) and a number of manufacturing
industries. Its commodity exports are already signficant -- over $1.2
billion or 14 percent of the country's total exports, and 17 percent of the
Republic's GMP in 1980 -- and include a wide range of metal products, wood
products and paper, chemicals, electrical machinery, leather and textiles.
The Republic Social Plan emphasizes export, based on the processing of local
raw materials and specialization, productivity increases in existing
industries and employment creation. In Macedonia, there are basic industries
for the production of raw materials - nickel, copper, lead, zinc, iron and
steel, chemicals and non-metallic minerals -- and manufacturing processing
industries in a variety of sectors. Commodity exports which are quite
diversified (metals, textiles, leather, footwear, tobacco, meat, transport
equipment, steel structures and metal products) amounted to $420 million in
1980 representing nearly 5 percent of the country's total commodity exports
and 13 percent of Macedonia's GMP.
Industrial Development Issues and Objectives
31.      After three decades of rapid development, Yugoslav industry
currently faces several problems. The main issue is the need for external
adjustment. Yugoslavia bas been successful in curbing the rate of growth of
its industrial imports over the 1970s. However, the incentives favoring
import substitution bave tended to generate a bias against exports resulting
in sluggish export growth. The slow growtb of industrial exports in the
1970s coupled witb rapidly rising costs of imported energy and deteriorating
terms of trade, caused the trade deficit to widen substantially . In view of
the present balance of payments situation and the limited prospects for
increasing the flow of remittances from Yugoslav workers in Western European
labor markets, it is vital for Yugoslavia to reduce its trade deficit by
increasing industrial exports, to optimize the processing of its natural
resources and to specialize in areas where it possesses a comparative
advantage. It is also essential for Yugoslavia to reduce, or at least limit
the growtb of its oil imports in the long run. In addition to developing the
country's own energy resources, this can be achieved by conserving energy in
industry, wbicb is the largest consumer, and by converting industries to
domestically-produced fuels, wbere this is economically justified.
32.      Policy-makers at botb the Federal and regional levels bave
recognized the need for increasing Yugoslavia's industrial exports, and this
is reflected in the respective Federal and regional social plans for
1981-85. The Federal plan envisages an 8 percent annual growtb target for
industrial exports and emphasizes greater export specialization. Considering
long-term trends in Yugoslavia's exports, its comparative advantage, the
markets available to it, and its overall industrial capacity, the plan's



- 12 -
export targets may be attained, although Yugoslavia will face stiff
competition on overseas markets. In 1980 and 1981 Yugoslavia has taken
active measures to stimulate exports by adjusting the exchange rate,
dampening the level of domestic aggregate demand and increasing the
availability of export credit. These moves need to be buttressed by changes
in the system of foreign exchange allocation as well as in the areas of
import protection, export incentives and promotion. Such measures, which are
under active consideration by the authorities, would help reduce past biases
towards the domestic market which have slowed Yugoslavia's export growth rate
in the seventies. Given such action it should be possible for the economy to
improve its export performance in line with the targets of the plan.
Nevertheless, it will require a concerted effort on the part of the
industrial sector to achieve sustained export growth rates of the magnitude
projected. As far as energy policy is concerned, priority has been given to
investment in coal and gas production and electricity generation based on
domestic energy sources. In addition a new policy for encouraging energy
conservation and fuel substitution in industry has been introduced.
33.      Another issue which faces the industrial sector is to increase its
contribution to the process of reducing the regional disparities in per
capita income and employment. During the 1976-80 Plan the relative position
of the LDR in terms of unemployment and per capita income did not
significantly improve, despite substantial resource flows from the MDR to the
LDR through the Federal Fund and budgetary transfers. Although the LDR
achieved a 1.4 percent higher rate of industrial growth than the MDR and a
0.4 percent faster rate of industrial employment growth, this performance was
considerably below plan objectives. The trade balance of the LDR is also
much less favorable than that of the MDR because of their limited exports and
relatively larger import requirements, particularly for investment. This
situation, combined with the need to increase the efficiency of investment in
the coming years compared to the performance in the 1960s and the 1970s in
the whole of the country, but particularly in the LDR, points to a need to
emphasize industrial development which is more oriented towards exporting and
employment creation. Finally, there is the need to raise capital and labor
productivity. Domestic joint ventures between LDR and MDR enterprises, which
have been seen as a major mechanism for raising LDR productivity and adjust
their industrial structure, have been slow to get off the ground. Recent
policy changes have been introduced which have significantly increased the
incentives to establish joint ventures and they are expected to play a more
important role in the process of regional development in the current 1981-85
Plan period. The proposed project is designed to help remedy some of the
above shortcomings.
34.      Enterprises within industrial sectors have tended to be centered in
a particular republic or province, and industrial coordination among regions
bas been limited. The orientation toward regional self-sufficiency in
investment decisions has resulted in a somewhat fragmented industrial sector,
duplication of facilities and excess capacity in certain branches, foregone
economies of scale and relatively slow growth in the productivity with which
resources are used. In addition, the close links among enterprises,
particularly those located in the same region, have on occasion inhibited
effective competition. The export drive of Yugoslav industry may result in
improvements in these areas. In order to meet the challenge of competing
effectively on foreign markets, Yugoslav industry will need to pay more
attention to: stimulating resource allocation according to comparative
advantages; increasing capacity utilization, and exploiting economies of



- 13 -
scale; and improving technology and productivity. Similarly, export
orientation would be greatly facilitated by equalizing export incentives
among industrial branches and reducing import protection (see para. 32);
this, in turn, would induce industries serving the domestic market to develop
according to comparative advantages and to increase their productivity. More
importantly, enterprises among regions would have added incentive to
coordinate and associate themselves through domestic joint-ventures to
achieve economies of scale, specialization and penetration of foreign markets.
35.      The Bank has an active economic policy dialogue with Yugoslavia on
matters of industrial policy. The reports on export performance and
policies, raising productivity in Yugoslav industry and small scale industry
(see para.2) dealt extensively with the country's industrial policy framework
and paid particular attention to the need to improve the incentives for
industrial exports. These reports were widely reviewed by the various
competent regional and federal agencies responsible for industrial policy
within Yugoslavia. In addition, under the terms of an agreement made in
connection with the Fifth Industrial Credit (ICV) Project (Loans Nos.
1909-1912 YU), the two banks participating under the proposed project have
prepared export studies which have helped in the identification of projects
that would be eligible for financing under the proposed loans. Also, as
agreed under ICV, the Bank conducts an annual review of interest rate policy
with the Yugoslav authorities. The proposed project builds on the lessons
drawn from the economic policy dialogue in a variety of ways. Specifically,
in line with the Bank's overall policy recommendations, it focusses
exclusively on export-oriented and energy conservation/conversion
sub-projects.
B. The Financial Sector
36.      Multipurpose banks (whose founders are their depositors and
borrowers), are the dominant form of financial intermediaries carrying out
all commercial and investment banking functions for all sectors of the
economy. The two proposed borrowers Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena
Banka (PBS) and Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka - Skopje (SBS), together with
their member basic banks, handle the bulk of investment and commercial
banking in their respective regions. In addition to these banks, the
financial sector includes the National Banks, which essentially perform the
role of central banks at the Federal and Regional levels, post office savings
institutions, investment loan funds and insurance institutions. A Federal
Credit and Banking Law, effective January 1978, changed the banks to a
three-tier organizational commercial banking structure consisting of
internal, basic and associated banks. An internal bank is essentially a
service organization established by BOALs (see para 3) within a Kombinat. A
basic bank may carry out all kinds of credit and banking operations in
Yugoslavia, within the framework of its own resources, and as such forms the
core of the restructured banking system. It can be founded by any social
legal entity. An associated bank is established as a legal entity through a
self-management agreement of two or more basic banks, its main function being
to concentrate resources for financing major investments and to carry on
foreign business transactions on behalf of its member basic banks. It also
administers the Federal Fund (see para. 7) allocations in its region. Both
PBS and SBS are associated banks.



- 14 -
37.      Resource Mobilization and Allocation.  Besides equity (founders'
fund) the resources of banks are made up of intermediated funds, i.e. sight
and term deposits of social and private sector enterprises, households and
other organizations, borrowings from other banks in Yugoslavia, and foreign
borrowing. In the case of banks in the LDR, such as PBS and SBS,
non-intermediated funds such as Federal and Regional funds are another major
resource. As to foreign commercial borrowings, the National Bank of
Yugoslavia has recently replaced the regional banks as the principal
borrower. In drawing up their Five Year Plan and allocating their funds,
regional banks follow decisions reached at enterprise, regional and federal
levels. This is in line with Yugoslavia's extensive planning system which
culminates in the conclusion of social compacts and self-management
agreements which have the force of law (see para. 4). At the stage of
investment decisions the banks have a key role to play in ensuring that the
projects presented by the enterprises are consistent with the plan priorities
in terms of sectors, locations, markets, technology, employment effects etc.,
correspond to the investment proposals initially agreed in the planning
process and are economically and financially viable.
38.      Total deposits have increased substantially over the past few
years. Most have short-term maturities and, although they use part of their
short term funds for long term investment, the banks have to rely heavily on
the Federal and Regional funds to meet the medium-and long-term domestic
investment requirements. The banks' other efforts in mobilizing foreign
resources are directed at attracting deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad and
obtaining foreign loans. They also issue guarantees in favor of machinery
suppliers. Foreign currency loans of banks such as PBS and SBS have
increased rapidly during the last few years to finance development projects.
Past Bank Industrial Credit Lending
39.      The Bank has thus far made five loans to associated banks in the
LDR, totalling $310 million. All these loans were aimed primarily at (i)
providing foreign currency resources mainly for the development of small and
medium sized industries and supporting Yugoslavia's industrial development;
(ii) supporting rapid development and employment creation in the LDR,
particularly by encouraging labor intensive projects; (iii) promoting greater
inter-regional cooperation and coordination through joint-ventures between
enterprises in the LDR and MDR; (iv) helping access to external commercial
sources of finance for Yugoslav enterprises by encouraging co-financing; and
(v) contributing to rational allocation of investment resources and
institution-building of participating banks in the industrial sector.
40.      Out of the past five loans, commitments and disbursements under the
first and second industrial credit lines (IC I and II), (Loans Nos. 1012 -
1013 and 1277 YU), totalling $100 million, have been completed and a
completion report on the first loan is under preparation. IC III and IV
(Loans 1611 - 1614 YU) of $40 million and $60 million respectively are also
fully committed and expected to be disbursed by their respective closing
dates. In line with their partial objective, the first four loans have
contributed to employment creation at a reasonable cost per job. Also, the
estimated financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate of return (ERR) of
the sub-projects financed was in most cases well above the agreed minimum of
11 percent. Finally, sub-projects have attracted substantial foreign
currency co-financing. Thus, in the case of the IC IV 27 Bank-financed



-15 -
sub-projects received foreign currency co-financing totalling $28 million.
IC V (Loans Nos. 1909 - 1912 YU) which became effective on August 17, 1981
allocated $30 million to PBS and $10 million to SBS. Funds are expected to
be fully committed by mid-1982, i.e. well ahead of the February 1984 target
date. To date, twelve Bank approved sub-projects have attracted co-financing
in the amount of $17.0 million.
41.      At the Bank's request, PBS and SBS have reviewed the status of all
previous Bank financed sub-projects. The results indicate that 50 out of 53
sub-projects covered by PBS's survey were operating satisfactorily at the
time of the review, while 3 faced problems requiring intensive supervision.
SBS's survey also shows that the status of the Bank assisted industrial
projects is generally good. In the two banks, problem projects are mostly
those facing difficulties in the import of raw materials due to foreign
exchange constraints. Efforts are being made by concerned enterprises to
obtain foreign exchange from other enterprises with a surplus of such funds.
42.      In addition to partly filling the foreign currency resource gap of
the recipient banks, the Bank's industrial credit projects have also been
instrumental in the institution-building of these banks. Under the previous
industrial credits, the banks have improved the quality of their sub-project
appraisal and initiated an annual portfolio analysis which is covered by
Social Accounting Service (SDK) in its audit reports. The proposed project
will emphasize further improvement in appraisal and an intensive supervision
of sub-projects (see paras. 46 and 67).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The proposed loans and project are summarized in the Loans and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in
the "Staff Appraisal Report on a Sixth Industrial Credit Project" No. 3780-YU
dated April 1, 1982. This report is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The project was appraised by a mission which visited
Yugoslavia in September/October 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 1-5, 1982. The Yugoslav Government delegation was led by Mr. A.
Slapernik, Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance; PBS was represented by Mr.
M. Husseinbegovic, Assistant Manager, and SBS by Mr. J. Milosevski, Executive
Vice President.
Objectives of the Proposed Loans
44.      While building on the objectives of the previous five industrial
credits, the proposed loans represent a new orientation to respond more
effectively to the different industrial conditions and prospects of the two
LDR, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Specifically, the proposed loans are
designed to (i) assist export-oriented industries through the provision of
foreign exchange and help PBS and SBS increase their role in the promotion of
export-oriented projects; (ii) support the Government program for energy
savings and increased use of domestic energy resources in industry; (iii)
further strengthen institutional aspects of PBS and SBS in particular with
respect to project evaluation and supervision; and (iv) encourage joint
ventures between different regions of Yugoslavia. The loans would also



- 16 -
encourage co-financing by attracting foreign investment in sub-projects
financed under them. The above objectives are in line with the Federal and
Regional Republican plans and the Bank's lending strategy vis-a-vis
Yugoslavia as elaborated in Part II above.
The Borrowing Banks
45.      The two borrowers, PBS and SBS, are associated banks (see para 36).
Each bank has its own self-management agreement and statutes; its operations
are regulated by the National Bank at the Federal level and various Federal
directives, and supervised by SDK. The assembly of a bank is its highest
governing body; in the case of an associated bank it is made up of delegates
elected by the members of the basic banks. Each assembly approves the Five
Year Plan, Annual Plan and Business Policy (including interest rates) of its
bank, and these plans are harmonized with the plans of the basic banks and
their members, as well as with the National and Regional Plans. The assembly
appoints, for a four-year term, each bank's President who is the chief
executive. Appointments are made on the basis of professional competence,
changes are infrequent and the quality of senior management is generally
good. At the end of 1980, the number of employees was 462 at PBS and 515 at
SBS. Both banks have similar organizations, divided into functional
departments.
Policies and Procedures
46.      PBS and SBS do not have formal financial policies per se concerning
their operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity ratio.
Nevertheless, they generally follow prudent practices (see para 49). Any
substantial allocation of funds to a particular project has to be in
accordance with the Regional Plan. The banks use similar procedures for
project appraisal. All projects are first examined and approved by member
basic banks, and projects which exceed their resources, and/or involve
Federal or Regional Funds, or foreign exchange, are forwarded to the
associated banks for further detailed appraisal and approval; these include
all Bank-financed sub-projects. Both banks have qualified project appraisal
and supervision staff. The quality of appraisal reports received from the
banks is generally acceptable and has shown a general overall improvement.
Further improvement is aimed at, particularly in economic and marketing
aspects. Supervision work is in general satisfactory, as are procurement and
disbursement procedures. However, in recognition of the need for a better
organized and more intensive project supervision system covering management,
technical, financial and marketing aspects, PBS decided to establish a new
division with 15 professional staff for supervision work; in the case of SBS,
the appraisal staff will also be responsible for project supervision and the
respective unit is being staffed with six additional professionals. The
employment of additional staff and the implementation of intensified
supervision system for all Bank-financed projects will be fully operational
within 1982. In addition, PBS and SBS will endeavor to apply a similar
supervision system for all other industrial projects financed by them.
Financial Position
47.      The banks plan their operations on a disbursement rather than a
commitment basis. As a result, each bank has substantial overcommitments



- 17 -
vis-a-vis available resources at any point in time which it expects to cover
by transfers from the Federal and Regional Funds for priority projects and
other sources. The banks maintain a tight liquidity position wbicb is
regulated by the National Bank of Yugoslavia together with regional National
banks and supervised by SDK. Debt/equity ratios, although seemingly high
reaching 15.5:1 in 1980 in the case of SBS and 14.1:1 in the case of PBS,
are not to be conventionally interpreted in the Yugoslav context. The
largest source of the banks' liabilities comes from Federal and Regional
Funds, which have the character of managed funds with banks acting
essentially as a conduit for disbursing them in accordance with the
provisions of regional plans and agreements. The solvency of Yugoslav banks
is a function of the solvency of their basic member banks and, in turn, their
founder members (each assuming unlimited liability for the bank's debts) and,
ultimately, the economy as a whole. The fact that the banks are not
profit-oriented is reflected in their income statements. The banks are
expected to earn an income wbicb is adequate to cover their expenses and to
make required allocations to various reserves. Against this background, the
net income of the two banks has been more than adequate. The overall loan
recovery position of the banks is considered satisfactory. None of the banks
bave experienced significant write-offs in the past and reschedulings bave
been few. However, during 1975 - 1980, PBS and SBS, like other commercial
banks in Yugoslavia, suffered foreign exchange losses on foreign currency
savings accounts due to currency fluctuations. While these losses are
manageable and will be amortized against future annual income, PBS and SBS
agreed to make appopriate arrangements to protect themselves in the future
against the foreign exchange risk in their lending and borrowing operations
(Loan Agreements, Section 4.05).
48.      Botb banks are audited by SDK following generally accepted
international accounting standards, to the extent consistent witb Yugoslav
law. Over the past several years, SDK has expanded the scope of its
international standard audits and, in 1979, as part of its annual audit, it
started a detailed portfolio analysis of all four banks having been
recipients of previous Bank lines of credit. This steady progress in
extending audits is one tangible result of a Bank supported training program
for SDK whicb began in 1974.
49.      Both banks are considered credit-worthy for Bank lending.  This
assessment is based on the fact that: (a) there have been no significant loan
losses in the past and the arrears situation is manageable 1/; (b) management
of resources and appraisal and supervision of projects are generally
1/  In the case of PBS arrears over three months reached 2.3% of the
long-term debt portfolio on December 31, 1980 (1.3% at the end of 1979);
SBS' arrears over the same period amounted to 4.3% (3.9% at the end of
1979). In the case of both banks, arrears were mostly for less than 12
months and were mainly the result of delays in construction faced by a
number of projects which are expected to commence loan repayments after
their completion. The arrears situation of PBS and SBS can therefore be
considered acceptable, but both banks need to pay more attention to
improving the quality of their portfolio and maintaining arrears within
reasonable levels (about 2% of outstanding long-term debt portfolio).
Adherence to the systematic supervision program agreed with the banks
(see para. 46) should help achieve this objective.



- 18 -
satisfactory; and (c) each bank is such an integral part of the economy as a
whole that failure is conceivable only with the concurrent failure of the
entire economic system.
operations
50.      The main areas of operation of the two banks are loans and
guarantees. Long-term loan commitments have increased over the past several
years, reflecting the increase in investment in the regions the banks serve.
In 1980, long-term loan commitments of PBS amounted to $634 million, with
manufacturing (primarily metallurgy, wood products and metal products)
accounting for the bulk (52 percent) and mining and energy (24 percent) and
agriculture and forestry (8 percent) being other important recipient
sectors.  SBS's long-term commitments amounted to $767 million; manufacturing
(primarily textiles, metal products, chemicals and food processing and
tobacco) also being the most important sector (50 percent), followed by
mining and energy (30 percent) and agriculture and forestry (7 percent).
Guarantees in favor of enterprises, primarily in the industrial sector, have
also shown an increasing trend, amounting to about $1.2 billion for PBS and
about $0.8 billion for SBS in 1980.
Forecast of Operations
51.      PBS and SBS have prepared their operational and financial
projections which are largely based on their medium-term plans for the
1981-85 period and linked to the regional plans for Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia. The banks' forecast of operations indicate that each expects
long-term loan commitments to continue to expand. Their long-term resource
mobilization plans appear reasonable, with Federal and Regional funds
allocations expected to be an important source. The proposed loans are
estimated to cover only 2.0 percent of PBS' and SBS' industrial lending
program for mid-1982 to end 1984 on a commitment basis. The loans would meet
about 10 percent of the banks' total foreign currency requirements for
industrial lending during that period. The final date of sub-project
submission under the loan would be December 31, 1984 and the Closing Date
December 31, 1987 (Loan Agreements, Sections 2.03 (c) and 2.04).
Features of the Proposed Loan
52.      Allocation: The loans will be allocated equally between PBS and SBS,
i.e. $33.0 million for each bank. Sub-loans can only be provided for
export-oriented or energy conservation/conversion sub-projects.
53.      Export-Oriented Industries: In line with the prime objective of the
project, export oriented industries in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia will
be the main beneficiaries of the project. In order to be eligible,
enterprises would have to submit sub-projects which Ci) will export directly
or indirectly at least 50 percent of production, if new, and at least 60
percent of incremental production if balancing, modernization, and/or
expansion of existing facilities (as an exception, above export targets will
be reduced to 40 percent and 50 percent respectively for sub-projects
manufacturing non-metallic mineral products and metal and mechanical industry
projects which generally have to face severe competition with producers from
developed and newly industrialized countries having a more sophisticated
international marketing network and a well developed internal institutional



- 19 -
infrastructure to support exports); and (ii) will meet a net foreign exchange
earning criterion whereby such sub-projects would recover their foreign
capital cost through their net foreign exchange earnings (export earnings
minus imported inputs and interest payments on foreign currency loans) within
a four year period, starting six months after completion of the project.
This period would be extended to five years in the case of sub-projects
falling under the exception mentioned in (i) above (Loan Agreements, Schedule
3, Section (A)(l)). In order to be considered eligible as an export oriented
project, all sub-loan applications will bave to provide sufficient
justification for the foreign exchange earning capability and export market
viability of the proposed sub-project in question. The borrowing banks will
closely supervise and review the export performance of sub-borrowers to
ensure compliance with export targets and periodically report their findings
to the Bank. In case sub-borrowers fail to comply with the export targets
and the banks should conclude that such failure is due to negligence or lack
of sufficient effort by the enterprises, the borrowing banks would take any
of the following measures against the enterprises: (i) a penalty interest of
up to 4 percent per annum; (ii) restrictions on future credits (both
long-term and short-term) to the enterprise; and/or (iii) call back of
sub-loan or shortening of sub-loan maturity (Loan Agreements, Section 3.02
(a)(vii)).
54.      The two banks have completed export studies, partly based on a
survey of export-oriented enterprises in their respective regions. The
studies have helped in the identification of a large number of projects--35
with total foreign currency requirements of about $80 million--which would be
eligible for financing under the proposed loans. During the project
preparatory work, the Bank staff visited some of the concerned enterprises
and found their management generally knowledgeable of foreign markets and
well aware of export prospects of their products. The enterprises had a
varied export experience both with respect to products and markets and had
established marketing channels abroad, including Western Europe, Northern
America, Asia and Africa. They had already initiated preparatory work on the
development of their proposed export-oriented projects and the preliminary
data indicate that, prima facie, these projects should be viable on the basis
of competitiveness of their products in international markets. Furthermore,
the requirement that enterprises export at least 50% of production (40% in
exceptional cases) would ensure that eligible projects are competitive and
viable in export markets on the basis of their comparative advantages, and
that their exports are not of a "spill over" nature.
55.      Energy Conservation/Conversion Sub-Projects and Related Technical
Assistance: Given the need to decrease Yugoslavia's dependence on oil imports
and thus to help ease its balance of payments position, energy conservation
/conversion sub-projects in industry would also be eligible for financing
under the proposed project. However, before such sub-projects can be
considered, PBS and SBS will launch a program of studies to identify and
develop energy conservation/conversion projects in industry. The foreign
cost of the program, estimated at $150,000 for each bank (based on a cost of
$11,000 per man/month), will be covered under the proposed loans, while the
banks would meet the local cost (estimated at $40,000 for each bank) from its
own resources. The program will consist of, first, a preliminary study by
local consultants to assess the potential for energy conservation/conversion
in the energy intensive industry sectors in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia



- 20 -
and to prepare an energy audit of a selected number of factories which are
large consumers of energy and seem to have significant potential for energy
savings. The terms of reference of the energy audit will be prepared and
agreed upon with the Bank following completion of the preliminary study. The
audit will be carried out by foreign consultants who will be appointed by the
banks following the Bank's guidelines on use of consultants. The second step
will be the energy audit of these factories wbich the banks agreed to
complete by June 30, 1983. The audit should result in the identification of
possible sub-projects for energy conservation/conversion and a preliminary
assessment of their viability. The banks agreed to furnish draft reports of
the preliminary study and energy audit to the Bank upon completion, and
finalize these reports and take subsequent actions, keeping in mind the
Bank's comments, if any. Finally, the banks will no later than July 1, 1983
initiate action, in consultation with concerned enterprises, for the
preparation of detailed feasibility studies and appraisal of the identified
sub-projects (Loan Agreements, Section 3.06).
56.      Sub-projects thus identified and prepared are likely to fall into
three main categories: (i) modification and retrofitting of boilers and other
primary energy producers to increase fuel efficiency and/or to switch to
domestically produced fuels other than oil (coal, lignite and gas) and
hydro-produced electricity; (ii) change in production process, either to
reduce energy consumption or both to reduce energy consumption and to
increase capacity; and (iii) production of equipment and devices for energy
conservation (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section A(2)). The criteria for
eligibility of energy sub-projects will be (i) for straight energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects, a maximum pay back period of 3.5 years
in the case of small sub-projects (below $300,000) and only a satisfactory
financial rate of return in the case of larger sub-projects; and (ii) for
sub-projects combining modernization and expansion and sub-projects for the
production of equipment for energy conservation, satisfactory economic and
financial rates of return as for regular industrial projects (Loan
Agreements, Schedule 3, Section A(3)).
Sub-Projects and Sub-Loan Size
57.      The maximum sub-loan amount to be financed by the Bank will be $5
million (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section B(1)); this compares with a
limit of $4 million under IC V and takes into account the expected increases
in equipment costs in dollar terms due to inflation. There will be no limit
on the maximum size of sub-projects because the proposed loan would largely
finance export-oriented sub-projects and in order to be competitive in the
international market, they should be sufficiently large to benefit from
economies of scale, if needed. However, a review of the banks' preliminary
pipeline of sub-projects indicates that almost all sub-projects would be
~within the maximum limit allowed under IC V 1/ and adjusted by the inflation
factor.
1/ IC V had a maximum cost limit of $15 million for regular sub-projects,
$20 million for joint ventures and no limit for labor intensive
sub-projects.



- 21 -
58.      Free Limit. The free limit for sub-loans under the proposed loan
will remain the same as under IC V, i.e. $2 million for a sub-loan and 60
percent of the loan amount for each bank as aggregate free limit. In
addition, the first five export-oriented sub-loans and the first three energy
saving sub-loans will be treated as above the free limit (Loan Agreements,
Section 2.02 (b)). As the sub-projects will be of a specialized nature, it
will give an opportunity to the Bank to make an in depth review of all
appraisal reports on the first few sub-projects prepared by the banks and to
provide them advice and guidance at an early stage, if necessary. It is
expected that the above arrangement would ensure the Bank's review of about
60 percent of the loan amount and about 40 percent of sub-projects.
Terms of Sub-Loans
59.      Sub-loans would be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years from
the date of signing of the proposed loans. Grace periods would normally be
up to three years. A longer grace period of up to five years would be
allowed for domestic joint venture projects or energy saving sub-projects
(Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section B (2) and (3)). The $300,000 technical
assistance component will be repayable by the banks over 15 years including
two years of grace.
Economic and Financial Evaluation
60.      As under previous industrial credits, the borrowing banks will
prepare a satisfactory economic and financial evaluation of all sub-projects,
including the economic rate of return (ERR) and financial rate of return
(FRR) calculations; these calculations will not be necessary for some of the
energy saving sub-projects as mentioned in para. 56 above. Sub-projects will
have to meet an ERR of at least 12 percent as agreed under IC V. However,
given higher interest rates (see below) and the need for encouraging
sub-projects which are financially viable even without subsidized interest
rates applicable to loans from specially earmarked funds, sub-projects will
have to have a minimum FRR of 15 percent in line with the banks' interest
rates for domestic resources (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section A (3)).
Interest Rates and On-lending Rates
61.      The interest rate structure in Yugoslavia is characterized by highly
differentiated interest rates among the Republics and Provinces, by purposes
and by sources of funds.  Interest rates are low compared to inflation rates,
but the gap between rates on intermediated funds and inflation rates is
expected to narrow as domestic inflation subsides and deposit rates are
increased. Until recently (see para. 64), medium and long-term loans made
from the banks' domestic sources carried interest rates ranging from 3
percent to 10 percent. The rates at the upper end of the range applied to
intermediated funds and were based on the banks' borrowing costs. The lower
rates applied to non-intermediated funds mobilized through the Federal and
regional Funds. Term enterprise deposits of up to two years earned between 6
and 7 percent, while there were no ceilings on term deposits above two
years. Saving sight deposits by households received 7.5 percent while time
deposits by households over two years as well as deposits in foreign exchange
from individuals abroad received 10 percent. Deposit rates are regulated by



- 22 -
the Yugoslav Banks Association. Lending rates are not regulated, except for
onlending of Federal and Regional Funds and for lending to priority sectors.
Each bank's lending rates are established by its founder-members on an annual
basis through self-management agreements. There is, however, de facto
coordination among banks within and across regions for establishing the
structure of lending rates.
62.      Annual rates of inflation (retail prices) bave varied considerably
over the last few years.  Between 1976 and 1979 the rate of inflation
averaged about 14 percent, prices increased sharply during 1980 (by 39
percent) and in the first half of 1981 (56 percent, on an annual basis).
Since then, due to Government anti-inflationary measures (see para. 12)
inflation has slowed to an annual rate of 25 percent during the last 6 months
of 1981. The Government expects inflation to drop to 15 percent in 1982. In
line with the Government's counter-inflationary objectives the rate of
inflation in Yugoslavia for the next three years is to be in the range 13-15
percent. If, as expected, domestic inflation remains at the level of 13
percent beyond 1985, the on-lending rates charged by the banks' on their own
resources (see para. 65(b)) will be marginally positive in real terms over
the life of the loan.
63.      Interest rates have been the subject of extensive discussions
between the Government and the Bank for the past few years. In the context
of the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. No. 1477) the National Bank
carried out a study of the role of interest rates in the Yugoslav economy.
The study, submitted to the Bank in early 1980, concluded that if interest
rates were to become a binding constraint on investment planning, this would
preempt the dominant role of social planning and group consensus in
determining investment allocation in the priority sectors. It finds that in
the Yugoslav context, interest rates could become a significant factor only
in resource allocation for non-priority investments where income maximization
as opposed to social objectives is the criterion. However, views that
interest rates could play an economic role, even in the system of social
planning, have recently begun to gain increasing acceptance in Yugoslavia.
The new Federal Social Plan and the resolutions of the National Assembly have
prescribed that interest rates should play a more important role in resource
mobilization and allocation.
64.      In February 1982, the Government and the Yugoslav Banks Association,
which had conducted a review of the interest rate structure, decided as
follows; deposit rates on sight and term deposits of households were
increased by 1 to 5 points above the present maxima while the general
rediscount rate of the National Banks was increased from 6 to 12 percent and
its rates on selective credits from 1-4 percent to 4-8 percent. It is
expected that commercial banks will raise their lending rates to reflect the
increased cost trends. The medium-term objective is to introduce over time a
structure of positive real interest rates by gradually adjusting interest
rates and, concurrently, reducing inflation. The priority sectors would
continue to benefit from more favorable, although probably somewhat
increased, rates.
65.      As regards interest rates applicable under Bank financed industrial
credit projects, understandings were reached in 1980 under IC V to increase



- 23 -
the lending rate to sub-projects on loans from the participating banks' own
local currency resources from a minimum of 7 percent to 10 percent in order
to gradually correct the fact that nominal interest rates have been negative
in real terms. A further increase in the lending rate is warranted given the
inflation forecast for the coming years as described in para. 62 above.
Interest and on-lending rates under the project would therefore be as
follows: (a) For Bank funds, the on-lending rate to be charged by the banks
would be 12.85 percent which would include a minimum spread of 1.25 percent
considered adequate to cover administrative expenses and other related
costs/provisions of the borrowing banks (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section
B (5)). As sub-borrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk on the
proposed loans, the real cost of the Bank's funds to sub-borrowers would be
competitive with international commercial sources taking into account the mix
of currencies in the currency pooling system and current international
lending rates. Also, the on-lending rate would be positive in real terms
taking into account the ultimate cost to the sub-borrowers wbich includes the
foreign excbange risk. (b) For the portion of domestic funds which are
provided from the banks' own resources (tbe mobilization and allocation of
which are interest elastic) floor rates would be increased to 15 percent
whicb would be 5 percentage points more than the current minimum level of 10
percent charged by the banks on their own resources (Loan Agreements, Section
3.05). (c) For the portion of domestic funds provided from specially
earmarked Federal and Regional Funds (the mobilization and allocation of
which are not interest elastic) no floor rates would apply and the rates
currently applicable to such funds would continue. Finally, efforts to
pursue an objective of increasing interest rates will continue through
project-related activities and the continuing dialogue through country
economic and sector work on this and related matters.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.      As agreed under the last three industrial credit projects,
international competitive bidding (ICB) would also apply for the proposed
sixth project. ICB procedures will normally be required for contracts
estimated to exceed $2 million equivalent. The Bank will undertake a full
review, prior to contract award, of all procurement documents and procedures
for contracts expected to cost $5 million equivalent, or more. For contracts
of $2 - $5 million equivalent responsibility for ICB will be delegated to PBS
and SBS; however, the Bank would review the bid evaluation report, award and
final contract prior to the first disbursement. Procurement for contracts
below $2 million will continue to be in accordance with appropriate
commercial practices (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Section C (2)).
Disbursements of funds by the Bank will be done against standard evidence of
expenditures with supporting documents.
Institution Building
67.      The proposed project will help to strengthen the fundamental role of
borrowing banks tbrougb the identification and development of export-oriented
and energy conservation/conversion projects. As regards the project
appraisal and supervision work, the borrowing banks bave made significant



- 24 -
progress but there is a need for further improvement, particularly in the
marketing and economic evaluation of sub-projects. Also, the sub-project
supervision work of the two banks needs to be more intensive and better
planned. The proposed project will assist the banks in this respect through
the review of and advice on the appraisal of individual sub-projects to be
financed under the Bank loan. The visit of the Bank's regular supervision
missions and monitoring on the performance of sub-projects would help to
strengthen the sub-project supervision work of the banks.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.      The main justification for the proposed loans is their emphasis on
supporting export-oriented projects thus helping the efficient implementation
of major Plan targets. Promotion of export-oriented industrial sub-projects
will result in improved use of domestic resources, including labor, better
utilization of existing capacities, productivity increases and creation of
economies of scale and, in turn, will contribute to improve the industrial
structure in the two regions concerned, and, in Yugoslavia as a whole, by
stimulating joint ventures.
69.      The project's tecbnical assistance component would belp in the
identification and development of energy conservation/conversion
sub-projects, some of which may be financed under the proposed loans.
Although the number of these sub-projects is expected to be initially small
and their impact limited, they would constitute a pilot project which may
lead to a more extensive program of energy saving in the industrial sector in
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia and other regions of Yugoslavia. This would
help to reduce oil imports which are causing a major constraint on the
balance of payments situation of Yugoslavia.
70.      The risks under the proposed project mainly relate to meeting the
export targets by beneficiary enterprises. The actual exports of
sub-projects may fall short of targets for two main reasons. First, the
conditions in export markets may change to the disadvantage of Yugoslav
producers due to development of more economical substitutes, enhanced
competition from other developing countries, or creation of production
capacity within the importing countries. Second, beneficiary enterprises may
shift to the domestic market, which has been generally more profitable due to
protection policies, and make only "spill-over" exports in line with their
past practice. Provisions have been made to minimize these risks through (i)
a careful and indepth evaluation of marketing viability and prospects of all
export-oriented sub-projects by the borrowing banks and their subsequent
review by the Bank staff before the sub-project approval even in free limit
cases; (ii) close supervision and monitoring of export performance of
assisted enterprises by borrowing banks and submission of periodical
information to the Bank in this regard; and (iii) levy of remedies on
beneficiary enterprises which fail to meet the export target due to
negligence or insufficient efforts (see para 53). It is expected that the
above arrangements, as well as the new policy framework to encourage exports,
would help to keep the risk within acceptable limits.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      Each of the draft Loan Agreements between the Bank on the one hand
and Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka and Stopanska Banka Zdruzena
Banka - Skopje respectively on the other hand, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the
reports of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.      Special conditions of the loans are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 2, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE JA                                               Page  1  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             255.8                                        MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      142.8                   1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
GSP PER CAPITA (US$)                        370.0        830.0    2430.0                    2609.1                      9444.0
USERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           875.1       1554.3    2440.3                     2368.4                     7896.6
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    18402.0         20371.0   22139.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9            34.8        41.5                     53.2                       76.4
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                         2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PEE SQ. KM.                             71.9          79.6       86.5                     80.6                      142.7
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          124.0         139.0      153.7                    133.9                      523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               30.5          27.4       24.8                     30.1                       22.8
15-b4 YitS.                              63.2         64.8       66.3                      61.5                       65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         6.3           7.8        8.8                      8.3                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     1.2          1.0        0.9                      1.5                        0.8
URBAN                                    3.6           3.2        2.9                      3.1                        1.3
CRIDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           23.2          18.8       17.5                     22.9                       14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            9.8           9.0        8.5                      9.1                        9. 5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     1.4          1.3        1.1                      1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         59.0
1O005 AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                85.0         93.0      117.0                     119.8                      112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RtEQUIREIENTS)                       125.0        130.0      136.0                    125.7                       131.4
PROTEINS (GRAUtS PEK DAY)               93.0          93.0     101.0                      92.5                       98.1
OF WHICH ANIMIAL AND PULSE            28.0         32.0       39.0                      39.7                       62.2
UBILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            5.0           2.6        1.5                      3.4                        0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          63.2         66.9        70.3                     68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY KATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 87.7          55.5       33.6                     25.2                       12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..         33.6
URBAN                                   42.4         62.0
RURAL                                     ..          12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBAN                                      ..          ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..
POPULA1ION PER PHYSICIAN                1616.0       1000.0       762.4                    973.3                      621.2
POPULATION PLR NURSING PERSON           1350.0/c      410.0      409.0                     896.6                      217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  200.0         179.0      166.0                    262.3                      119.4
URBAN                                      ..         70.0     101.6                     191.8                      120.9
RURAL                                      ..      1610.0    1836.9
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL AED                  . .        17.0       18.2                     18.2                       17.9
ItOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                                    4.0           3.8        3.8
URBAN                                    3.3          3.2         3.3
RURAL                                    4.4          4.3         4.1
AVEKAGE NUrlBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                                     1.6          1.4
URBAN                                    1.7           1.3
RURAL                                    1.5           1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    54.5         87.9
URLMBAN                                 92.7          98.4
RURAL                                   36.1          80.1



- 27 -
ANNEX I
TALE 3A                                    Page  2  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATES-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE            MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        106.0      99.0                    105.9                     99.6
MALE                 113.0       108.0      100.0                   109.6                    102.1
FEMALE               108.0       103.0       98.0                   102.2                    101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 58.0         69.0      82.0                     66.3                     89.3
MALE                  63.0        78.0       86.0                    73.2                     83.3
FEMALE                53.0        58.0       78.0                    59.5                     85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..          26.0       21.0                    28.4                     18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         27.0      25.0                     26.8                     21.2
SECONDARY                          13.0         22.0       19.0                    23.6                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0         83.5       85.0                    75.4                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         35.4      88.5                     83.9                    349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         84.9        165.5     209.1                    181.6                   1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         88.2     170.2                    131.1                    400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0         85.3       95.9                   123.8                    336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.0        3.4                     5.7                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8302.0       8837.6/d  9381.7/d
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.0         35.9      36.0                     32.9                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0         51.0      30.9                     34.0                      6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         23.0      32.9                     28.7                     37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.1         43.4       42.4                    42.3                     45.7
MALE                                  60.0        56.6       55.0                    56.5                     58.9
FEMALE                               30.9         30.6       30.1                    28.5                     33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.8        0.8                     0.9                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e        15.1/f    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.57         41.47?    38.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e         6.6/f      6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        18.4/f    18.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     430.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
May, 1981



-28 -
ANNEX I
rage 3i f 6
DLFISITIP5S IF SOCIAL JOliScArI,"
Thacafece..c...rc...cr. (lIhe           a       cr rofocs   Ibjecsoc                  I'd  12lIac....r.c  .rc.      rcsra .sbnaaegicracac--spe
LASt 005   tccoscsis.i                                                                                  c                        lrdr.c   ...hr             o.r.ri-fr.irurici
T- sli     cstsric-tec-prno.indcIs  rorar-so-                                                             uba9nroal ucdei:oL-rroc    rrrcdorf-fpcee-
SPfEblirpiT    (S                  - 5?  e  cpc   os1rhirre  us osrc   ace    rce,ci                   Is crro.rosd                        oa  hoapiras   coh ro-   . r-dd   helc
iNli. sri 19'S dec                                                                                      acs'a-sec             on    sOud, f             h, escIbob f fe   rr  h
iar   ch   or  rac      -loct     fosro  sad i-os   I,i  icr    Ftoocs
crcRCd CONSiltSTiOO  PEt CaPIIlA-cte   osopico   orrceera    ca                                            ,wcr-o    re   ocri PIcue"OnO                       "!" pI,geri oari
r,Idcipt orkigac   fcs   qosarprcpc; IN.  gIlr,  o                                 l_                  corssd    pI o---th ea  hoopIoco   or cr ie   r1   rdo    nst
deco..                                                                                              O . Pds96is9stnra 97  .   ...Ip cl red-h cal roIer I dI ae-I, -0- hcr- iebo
cchh-   -oL-dd  bytcrrs-icc  of beds
POP StATION MD1 atTI  STATS SlO
~pppPooceca~~sid.YoetrrotodeP      A.O of 3.100I 1960h. 1910. sod 1079                 0009
5;di9di,-sOIL,de-d 1979 doon--                                                                                                                          d o
Odesiarcoc Froiecrtors                                             Aons0~rruacsoud erreros ear roo            -    1,a -oh-  anId rerol - So-rg,  oe
Faaictacnesiii-or0                o    -ooslcrja-ricr... ...             ssio..td                    Scf rrosprroraiohr   crric                                  fdrcrcoa
srrel ppolscio hr ae sod er ecd  heir   rrslttcand dociticyrase -18                 doeliors  rerrociosr....iloI....usr                          illece .o.sr .c.oraeI
iog lcfr especracor er ric-h  coccoalogooc -ounoc-    ctccscllIoice                         -co poasrlcrsokrs.   idslos_    oc,ubn   r   oe
lool,rdfseoiirrortetrsebccrtca  7.5pess.Th  eas-Coracioehde..r.ocb                                                              I icricon iricig q...r-rrtaa
tech cooccoy Is t1,-  -ssg-rd or  of chess oill co-ho-nsi-cf aao1oilry                        tDUloTO
aridroiii0rr-da  do-  orIoctpross                                                               45scEcolroOr
assi cardocsehst   fsa                iod boorosr scc  o  rcpoclrscstresospopois are  .iror  or nOons the cr   c thso-ol  ge
sacs cs-a.                                                                                           adocsicr..       rao l,aatsII ..ofr psars Ifapp      poipersay snaro,illo
tsarare toer00000 tacocro s--orr  - The rear oh,c  ---iyeo   roue5o                             osoercs-.ott os, or   . sahar rricir jgosorcos bo   frpe
si-o  hoe bar-oecobad.                                                                               ....atlrrll 4ercsc;ocaaraccsrasagrIIcli
PdayrI....kn--rr-rPcoocro      Ioraqoar  icitoo- rltl0Shr-rr-csPr                            Vosio..eIIroceci cc f sactdarrl                        V:: --oetosI  .ra.iurot r
-ore  ara;190  1970 sod  -979 aeo.                                                                   hrotlda  reobhroet.1cocrilIto otbac progres  ahbt   rpa--  trepaci-
Psrs.to.actoluosd -  C--c.,c                      aebocaId fcgcicut-rcrdnltel   derr                              ..radeosoaa..srorfa-croicrytisftitsrbill
Illyc  1960  I90sd17    h5                                                                          trlathrrto-ora                     a   ssdac T-fors   stadarra  -oc11la  er
PrcatrAss  erraes rec-e ) - Cbildca-  p0-cc yaces, so-ks-a-sa  (d-                                 priearcysi  s odd          crt  d!innd  Srmb       sey    f rsatfahs c  r~ba
o    .raa. ) Ird reiradIt  hars sod orace    cecraa    f oid-yar                                       .... -   parerodiog lar1..
taccon; 196'0, 1970  . sd  119f  isdMts_rronesPera                                                                                      - ,itarra aI ateslaIbia to see  soI        cir.i
Porotarror Srorb acts Ipeeerr - roost      ...esI grooth cae  o  I f t-r1 asd-                lsprsog    f toss1 doir rpe -ica- ..rad 15 yas  ra soard
Pane pspoItai... for 1905-60, i9tO-70t..sd 1970i-9.
Ponstarso Oroab tressteoccori - orbo-Arrac   arosereras of -obsr papo-             COflSUirPTIONdf
lescoos forcoso-o   190-70   ..ri tOII-79   pbi-oea  Cas par  bosaot dootaridt-yrss.ssc   arscomet I Ood
Ppnpolac-; i9ch, 19071..ad 1979 dare                                                                  rircar..y  datth as:.h
loa-ds DeathOas osthdart     Orot              hasS  Par shonseos of  _c-as                           edoRcareste  ibo--sd  opsiscrr  - Oil e,ppa. fccaoc   a re to"
rorelcacor; 1960. tif970         dr,   do ..d17    ..                                                                                                             II.tsssssrtpbr  prhoso   o   ooa s  sottdssst
rttirp rats  u.u. ity piir-pecc  a-e-g-sedirg  it 1960, 1970, sri tO71.                              sas  not     ee    bhrtishd 1itoacsis.l
soso   ofcild-baseSog9tre  100-ct yasc.. Ib  oss -   biect-coorcol deoresc                     tsserrCcatstoLhroactrrirOo                                 cbsesP,she  -o-cgs ott
sit sorsodotoocir sas eg  gru-                                                                -utrtrr of 'daily gse   Illrro...oaaps...              def ted   Iape  ldioc.
pobli-arco   deo-ra   pr-riIy so r_crtilog  gooses  dana.  t" Osroada
POOD  NDg  NUtTRITION                                                                                     so i   'dattly" if it appea.rs at issa IdnfriosesaIae..k.
Ienoend Prod-orcr c     Capita  1tt70il  -Ides of  -a  cc pJir  aron1                          Ioss kos t -tos o  oar Cort.irs              Y-   peefeo-lss     00 rbro-beer
ordoto    fal   od  -ds Iistta    Prodooriteo  to dss seed sci fIed sri                    stokers sari id.io   the Ysso. i-otodtcrsdsfser..rsrde is-cr crosses
is orcaeIced  peer basis.  lorendirie  000.  pr isop  gods.           s.. .. g. .....cr0 soienta.
- -y:era esoldei.  Agesss  pOdoSorf  ah oru..rtr  is basad or                                   LASORFOR5CE
esrioraseoga p-odo-- price  -eigh-s  lb-6t, 1970, sod 1979 dars.                                   TsEtLassPooit-1esry                        - S rotapeci-e  p5 t00    rsoIllr
Ilelg  sqtroIare  of ca  food au     -lo ieottbte  Is oor ..pl Pee ospiro                         oor llr pocsc   of a1 ages.   Oetcttoaf                  oro       onrte   c
par tap   c-ocleIa  -cpptio-  cosprise doosacic   . prodocio. ispo-r  tee                          ens lonPareble; itO   1970 sod 1979 dess.
sapre    r0hboe   osok    fa   op  n   a lode o.ce1 fad, seeds,                            PatFtsosrI - Peste  lbs srsa   rosrg    fttl   labre focro1.
qa Itotesss  io food prcsieg   sod loas  tod  cro o R. Oqoire-                                Alri-uhtora      -`rc Lot  -fbocfseIcfrcafo rp bucgan
asoas  iara ass tastedby      ... b Isedo  obyctotogicet oasis tar r...a  sort. -               fiahtcg as pree-osge of totac  Iabar foros; itO,t970 sod 1,979 tars.
oity asd freetbhcoiderirgsoir- stsarasers- re   SId  -eights, Iaeioueo   roo     Labor fo--  ic nlitiog. orcoso.ssfecrortig
dosbi   oa;iNtl-ti, 1970. co1977 dsre.                                                        I97O std 19719 dacs.
Per car its a  solo of Ororto tgosss Se  tadt - Prooso concoct ofpesospisa    Pseco Oscroco Sra (paroes.--totat, sets,soddfsaele-P1sicspstrss I
...a .      offodpe..p             tatopt   f fond ia desired as cbr.I   fe cracssaanprda    c                                                  cs        mod .oast  febo   oees
qsososforfsit courorcs asoaS dasba           US DI5 prortisd  aId  tat.pa.r.t.ga  of  .oral, sale ard feam   prisio    f sit... .ga .r...clsiy.1y
slionasts of .. grass oftice  p..r... Per.dc  sod  it genes of sIse  so1   d                       1960. 1970, ned t5tN  dare     h. Obs  se  Sa...d or 11,0.0sper  sa            ca
pelsa   roerof sihio  ii gesas shautId _a s                P_ Iroste   fhesasnd-es .e.t..raas  .rusr f the pooose,ad toeg oti,asad.
aofsat pruesce a  cc sneosge foe  beooold, proposd bp rat cc rhe Third, .. f              idof Se-sder,co    Ii Rato-Piio or popolsacoonote   17 sed f5 sod roa
Wci  Poot..  Scroe; 1961-6i, 1970 crd 1977 dsc.to  the rose1 lboc tao.
PortscIaeosesuprtn     -ois1 sod p,Isa  - Procon   .,PpIy o  food do-
ori"d Pros corset  art polses to gras  par tsp; i96P5-t9, 1970 cci idfl data,                 INCOMEfDS licm Tutio
1thild     sititorbioat  tear t.....sdl - A-oc1 destho Per thonead is                                 COEtd.   etnofos   Ss t   ehsdSrP-rtca    ytba
sties dared isesnd fros  ifit  caStes; 1960. 1970 sri 1979 tars,                                     ofPbseaIldP
OESTSi                                                                                               P0055  TAORG"  GOUOPS
Lifa Esprocancret Brtch toarp     -rsgI ensha  at sears of Side  -ocltg                               heftiog   -strrsc0Oorspoiaasosrao   ost  Ieosts
atSrih; 1960, t9TS sod 1919 dccc.                                                                  cod shooi dbe~ ioserpeee          hiSoIItebe   aete
IrfeorSorsahac iis tee  fbooaodt      ...oel deahs of trf ....es odar one yf..            Esrinred Astr   osi  co    ae  (16$ prc et-rbesastrccsl1
Sac  f pepletantt,   bso  sod rosit  irt  reasho--      tbl rcesscssais                        rtoriorblpdqrt   disp                 easee   o-food reqaicasasr  is sot
safr suppyip (tdnlutrserdarst  s_te-  or sotseted bar uEsNatttd                                     tsioard Ro1tei-a Poreo-        cos  Loe-Stprrna                      -saa  so.eesd
Ssf sgoirbsoco_sooebteacIss   of abgs Snse    Ro-etrs                                  la _ascr  aifoetoar fr  bighor cost of ti'Ehrie  is nbs  aras
cosaidessi                                                                           isriocrad Poroisecor fatno Absotare Porart . booms Lanaib tIrHiderosost - afbse
cesaosbfeocssaootdsetcrarrt   b00555f5055a5050555b055b0t                            aodrrsl-PocoscoPpPII              ero       1-1hs isssdeitsdnasneIoic1
doso   -o  tc sped I disp---ort...t  oar ol   f the d.y Is fsc-hitg ebe..l"
o.d     f rbhiraseoroepools Ios.    crac  disposalaspinoIrI
th  stols  a  dispsal,als  or slab                  ..... s rser. of -So IscasEor..s btoic cet Srira1 Dar t                                                                 orto
a     :,.eeaar.bsy erbo yeafress or the ass of Pit peciss. aod slbtooc aZieeed   ricie   iarrao
Pooslttossao  brairc   P P.p.isrior daridet by osobse of psacticiog physi-                                                                             M,
class q-stifiet fteosImetita1 sobo t as c            ..srietscIt.
Poposrir er Naate Pesor    Pootaios dinidad Op  -ubar of peaceloig
Nasedfs tsgadi    soosalessrP ..e..                      essaeoest



-29 -
ANNEX I
Population:  22.3 million (mid-1980)                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,620 (1980)
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates (7)
(million US5 at                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                                     Actual                                      c/           Projected
1980 c/          1975        1976       1977       1978       1979       1980        1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/          69,232               0.9        5.2        8.4        8.5        4.2        2.2         2.2        2.5        3.6       3.6       3.6
Agriculture                      86516              -2.6        6.4         5.7       -5.4        5.4        0.0         1.0        3.2        3.2       3.2       3.1
Industry                         28,801              7.4        4.1        9.5         9.3        8.5        3.6        1.4        2.3        4.0       4.2        4.2
Services                         24,993              1.4        5.3         7.1       13.1       -2.0       -2.2        3.4         2.5        3.3       3.1       3.1
. Consumption                        48,760             -3.3         0.0        9.8       13.0        3.8        0.6        -1.1        2.8        3.5       2.7       2.8
Gross investment                   23,218             10.1         3.6       17.4       -3.2       12.0       -3.2       -1.2        -2.5        1.3       4.2       4.6
Exports of GNFS                     14,053              1.1       10.4       -2.0        4.8        2.6       12.6         9.3        7.0        6.6       6.6       6.6
Imports of GNFS                    16,799             -1.3       -8.6        16.1        2.5       12.0       -9.7       -2.6         2.6        4.3       5.2       5.7
Gross national savings              19,619             14.7       20.6        5.6       -3.1        3.4          5.8        -          -          -         -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 -100)               411           170         204        232        260        313        411            -
Exchange rate                           24.9          17.4        18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0       24.9          -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)                                        Average AnnuaL Increase (7)
(at current prices) b/                                               (at constant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1975      1980       1985                           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
Gross Domestic Product a/        100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0        100.0                              5.9         6.5        5.7        3.1
Agriculture                     22.5      16.1       13.8      12.3        12.1                              3.3        2.9         2.4        2.7
Industry                        42.2      37.4       44.3      41.6       41.8                               6.3        8.3         7.0      -3.2
Services                        29.0      38.1       33.1      36.1       36.1                               6.9        4.7        4.3         3.1
Consumption                       67.2      72.8        74.3      70.4       69.8                              6.5         6.9        5.4        2.1
Gross investment                  36.5      32.3        33.5      30.5       27.8                              4.7         5.5        5.3        1.3
Exports GNFS                      13.9      16.5       20.2       27.7       33.7                             10.2         6.7        5.7        7.2
Imports GNFS                      17.5      23.5       28.0       31.4       31.3                              9.8        6.7         2.5        3.1
Gross national savings               32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3       28.4                               5.3        6.2        6.5         -
As % of GDP
1960      1970       1975      1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
'ot-l revenues                    27.9      33.1        36.8      37.6
Total expenditures                24.1      33.2        37.2      38.2
Surplus (5) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1       -0.4        0.6
Foreign financing                  0.0       0.0       -0.4        0.0
1960-70  1970-75      1975-80  1980-85
OT'HER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                6.1       6.7.        5.7       2.8
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6         4.7       1.9
ICOR                               5.4       4.6         5.8       9.1
Import elasticity                  1.6       1.0         0.5       1.0
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/  Estimate.
EMENA IC
March 19, 1982



- 30 -
ANN5EX I
Population:  22.3 million (1980)                                                                                                                    6ANE   o
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,620 (1980)
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (X)
(million US$ at                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                    Actual                                  e/              Projected
(1980)            1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                8,978              0.0       14.5       -5.3        1.0       4.4       11.2    10.6       7.0    6.4      6.4      6.4
Primary a/                       1,940             -3.1       16.6        3.9        1.5       5.6        2.5   -10.7       5.0    5.0      5.0     5.0
Manufacture. b/                  7,038              0.4       13.9      -8.8        0.8        4.0       14.1    16.4       7.4    6.7      6.7     6.7
Merchandise Imports               15,065             -2.8       -6.5       18.5        3.8      18.8      -13.9    -4.9       2.5    4.3      5.4      6.0
Food                             1,087           -40.9       45.8         4.3     -24.2       51.9       -3.1    -5.5       1.0    1.0      3.5     4.0
Petroleum c/                     3,549             -5.0       10.1      12.0       11.6       10.6       -8.2      0.0     3.0    5.0       5.0     5.0
Machinery and equipment          4,216             22.3      -8.8       17.8         7.1      22.4      -23.1   -19.8    -5.0    3.0        3.0     5.0
Others                           6,213           -11.9      -12.7       22.1        4.4       12.8       -9.3      4.3     6.5    5.4       6.9     6.9
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Export price index                                  172        180       202        220        253        301      331      364    393      423     453
Import price index                                  184        189       216        226        269        319      351     385    419      452      486
Terms of trade index                                 93.5       95.2      93.5        97.3      94.0       94.4    94.4    94.7   94.0    93.5    93.1
Composition of Merchandise  rrade (Z)                                     Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices) d/_____                                          (at constant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1975       1980       1985                            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
Exports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                             8.1        5.7        5.1       7.4
Primary a/                                49.6       29.4       19.5      22.0       16.0                               -        -1.3        6.0       1.9
Manufactures b/                           50.4       70.6       80.5       78.0      84.0                               -         8.1        4.7      8.8
Imports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0                              9.0        7.4        4.1      2.7
Food                                       9.1        7.2        5.5        7.2       8.6                               -         5.0       14.9      0.8
Petroleum c/                               5.4        4.8       12.3      23.6         7.9                              -         8.2        7.2       3.6
Machinery and equipment                   36.8       33.2       33.9       28.0       24.6                              -         9.4        3.1     -2.8
Others                                    48.7       54.8       48.3      41.2        58.8                              -         6.0        3.5       6.0
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with Capital            Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)            Developing Countries (X)          Surplus Oil Exporters (X)        Centrally Planned Economies (Z)
1965    1970      1975      1979     1965    1970    1975    1979   1965    1970    1975    1979           1965    1970    1975    1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                40.1    53.3       34.0      40.5      17.4    13.6    16.8    19.3    0.4        0.7      2.1    11.5      42.1    32.4    47.1    40.3
Primary              61.0    70.2       54.0     55.0       9.1      8.2      8.9    14.2    0.2       0.2     1.9      5.8      29.7    21.4    35.2    30.7
Manufactures         24.0    41.9       26.0      33.5     23.8    17.2    20.0    21.6    0.6         1.0      2.1    14.2      51.6    39.9    51.9    44.9
Imports                55.3    66.1       59.1      60.8     16.0    12.7    15.7       n.a.   0.1       0.1     0.6      ..a.    28.6    21.1    24.6    25.3
a/ SITC 0-4
b/ SITC 5-8
C/  SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
e/  Estimates.  Owing to changes in the valuation of trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth
between 1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
EMENA IC
March 19, 1982



-31. -
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                   EX I
(UsS millions)                                                   PAE6f 6
Population: 22.3 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,620 (19f0)
Indicator                                                                      Actual                                                                        Projected
1970        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979       1980      1981 a/      1982        1983        1994    1985
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Exporta of goods and services                    3,037       8,012       9,142      10,586      12,069      14,276      18,300   22,207    25,325         28,492    32,023   35,921
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  1,679      4,073       4,893        5,191       5,809       6,794       8,978   10,939    12,860         14,779    16,905   19,248
Importo of goods and services                    3,385       9,013       8,977      11,932      13,352      17,937      20,592   22,957    25,862         28,828    32,221   35,972
of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                 2,874        7,697       7,367       9,789      10,439      14,019      15,065   15,758      17,709       20,114    22,915   26,122
Net trasofern                                        -           -           -           -           -           -            -        -          -            -          -         -
Current account balance                            -348      -1,001         165      -1,346      -1,283      -3,661      -2,292      -750       -537         -346       -198       -51
Private direct inveotment                            -           -           -           -           -                       -         -          -            -          -         -
MLT loana (net)                                    196         951       1,094       1,432       1,394       1,009       2,410       762        662          241        865    1,010
Official                                          18         246         213          61         128         131          59    1,097       1,280          451        654       642
Private                                          178         705         881       1,371       1,266         878       2,351      -335       -618         -210        211       368
Other capital b/                                    38         135         119          45         541       1,487         657       143        360          600       -100      -333
Chang.em  reserven                                 114          85      -1,378        -131        -652       1,165        -775      -155       -485         1495       -567      -626
International reserves ci                          276       1,502       2,880       3,011       3,663       2,498       3,273    3,428       3,913        4,408      4,975    5,601
Of which:  Cold (official valnation)              51          62          62          64          69          73          78        78         78           78         78        78
Reserven as months imports                           1.0         2.0         3.8         3.0         3.3         1.7          1.9       1.8        1.8         1.8         1.9      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Grasn dinburnements                                611       1,647       2,096       2,665       2,800       2,438       4,156    3,223       3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Official grants                                    -           -           -           -           -           -           -         -          -            -          -         -
Concen.i.nal loamo                                67         134         134         159          29          13          20        12          -
DAC                                              0          71          62          66          11          11          15         8          -            -          -         -
OPEC                                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -         -          -
IDA                                              -           -           -           -           -           -           -         -          -            -          -         -
Other                                          675          b3          72          93          18           2           5         4          -
Non-co.cen.ional loans                           573       2,037       1,962       2,506       2,671       2,425       4,136    3,211       3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Official nxpart credita d/                      39         203         283          75          74          60          85    1,375       1,534          723        931    1,145
IBRD                                           37          154         119         133         180         294         258       240        285          341        330      337
Other multilateral                               -           -           -           -           a          24          36        18          -            -          -         -
Private                                       497        1,680       1,560       2,298       2,409       2,047       3,757    1,578       1,463        1,623      2,381  - 2,941
Yugonlav export credit (net)                      (-37)       (-82)      (-100)      (-183)      (-106)      (-125)      (-300)   (-250)    (-230)         (-220)    (-240)   (-156)
E.ternal debt
Debt octstanding and
disbursed e/                                2,053       5,820        7,172      8,956       11,117      13,608      15,446   16,458    17,350         17,811    18,916   20,081
Official                                       854      2,327        2,792       3,085       3,410       3,662       4,552    4,982      6,492         7,163      8,057    8,855
Private                                      1,199       3,493      4,380        5,871       7,707       9,946      10,894   11,476    10,858         10,648    10,859   11,226
Undinbhrned debt                                 948       2,971       2,525       4,438       3,713       3,817       2,542    3,666       4,705        5,627      6,247    6,747
Debt aervice fl
Total service paymento                           503       1,441       1,440       1,595       1,886       2,125       2,441    3,961       4,456        4,320      4,720    5,483
Interest A/                                   128         289          302         367         578         821         995    1,750      2,066        2,121      2,183    2,225
Payments as X exports                             16.6        18.0        15.8        15.6        14.9        14.9        13.3      17.8       17.6         15.2       14.7      15.3
Average inctrest rate on new Io.n  (X)               7.1         8.1          7.1         7.4         7.7         8.0         8.4       9.2       9.1          8.2         8.5      8.6
Official                                           7.0         8.3         7.0         7.3         7.7         -           -         -          -            -          -         -
Private                                            7.5         7.5         8.6         9.3         8.7         9.5         -         -          -            -          -         -
Average maturity of new loans (years)               16.5         15.2        18.3        15.4        15.1        10.8        10.1      10.2       10.3         10.7       10.5     10.3
official                                          18.5        16.5        10.0        15.9        15.1         -           -
Private                                           10.9        10.9         5.7         7.5         -
a/ Eutimates.
hI includes net one Of IMF credit (drawings le.. rep-rthases), met use of ahort-term credit and changes in bilateral
balances .
c/  IScluding gross foreign annats of conmercial banks.
d/  After 1980, includea borrowings guaranteed by National Bank of Yugoslavia.                                                                                     EMENA IC
e/  Eaternal borrowing reported in the historical balance of payments is not consistent with external debt dtat.                                                   March 19, 1982
f/  Debt service excludes amortization and interest on export credit extended by Yugoslavia.
After 1981, includes internat payments on use of IMF resources.



32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-nine Loans fully disbursed                                 830.3
777    1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water   45.0       1.3
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje         Agricultural
Industries           31.0     0.1
916    1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline          59.4    19.3
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              93.0      0.3
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion      44.0      3.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0      1.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0     3.9
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0    10.6
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0      6.8
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0      3.0
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                54.0    42.4
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries           26.0      7.2
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.0    13.2
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                      Roads                  56.0     0.1



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission          80.0       27.8
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0       49.0
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              100.0       11.6
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                  80.0       11.8
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power            73.0      33.8
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       11.3
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        4.1
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       10.4
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit                20.0        2.4
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       46.8
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       49.4
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                 148.0       67.5
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       50.1
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       12.9
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       47.7
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       11.6



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka              Third Agricultural
Credit                86.0       83.7
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina        Roads                  125.0      125.0
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina         Fifth Industrial
Credit               50.0       50.0
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit               30.0       30.0
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka              Fifth Industrial
Titograd                       Credit               20.0       20.0
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka                 Fifth Industrial
Skopje                         Credit               10.0       10.0
1951    1980   Investbanka                     Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0         87.0
1977a/  1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                  34.0       34.0
1993b/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina         Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0         90.0
2039c/  1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje          Agriculture            80.0        80.0
d/
Total (less cancellation)                                 3,012.7       967.25
of which has been repaid                                    397.4
Total now outstanding                                     2,615.5
Amount sold                               9.2
of which: Amount repaid                  9.0                  0.2
Total now held by Bank                                    2,615.1
Total undisbursed                                                       967.25
a/  Declared effective on November 16, 1981
b/  Declared effective on December 23, 1981.
c/ Declared effective on January 6, 1982.
d/ The Kosovo Water Supply Project (Loan amount $41 million) was approved on
November 10, 1981, and signed on December 14, 1981.



-35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                          Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                       Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation        -       2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                          Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry             9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                             Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires              12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   70.9        -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0        -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant       10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel              50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing        4.0      2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                      Tourism           21.0      -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery          18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                                Enterprises      30.4      -       30.4
Total Gross Commitments                                288.0    11.8   299.8
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             154.3      5.2   159.5
Total commitments held by IFC                          133.7      6.6   140.3
Total Undisbursed                                       81.9      0.8    82.7



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1982. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been very slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon to expedite utilization of water by industry and agriculture.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles, poor
management, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and the Bank
eventually agreed to entrust implementation of the pipeline in Serbia to a
different borrower. The loan was divided into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Serbia
are now under construction. Practically all the bid evaluation reports for
Butangas have been approved by the Bank and contracts have been awarded.
The main component of the project left to be implemented by NGU is telemetry
and control equipment for both loans 916-YU and 1264-YU.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. However, project now
progressing satisfactorily. All funds are expected to be committed by
closing date.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project
provided the basis for the preparation of the Second Morava Regional
Development Project (Loan No. 1951-YU). The flood control and water quality
studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by mid
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by early 1982.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned.  Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily. Naftagas still has to conclude contract for telemetry and
control equipment.
Loan 1277  Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 millioni Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successful.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery has been
completed and the cold store equipment has been procured but construction of
civil works is slightly behind schedule. Plantations of vineyards and
orchards are on schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed. The loan
is about 95% committed and about 70% disbursed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10,-1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution, while slower than expected at appraisal, is underway on
the most critical sub-stations and lines. The tariff study and most of the
least cost development study have been submitted to the Bank. Delays
continue to be experienced regarding management studies, revised
interrepublc agreement on joint operations, remaining portion of least cost
development study and securing of foreign financing for balance of items to
be imported.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. The
loan is fully committed. All agroindustry investments are in the
procurement or implementation phase. The project is about one and a half
years behind appraisal estimates. Closing date has been postponed to
December 1982. Measures to speed-up disbursements and overall project
implementation are being discussed with the participating banks. The
project monitoring and evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule.  Slovenia and
Serbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80% of the loan amount
have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively problem
free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is not
Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies needed
concerning site geology and additional time needed to complete financing.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are slightly
behind appraisal estimates mainly because of the delay in the approval of a
special project (lead smelter).
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit; $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans are almost fully committed. Disbursements for Loans
1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal,
while Loan 1613 is behind appraisal estimate. However, disbursements for
Loan 1613 is expected to accelerate as a result of recent changes in the
Borrower's procedures.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date; February 14, 1979; Closing Date;
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed. The project is proceeding
almost on schedule with completion of the dam scheduled for December 1981,
and that of the net work by June 1982.



_ 41 _
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date;  June 30, 1983.
Sub-project approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal.  About 80% of loan has
been committed but disbursements are behind schedule. Cost overruns may
necessitate a reduction in scope of the project which is under construction.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway; US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule, except that for the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Action for award of contracts for equipment and construction of
civil works is in an advanced stage. Studies on subsurface drainage in
experimental plots are in progress. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Disbursements are were behind
appraisal estimates but are expected to improve when supply of equipment and
goods can begin against the constracts awarded.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project close to schedule, emergency works completed and
contracting for restoration works completed with some works in progress.
-J
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $2.3 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as result of complicated engineering design for
repairs to badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 50% of the loan has been committed. Several agroindustries
sub-projects have been identified in various republics. Some agroindustries
in Serbia and Kosovo are being implemented. The agroindustries study is in
progress.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Serbia is ready to
award contracts, Croatia and Vojvodina contracts have been approved by
Bank. Consultant for toll study has been selected. CRO and ITE
co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia October, 1981.
Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in October, 1980.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Sub-project identification and preparation is at an advanced stage
and a number of sub-loans have already been approved.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 million loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date:  August 28, 1981;  Closing Date: December
31,_1986
Out of 12 agroindustry sub-projects for which bids were invited,
bids have been opened for 11, and award of contract made for 6.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan became effective on November 16, 1981.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development; $90 million loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date;  December 31, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30,
1987
The loan became effective December 31, 1981.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development; $80 million of July 23,
1981; Effective Date. January 6, 1982; Closing Date; June 30, 1987
The loan became effective January 6, 1982.
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: $41 million of December 14, 1982; Effective
Date; not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The terminal date for declaring the loan effective is May 17, 1982.
J



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to
prepare the project:                October 1980 - September 1981.
(b)  Project Preparation agencies:    Privredna Banka Sarajevo
Stopanska Banka Skopje
(c) First Bank mission to
consider Project:                   April 1981
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:        September 21, 1981
(e)  Negotations Completed:              March 5, 1982
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:         September, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Effectiveness
None.
B.   Otber
(a) Protection against foreign excbange risk on the banks' savings
accounts (para. 47);
(b) Eligibility criteria for export oriented (para. 53) and energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects (para. 55);
(c) Remedies for non-compliance with export orientation targets
para. 53);



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  Maximum sub-loan size will be $5 million (para. 57) and free limit
$2 million for individual sub-loans and 60 percent of aggregate
loan amount for each bank; first five sub-loans for export-oriented
and first three energy saving sub-projects will be treated as above
the free limit (para. 58);
(e)  Bank funds lent to sub-borrowers will bear interest of at least
12.85 percent; domestic funds lent to sub-borrowers from the banks'
own resources will carry an interest rate of at least 15 percent
(para 65);



