Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3 7 80-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON A
SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
April 1, 1982
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
Calendar Year 1980       December 31, 1981
US$1.00 2/         =  Din 24.91                 Din 41.82
Din 1.00           =  US$0.041                  US$0.024
Din 1,000          =  US$40.144                 US$23.912
Din 1,000,000      =  US$40,144.52              US$23,912.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL - Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CIFER - Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations
CPE   - Centrally Planned Economies
DC    - Developed Market Economies
EEC   - European Economic Community
ERR   - Economic Rate of Return
FRR   - Financial Rate of Return
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
GMP   - Gross Material Product
IC    - Industrial Credit
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
LDR   - Less Developed Regions
MDR   - More Developed Regions
NIC   - Newly Industrialized Countries
PBS   - Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS   - Stopanska Banka Skopje
SDK   - Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service
YBIEC - Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
2/ Throughout this report $ refers to US$.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
A SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION .........................................               1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND REGIONAL FRAMEWORK .........               4
A.  Industry, Structure, Past Policies and Performance              4
B.  Industrial Development Issues and Objectives .....              6
C. Industrial Export Performance, Objectives
and Policies ...................................             8
D.  Energy Policies and Issues .......................             12
E. Regional Development and Industry in Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Macedonia ......................            13
III.  THE FINANCIAL SETTING ................................              16
A.  The Financial Sector .............................             16
B.  Export Credit ...................................              18
C.  Resource Mobilization and Allocation ..............            19
D.  Interest Rates ...................................             20
IV.  THE BORROWING BANKS ..................................             23
A.  Structure ........................................             23
B.  Management, Staff, Organization and Procedures...              24
C.  Operations .......................................             26
D.  The Banks' Financial Situation ...................             27
E. Performance under the Previous Industrial
Credit Projects ...................                         32
F.  Forecast of the Banks' Operations and
Financial Performance ..........................            34
V.  THE PROJECT ..........................................             37
A.  Objectives .......................................             37
B.  Use of Loan Proceeds .............................             41
C.  Main Features of the Loan ........................             41
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                  .        .           46
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Zafar Shah Khan, Frangois Laporte and Emmanuel Forestier which visited
Yugoslavia in September/October 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Industrial Export Performance and Potential
Annex 2    Export Incentive System
Annex 3    Growth in Industrial Production, 1952-80
Annex 4    Structure and Growth of Industrial Production, 1952-80
Annex 5    Aggregate Market and Commodity Distribution of Exports,
197 0-197 5-197 9
Annex 6    Structure of Industrial Exports, 1975-80
Annex 7    Structure and Growth of Gross Material Product and Industry in
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia, 1970-80
Annex 8    Commodity Distribution of Exports in Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia, 1977-80
Annex 9    Statement3 of Income and Expenses:  1978-1980
Annex 10   Balance Sheets as of Years ended 1978-1980
Annex 11   Projected Income Statements:  1981-1984
Annex 12   Statement of Projected Sources and Applications of Funds: 1981-1984
Annex 13   Projected Balance Sheets as of Years Ending 1981-1984
Annex 14   Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 15   Energy Conservation/Conversion Component:  Sub-project
Identification - Terms of Reference of Preliminary Study
Annex 16   Projected Disbursement Schedule
Annex 17   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Yugoslavia is a federation of six republics and two autonomous pro-
vinces presenting wide disparities in levels of economic and social develop-
ment. Bank lending, and particularly lending for industrial development, has
been increasingly focussed on the less developed regions (LDR), which include
the republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro and the Autono-
mous Province of Kosovo. Among the LDR, development differences are also
large, with Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia having more advanced manufac-
turing sectors. The social sector, comprising the Federal and regional
governments, organizations of associated labor (enterprises), public insti-
tutions and self-managed organizations, has had a predominant role in Yugos-
lavia's rapid development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over
sixty percent of the labor force.
1.02     Over the past three decades, Yugoslavia has developed a unique
system for economic and political decision-making based on workers' self-
management 1/. Decision-making has become increasingly decentralized to the
communes, enterprises and self-managed organizations with a concurrent reduc-
tion of the role of central planning and control and power of the Federal and
regional governments. After the initial moves for workers' participation in
management in 1950, and towards economic decentralization in 1953, two impor-
tant phases marked Yugoslavia's economic and social evolution. The first
phase culminated with the new constitution of 1963 and the "economic reforms"
of 1965, which aimed at reducing central control, strengthening the role of
the market, liberalizing foreign trade, and considerably increasing the enter-
prises' autonomy. This involved, among other measures, abandoning the central
allocation of investment funds in favor of a self-managed banking sector and
reducing planning to a largely indicative rather than binding mechanism. In
the following period, a conflict developed between the drive towards the self-
management of enterprises and the need to achieve economic coordination at the
macro-economic level, and the Yugoslav institutional and regional framework
generated serious distortions which hampered the effective operation of the
market. This led to the new constitution of 1974 which responded to the need
to improve macro-economic coordination by extending workers' self-management
to the formulation of national economic policy, including planning. All
aspects of economic policy, including prices, income, employment, interest
rates, external payments, are now regulated by social compacts and self-
management agreements, which once signed by the various interested groups have
the force of law. A further reform in 1978 reorganized the banking sector and
placed the banks under the control and management of the enterprises.
1.03     Yugoslavia's economic performance under the last Social Plan (1976-80)
was satisfactory with respect to GDP growth (5.4 percent per year) and social
sector employment (4 percent per year). Although the redistribution of
investment resources to the designated priority sectors was not achieved to
the extent planned, fixed capital formation grew by 7 percent, compared with a
target of 8 percent. The Plan was less successful, however, in its priority
1/ See Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the Challenges of Develop-
ment, IBRD, Report No. 1615a-YU, 1978 and Yugoslavia: The Economic Deve-
lopment of Yugoslavia, IBRD, Report No. 194a-YU, 1973.



- 2 -
goal to alleviate the balance of payments constraints through import-
substitution and export expansion. The current account deficit widened to
$3.7 billion in 1979 (5.3 percent of GDP) and foreign indebtedness rose almost
three-fold during the Plan period. During the last year of the Plan, Yugos-
lavia introduced a stabilization program which included a 30 percent devalua-
tion of the dinar, reduced growth of money supply, restraints on real wage
increases and a tightening of import controls. Consequently, the current
account deficit was reduced to $2.3 billion in 1980 and economic growth slowed
down 1/.
1.04      These developments indicate the capacity of the system for short-term
macroeconomic management and a determination to achieve external adjustment.
However, beyond economic measures of a short-term nature, important and
durable changes are needed in the country's productive structure, particularly
in industry, and in a number of policy areas. The main objective of the new
Federal Social Plan for 1981-85 is adjustment of the economy and restructuring
of the balance of payments to a configuration compatible with rapid growth in
the long run. This is to be achieved by rapid export growth, continuing
import-substitution and considerable deceleration in the growth of fixed
capital formation, and its redistribution in favor of productive sectors.. As
in the past, the Plan stresses faster economic growth and reduction of
uneliploynment in the LDR and provides for increased and, new forms of transfer
of financial resources from the more developed regions (MDR) to the LDR.
While the Federal Plan presents development objectives and strategies and
macroeconomic targets in very general terms, it is supplemented by regional
plans which have more concrete operational content for investment allocation.
It is now recognized in Yugoslavia that export performance is the key to a
successful and durable adjustment.
1.05      In the last decade, the Bank lent more than $2 billion to Yugoslavia
of which, since 1973, five industrial credits accounted for 15 percent. Since
1970, direct project loans in industry (excluding agro-industries) accounted
for $67 million with 4 projects and IFC has been engaged in 19 projects for a
total IFC's gross investment of $317 million. The Bank Group's activities in
the industrial sector have been aimed primarily at i) providing foreign
currency resources mainly for the development of small and medium scale indus-
tries and supporting Yugoslavia's industrial development; ii) supporting rapid
development and employment creation in the LDR, particularly by encouraging
labor intensive projects; iii) promoting greater inter-regional cooperation
and coordination through joint-ventures between enterprises in the LDR and the
MDR; iv) helping access to external commercial sources of finance for Yugoslav
enterprises by encouraging co-financing; and v) contributing to rational allo-
cation of investment resources and institution-building of participating banks
in the industrial sector.
1.06      The Bank's earlier five industrial credits (IC) to Yugoslavia were
channeled simultaneously through individual banks in each of the four LDR and
were very similar in concept. The proposed project builds upon these
1/ Recent economic developments and subsequent policy measures are reviewed
in the President's Report No. 3188-YU.



- 3 -
industrial credits but represents a new orientation to respond more
effectively to the different industrial conditions and prospects of the LDR
and to address more specifically the priorities of industrial development for
the country and each of the LDR, taking into account the specific needs and
characteristics of individual banks.
1.07     In view of the high priority of export promotion in Yugoslavia and
considering the relatively more advanced stage of industrial development and
reasonable export performance and potential of Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia, the proposed project will aim to assist largely export oriented
industries in the two regions. Energy conservation/conversion sub-projects in
industry will also be eligible for financing under the proposed project. This
would, however, be preceeded by a program of studies to identify and develop
viable sub-projects. The loans will be channeled through the two borrowing
banks, viz Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Stopanska
Banka Skopje (SBS) in Macedonia, which have developed a close relationship
with the Bank, being a recipient of the Bank's earlier industrial and
agricultural credits.



-4-
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND REGIONAL FRAMEWORK
A. Industry, Structure, Past Policies and Performance 1/
2.01     Structure.  The industrial sector of Yugoslavia has been the leading
sector of the country's economic growth and plays a central role in its
foreign trade. In 1980, industry 2/ accounted for 36 percent of Yugoslavia's
GMP 3/ (27 percent in 1960), employed one fifth of total labor force (13 per-
cent in 1960) and accounted for 95 percent of merchandise exports (75 percent
in 1960). Yugoslavia possesses sizeable energy and mineral resources and has
established a number of basic processing and extractive industries such as
coal, iron and steel, non-ferrous metals, non-metallic minerals, and chemicals.
In addition, the country has developed a diversified manufacturing industry
which produces a wide range of capital, intermediate and consumer goods.
Industry has absorbed a substantial proportion of the country's investment,
rising from 28 percent of gross fixed capital formation in 1960 to 34 percent
in 1979 (or 8 percent and 9 percent of GMP, respectively).  The industrial
structure of the LDR is more heavily weighted towards capital intensive,
resource based industries than that of the more developed regions (MDR) (para
2.25). The bulk of industrial exports is generated by the MDR, although
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia are making significant contributions.
2.02     Past Policies and Performance.  The centrally planned industriali-
zation was initially geared to the creation of capital goods and basic indus-
tries and the bulk of the country's resources for investment was channeled
through the Federal budget. This explains the traditional predominance of
large, and generally capital intensive enterprises in Yugoslavia (enterprises
with more than 1,000 workers account for over 60 percent of industrial value
added). Gradually, along with management decentralization and greater role
given to market forces, industrial strategy included the development of dis-
persed light industries. Although industrial output and export growth through
1965 was particularly rapid at above 10 percent a year, the mix of central
planning and controls and market forces led to inefficient and underutilized
industrial capacities and uncoordinated industrial development among regions.
The reforms of 1965 (para 1.02) included unifying the exchange rate, abolish-
ing export incentives, lowering substantially import protection and reducing
price distortions. Most enterprises successfully adjusted to the new condi-
tions in the domestic market. However, growth of the industrial sector slowed
down (5.4 percent during 1966-70) and with the decentralization of resource
allocation enterprises undertook excessive investments. The growth of indus-
trial exports also diminished in this period and industrial growth became
increasingly tied to the import of raw materials, intermediate products and
capital goods. Import growth during 1966-70 outpaced growth of industrial
I/  Recent Bank reports on Yugoslavia's industrial sector include special
studies on Export Performances and Policies (No. 2972-YU), on Productivity
in Yugoslav Industry (No. 3383a-YU) and on Small Scale Industry and
Industrial Policy (No. 3452-YU).
2/  Including manufacturing and mining, and excluding electrical power gene-
ration and construction.
3/  Gross Material Product



-5-
production by a factor of almost 2.5 compared to less than 1 during the pre-
ceding ten-year period. The recurring balance of payments difficulties were
exacerbated by the oil crisis of 1973.
2.03     Both the 1971-75 and the 1976-80 five-year plans called for struc
tural changes in industrial production, with a policy of simultaneous import-
substitution and export promotion. Certain sectors like energy, raw mate-
rials, intermediate products and capital goods were designated as priority
sectors with the aim of reducing technical and technological dependence on
foreign countries. Various policy measures were introduced to revive indus-
trial export growth, although primary emphasis was put on import substitution
with the notion that it was a more certain way to achieve external balance and
to make the economy less vulnerable to external conditions. Although the
policy of moderate import protection was maintained, such protection inten-
sified in response to balance-of-payments difficulties, particularly during
the second half of the 1970s. Despite large annual variations in growth,
especially during the last Plan, industrial output increased by an average 7.4
percent in real tenns from 1971 to 1980, which was one point higher than the
average growth of the whole economy for the same period. The capital goods
sector had the fastest growth with its share in industrial output rising to 28
percent in 1980, and the share of consumer goods remaining steady at 24 per-
cent of the total. This was at the expense of the energy and basic and inter-
mediate products sectors, whose share in output declined in the 1970s. The
real growth of industrial imports, which account for over 90 percent of total
merchandise imports, was reduced to 2 percent per year during the last Plan
and their elasticity to industrial production decreased from 1.4 in the
sixties to 0.9 in 1971-75 and 0.3 in 1976-80. Total industrial exports,
however, grew more slowly over the 1970s (5 percent a year) than in the 1960s
(8.5 percent a year).
2.04     Although investment in industry decelerated markedly in 1979 and
1980, it increased by an average of nearly 7 percent a year from 1971 to
1980. However, the share of priority sectors in industrial investment rose
from 46 percent of the total in 1971-75 to 49 percent in 1976-80, compared
with a target of 63 percent, while the share of the non priority sectors
remained higher than planned, indicating shortcomings in the system of project
planning and resource allocation and delays in project implementation in cer-
tain priority sectors. The incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) in indus-
try rose from 3.6 during 1971-75 to 4.6 in 1976-80 pointing to an increased
capital intensity of industrial investment and some decline in efficiency.
Between 1971 and 1980, industrial employment increased from 1.4 million to 2.2
million workers. The elasticity of employment creation to industrial output,
however, declined from 0.61 during 1971-75 to 0.51 during 1976-80 with the
continued emphasis on developing capital intensive basic industries and
because of increased capital intensity of investment in processing indus-
tries. Industrial growth was slightly faster in the LDR than in the MDR in
the 1970s.  However, both capital investment and employment growth were also
higher in the LDR, to degrees which imply that productivity of capital and
labor and the overall efficiency of industry in these regions has been con-
siderably lower than in the MDR.



- 6 -
B. Industrial Development Issues and Objectives
2.05      Issues.  After three decades of rapid development Yugoslav industry
is facing a number of problems. The first issue is the need for external
adjustment. With the stress placed on import-substitution, Yugoslavia has
been successful in curbing the rate of growth of its industrial imports during
the 1970s. However, the reduction in import growth was partly achieved
through direct import restrictions and tariff protection, which combined with
other factors, resulted in a bias against exports and distortions in the
industrial structure. As a result of the slugglish growth of industrial
exports, rapidly rising costs of imported energy and deteriorating terms of
trade during the same period, the trade deficit has substantially widened. In
view of the constrained foreign exchange position and adverse situation for
Yugoslav workers in Western European labor markets, it is becoming vital for
Yugoslavia to give its industry a strong drive toward export for the long
term, to optimize the processing of its natural resources and to specialize in
areas where it presents comparative advantages (see Section C, paras 2.12 to
2.21 below). It is also essential for Yugoslavia to reduce, or at least limit
the growth of its oil imports in the long run. In addition to developing the
country's own energy resources, this can be achieved by conserving energy in
industry, which is the largest consumer, and by converting industries to
domestically produced fuels (see Section D, paras 2.22 to 2.24 below).
2.06      The progress toward reduction of inter-regional disparities of income
in Yugoslavia has remained below expectations. The relative per capita income
position of the LDR has not improved during the last Plan 1/, despite substan-
tial flows of resources from the MDR through the Federal budget and the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of LDR and higher industrial
growth in the LDR than the national average, with the exception of Kosovo (see
Section E, paras 2.25 to 2.28 below).   Because of rapid population growth,
limited inter-regional labor mobility, a net return of migrant workers from
abroad in recent years and the capital intensity of past investments in indus-
try, structural unemployment has remained high in the LDR, particularly in
Kosovo and Montenegro. The trade balance of the LDR is much less favorable
than that of the MDR because of limited exports and relatively larger import
requirements, particularly for investment. This situation, combined with
probably more limited funds for investment in the coming years than in the
1960s and the 1970s, points to the need to emphasize export and employment
creation, particularly in the LDR.
2.07      A key issue is the need to raise capital and labor productivity in
the LDR. Joint ventures between LDR and MDR enterprises, which have been seen
as a major mechanism for raising LDR productivity and adjust their productive
structure, have been slow to get off the ground (para 2.26). An issue related
to that of productivity is the capital intensity of Yugoslav industry, even in
sectors which are traditionally labor intensive. The preferred technology is
1/ While Yugoslavia GMP per capita increased by an annual average of 4.9
percent during 1976-80, it is estimated to have grown at 5.3 percent in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, 5.0 percent in Macedonia and Montenegro and 1.8
percent only in Kosovo.



7-
often the latest available on the market, with little attention to the
Yugoslav situation of lower labor costs, scarcity of foreign exchange, high
levels of unemployment, limited know-how and fragmented markets. The reasons
for this pronounced bias towards capital intensive investment in processing
industries, include mainly the subsidized interest rates 1/, and the self
interest of workers and managers in raising their incomes through increased
capital productivity 2/.
2.08      Enterprises within an industry have tended to be centered in a parti-
cular republic or province, with marginal orientation to export, and indus-
trial coordination between regions being limited. Through the system of self
management agreements, enterprises have been able to build markets concen-
trating on their region, with limited effective competition. This has
resulted in a somewhat fragmented industrial sector, duplication of facilities
and excess capacity in certain branches, and foregone economies of scale.
2.09      Planning Objectives.  The industrial sector will play a central role
in the process of external adjustment called for in the new Federal Social
Plan for 1981-85. It is targeted to grow at 5 percent per year compared with
8 percent in the last plan and 6.9 percent average growth achieved during
1976-80. There is no significant departure from the strategy of import sub-
stitution of the last plan, although more stress is placed on import-
substitution in capital goods, in order to build up on acquired technology and
to reduce capital goods imports. The new Plan, however, puts a much stronger
stress on export-orientation, including specialization in export (paras
2.14-2.15). There is also to be a stress on rationalization and greater
efficiency of investment planning, implementation and use, and completion of
ongoing projects. Emphasis is placed on modernization of existing industries,
backward and forward linkages among industries and removal of bottlenecks, and
productivity increases to save on the use of scarce investment resources.
Industrial investment is planned to grow at a pace substantially lower than
output with a target of 2.3 percent yearly in real terms (compared with 1.5
percent average growth for the country's total fixed capital formation), and
substantially increased allocations for the designated priority activities
(energy, basic metals, minerals and basic chemicals, capital goods and
export). Forty three percent of planned investments in priority activities is
for the completion of ongoing projects. Employment creation is to be sought
through the development of labor intensive small and medium scale industries,
especially in the LDR. Development of electricity and coal production is
among the priorities, and the Plan introduces a new policy for energy conser-
vation and fuel substitution in industry. Investment allocations for specific
branches of industry are generally in line with existing capacities and pro-
duction targets. The choice of the priority sectors is economically sound.
However, in the sector of capital goods there would be a need to seek special-
ization in specific areas where Yugoslavia has experience and comparative
advantages rather than emphasizing import substitution across a wide range of
products.
1/ The bulk of investment financing has been coming from borrowed funds. The
share of enterprise self financing in industrial investment in 1978
averaged 36 percent.
2/ In 1978, average worker income in Yugoslavia was highest in the most capi-
tal intensive industries and lowest in the most labor intensive activities.



-8-
2.10      The Federal Plan identifies well the various causes for the country's
disappointing industrial export performance in the 1970s and addresses a
number of policy issues to achieve adjustment of the industrial structure and
sustained export growth. The Plan calls for changes in the system of foreign
exchange allocation, the exchange rate policy, the pricing of capital, export
incentives and promotion and export credit (paras 2.17 to 2.21 and 3.08).  To
remove the bias against export, import protection is to be reduced although
temporary measures aiming at limiting import growth have to be maintained
under the current program of stabilization. In the planning process, attempts
have been made to improve inter-regional industrial coordination through the
conclusion of social compacts among regions on the development of industrial
capacities, particularly in basic industries. It is also expected that pro-
gress in this area will result from the "pooling" of resources among enter-
prises and joint ventures, which are stimulated by greater incentives and more
active measures (para 2.26).
2.11      The export drive of Yugoslav industry should result in many benefits
for the industrial sector as a whole. Exports of manufactures provide advan-
tages over import substitution by stimulating resource allocation according to
comparative advantages, increased capacity utilization, the exploitation of
economies of scale, and improvements in technology and productivity stimulated
by competition in foreign markets. Export orientation can also contribute to
save capital by fostering labor intensive industries since an important com-
parative advantage of Yugoslavia lies in its lower labor cost, and because
exploiting economies of scale reduces capital cost per unit of output.
Employment growth may be adversely affected to the extent that export orien-
tation leads to more rapid increases in productivity than an inward orien-
tation. However, employment would, in turn, benefit from the likely relative
labor-intensity of exports and their indirect effects on growth of industry,
as well as, in the long run, from the use of the capital saved. Experience of
the newly-industrialized countries in the 1970s indicates that, due to both
increased demand and input-output relationships, countries applying an
outward-oriented strategy experienced faster manufacturing and overall growth
than those maintaining an inward orientation. A sustained export orientation
would necessitate equalizing export incentives among industrial branches and
reducing import protection (paras 2.19-2.20); this, in turn, would induce
industries serving the domestic market to develop according to comparative
advantages and to increase their productivity. Finally, enterprises among
regions would have to coordinate and associate themselves through domestic
joint ventures to achieve economies of scale and specialization and penetrate
foreign markets. For these reasons the proposed project will focus on exports
and offer incentives for domestic joint ventures arrangements.
C. Industrial Export Performance, Objectives and Policies
2.12      Export Performance.  Yugoslavia's total commodity exports amounted to
$9 billion in 1980, representing 10 percent of GDP and covering 59.6 percent
of commodity imports. Industrial products accounted for $8.5 billion or 94.5
percent of total commodity exports in 1980, the balance being made up of agri-
culture and forestry products. In the period 1953-65, Yugoslavia's total com-
modity exports increased by 11.4 percent yearly in real terms. By contrast,
the growth of Yugoslav exports slackened to 6.4 percent during 1965-72 and 3.8
percent during 1973-80. The slowdown in Yugoslav export growth followed the



economic reform of 1965 (para 2.02) which reduced the strong export bias and
was partly intended to increase the levels of domestic consumption. Since
then, Yugoslav exports have been highly cyclical in relation to conditions on
the domestic market, where the demand has remained strong through the 1970s.
The share of industrial exports in industrial output declined to 9 percent by
1979 from more than 11 percent in 1971. Other constraints on export perfor-
mance have included deteriorating price competitiveness due to domestic infla-
tion and over-valued exchange rate, slow growth of productivity, difficulties
in supply of raw materials and imported inputs, and, to a lesser extent, trade
barriers in the EEC and contractual limitations on exports based on imported
technology. In the past two decades, there has been, however, a sustained
change in the composition of Yugoslavia's total commodity exports from primary
commodities to manufactures (nearly 70 percent of total in 1980 compared with
43 percent in 1963), in line with the country's industrialization, and indi-
cating the emergence of Yugoslavia's comparative advantages and competitive-
ness in a variety of processed manufactures, including capital goods. At the
same time, except for a limited number of commodities where Yugoslavia has
achieved some degree of specialization for export compared with other coun-
tries, the structure of Yugoslav industrial exports has become highly diver-
sified and, in general, there was no attempt at specialization at the level of
enterprises and subsectors. No single industrial sub-sector contributes more
than 9 percent in total commodity exports.
2.13     The slowdown in Yugoslavia's export growth in the 1970s has been
accompanied by a shift in the direction of its trade. Yugoslavia is trading
with more than 100 countries. The share of industrial exports to the deve-
loped market economies (DC), which supply the bulk of Yugoslavia's equipment
and other imports, diminished from 47 percent of the total in 1970 to 37
percent in 1980. This was mainly due to the decline in export of primary
products, while Yugoslavia continued to demonstrate strength through the 1970s
in a variety of manufactures in the DCs' markets, particularly in the EEC.
The Centrally Planned Economies (CPE) have become the main market for Yugoslav
industrial exports, for both primary products and manufactures, their share
increasing to 45 percent in 1980 from 37 percent in 1970. There has been a
diversification of market among developing countries, particularly oil expor-
ting countries, for export of manufactures, engineering, turn key industrial
projects, construction and public works.  The aggregate share of developing
country markets increased from 16 percent of total exports in 1970 to 18
percent in 1980.
2.14     Planning Objectives.  The growth target for industrial exports (8
percent annually) in the new Federal Plan is the same as in the 1976-80 Plan.
However, the priority assigned to exports is reflected in the projected elas-
ticity of exports to industrial output growth, 1.6 compared with 1 in the last
Plan. The leading sectors for exports are expected to be machinery and metal
processing industries, nonferrous metals, textiles and clothing and agro-
industries with a projected growth of 9-10 percent per year. Within the sec-
tor of machinery and metal processing, exports of capital goods, including, in
particular, industrial machinery and turn key projects, agricultural equip-
ment, electrical machines and transport equipment, are projected to grow at 9
percent per year. A relatively rapid growth is also planned for exports of
non-metallic minerals and products and basic and processed chemicals. On the



- 10 -
other hand, the growth of exports of the wood and wood product sector is pro-
jected to slow down. The Federal Plan, and more specifically the regional
plans, emphasize modernization of existing facilities for technological im-
provements and productivity and quality increases. They stress specialization
for export at the level of subsectors and enterprises, as well as the develop-
ment of exports based on the processing of domestic raw materials and domestic
resources. The supply of raw materials and inputs for export-oriented manu-
facturing industries is expected to be eased with the start up of projects
undertaken under the last Plan in basic industries and the priorities given to
exporting enterprises for intermediary imports.
2.15      With respect to outlets for Yugoslav industrial exports, it is anti-
cipated in the Plan that the developing countries, particularly the oil expor-
ting countries, will become the most dynamic markets, and the policy framework
will be designed to encourage this. Exports to this group are projected to
grow at 17 percent annually in real terms, with their share in total Yugoslav
exports increasing to 26 percent in 1985 from 18 percent in 1980. On the
other hand, exports to developed market economies would grow at 5.5 percent
yearly only - their share decreasing to 33 percent of total exports in 1985
from 37 percent in 1980. Broader trade restrictions in developed countries
are foreseen, especially in Western Europe, as well as the adverse effect on
Yugoslavia of the expansion of EEC to Greece, and in the future Spain and
Portugal. Exports to CPEs are projected to grow at a conservative 5.5 percent
per year also - their share diminishing from 45 percent to 41 percent of total
exports during the Plan period. In the CPEs, the objective is to reduce the
trade deficit which developed in recent years (up to $800 million in 1980) and
that Yugoslavia has to settle in convertible currencies.
2.16      Considering long-term trends in Yugoslavia's industrial exports, its
comparative advantages and markets, the targets of the Plan for industrial
exports can be achieved. Despite its relatively modest export performance in
the past decade, Yugoslavia enjoys particular strength as an exporter of a
wide range of heavy and light manufactures and is showing increasing expertise
for export of technology and obtaining contracts for construction and public
works. Its experience of operating in four disparate sets of markets is an
asset for future market penetration, particularly in the developing and oil
exporting countries, where its prospects for expanding industrial exports are
favorable (see a more detailed analysis of Yugoslavia's export performance and
potential in Annex 1). The success should be more a matter of policies than
physical capacities.
2.17      Export Promotion Policies.  Yugoslavia's export incentive system (see
Annex 2) has evolved since 1952 and is quite comprehensive. The current sys-
tem is articulated in three basic laws passed in 1977 and reflects the general
principles of self management. The system includes rights of exporting enter-
prises to foreign exchange receipts, duty drawbacks, fiscal incentives, selec-
tive bonuses on exports (cash payments), and bilateral trading agreements. In
addition, exporters have access to credit at subsidized terms (para 3.08).
The administration of the export incentive system and foreign exchange is
divided among several institutions, including the National Bank, the Federal
Secretariats for Finance and Foreign Trade and the Federal and regional Commu-
nities of Interests for Foreign Economic Relations (CIFER). On the import
side, in addition to tariffs, quantitative restrictions have continued to form



- 11 -
a part of the Yugoslav import regime, although they were considerably reduced
in the early 1970s. CIFER approvals are needed for imports of machinery and
equipment, to ascertain that the equipment cannot be supplied by Yugoslav
manufactures, as well as for committing foreign loans.
2.18     Bank analysis 1/ has concluded that it was likely that tariff and
quota protection slightly exceeded incentives provided to exporters, creating
a slight bias towards the domestic market, but that the main source of bias
stemmed from the operation of the payments system and the implicit premium on
foreign exchange, which contributed to create a booming domestic market for
import substitutes. There is evidence from enterprise interviews conducted
during the preparation of the proposed project and other Bank missions that
the profitability of sale on the domestic market has been substantially
greater than that for export in most cases. At the same time the most effec-
tive incentive to export has been the system of rights to foreign exchange.
However, this payments system has led most Yugoslav enterprises to engage in
exporting, often just to cover their import needs. This has resulted in a
lack of specialization which has its costs in terms of marketing, insufficient
economies of scale in production, misallocation of domestic resources and sen-
sitivity of exports to domestic market conditions. Other export incentives
also need to be streamlined.
2.19     In line with the provisions of the new Federal Plan, which stresses
the need to establish and maintain a realistic exchange rate, and in close
consultation with the IMF, in the context of an SDR 1.7 billion standby
arrangement, Yugoslavia has taken an important step with a devaluation of the
dinar in mid-1981 and the introduction of a more active exchange rate policy.
In addition, it is proposed to reintroduce a semi-centralized foreign exchange
market managed by the National Banks and commercial banks.  If foreign
exchange is priced at levels which permit liberalized allocation, this would
give potential exporters easier access to foreign exchange to upgrade and
modernize their equipment, while enterprises which should not be exporting
would be relieved of the necessity. Finally, the policies of the Federal Plan
for demand management, which aim at restraining the growth of domestic demand
through credit restrictions, limitation on wage growth and fiscal provisions,
as well as the provisions of the regional plans for more selective allocation
of investment resources and the priority they give to export projects should
be more conducive to export orientation than in the 1970s.
2.20     Proposals to improve and increase export incentives (Annex 2, para 7)
are being reviewed by the various institutions concerned, with a view in par-
ticular to encourage export specialization and the processing of domestic raw
materials and foster exports to developing countries. They should be approved
by the Federal Assembly and made effective by mid-1982. On the whole, these
proposals are in the right direction. However, the system of selective
bonuses on exports should be reconsidered. Its administration is complex and
bonuses may constitute a disincentive to productivity increases and may encou-
rage the expansion of inefficient export activities in terms of domestic
resources. Maintenance of a realistic exchange rate should be by itself a
sufficient incentive to efficient exports and eliminate the need for direct
1/ See Yugoslavia - Export Performance and Policies, IBRD, Report No. 2972-YU.



- 12 -
export subsidies in most cases. It would also induce the certainty, equality
and stability in incentives which are essential to exporters. Concerning
other incentives, while exports with a low import content should be encou-
raged, provision should also be made for easy, duty free access to imported
inputs for exports wherever it is justified. In the context of economic work,
particularly at the occasions of discussions of the special studies on Export
Performances and Policies and Productivity in Industry (page 4, note 1) and
during the recent Plan Review mission, as well as during preparation of this
project, the Bank has initiated a dialogue with the Yugoslav authorities on
these issues.
2.21      The infrastructure supporting exports consists of the Federal and
regional chambers of economy, the commercial networks of the larger industrial
Kombinats and a number of trading organizations. The new export credit bank
(YBIEC) is also to play a role in export promotion (para 3.08). The Federal
Chamber of Economy has a network of about sixty offices abroad. These offices
monitor international trade, explore markets and undertake market analysis,
and help establish trade relation between Yugoslav and foreign enterprises.
Many industrial Kombinats have commercial offices abroad and a central trade
organization which handles-export transactions of their member enterprises and
performs market surveys and analysis. In addition, several Kombinats have
established affiliates in foreign countries, often in joint ventures with
foreign partners. _The independent trading organizations are usually special-
ized on a sectoral basis and handle trade operations, import and export, of
the smaller enterprises. Yugoslav exporters are generally satisfied with this
supporting infrastructure and with the export promotion and intelligence role
of the Chamber of Economy.
D. Energy Policies and Issues
2.22      In 1980, Yugoslavia depended on oil for about 40 percent of its total
energy requirements whereas only one quarter of oil consumption is produced
domestically. Since the mid 1970s, the Government has introduced measures to
increase the domestic supply of fuels and to reduce consumption of energy.
Increased coal production is being obtained from new mines, the reopening of
closed mines and the modernization of existing ones. Gas from coal and
natural production, hydro-electricity and geothermal sources are being deve-
loped further. Domestic prices of oil have been adjusted in line with import
prices and gasoline consumption and fuel oil utilization have declined in res-
ponse to higher prices and administrative measures. Net imports of crude oil
and refined products decreased from 12.5 million tons in 1979 to an estimated
11.6 million tons in 1980. However, the energy intensity of industry has
increased over the 1970s. The share of the industrial sector in energy con-
sumption was estimated at 25 percent of the total in 1980, and its share in
total oil consumption at 23 percent. The other sectors which are large
consumers of fuels are power generation (34 percent of the total in 1980) and
transport (14 percent).
2.23      Yugoslavia's Planning Institute anticipates that, by 1985, the share
of oil as a source of total energy will be reduced further from 40 percent in
1980 to about 35 percent while that of coal and coke would increase from 35
percent to 41 percent and that of natural gas from 8 percent to 11 percent.
While overall energy consumption is to increase at an annual average rate of 8
percent (compared with an annual rate of 15 percent in 1975-80), energy based



- 13 -
on coal would increase at an annual average of 20 percent in 1981-85. The
energy strategy of the new Federal Plan is articulated along four lines:  i)
to increase the use of domestically produced fuels, particularly in industry
and transport, and to speed up research for new reserves of coal, gas and oil,
shale and renewable sources of energy such as solar, wind, geothermal, and
biomass energy; ii) to increase production of coal (up to 82 million tons by
1985 from 50 million tons in 1980), hydro and thermal electricity from domes-
tic fuels, natural gas (up to 5 billion m3 from 1.8 billion m3 in 1980),
to undertake production of nuclear raw materials and to develop technology in
the area of nuclear energy; iii) to complete the distribution network foL
electricity and gas; and iv) to strengthen energy planning and develop pro-
grams for energy conservation in each region.
2.24     Yugoslavia has experienced delays in achieving the objectives of the
previous Plans to increase the production of domestic fuels, mainly because of
the large foreign exchange requirements of the projects included in the Plan.
The same financial constraints are likely to make it difficult to meet the
ambitious targets of the new Plan. However, while limitations in the avail-
ability of domestic fuels and electricity may not permit to undertake a
program of the magnitude-needed to achieve the objective of the Plan for fuel
substitution, there is ample room to consider fuel conversion projects in a
number of energy intensive industries. Also, there is a large potential for
energy conservation in industry as well as in other sectors. Energy planning
and energy conservation are the responsibilities of the regional and Federal
Committee for Energy and Industry, but there is as yet no agency specialized
in energy audit. An effective program for energy conservation/conversion in
industry would require the introduction of appropriate incentives and adjust-
ments in the energy price structure. The Bank has initiated a dialogue on
these issues with the Government during a recent review of the Energy and
Power Sector. The energy savings/conversion pilot component of the proposed
project is basically intended to assist enterprises and borrowing banks in
developing projects, but it will also help in identifying issues of an insti-
tutional and policy nature in this area.
E. Regional Development and Industry in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia
2.25     Over the past 30 years, the share of industry in GMP in the four
LDR grew faster than in other regions. Although the LDR started with a con-
siderably lower level of industrial development after Second World War, by
1980, industry's share in the GMP of the LDR (38 percent) exceeded that of the
more developed regions (MDR) (37 percent). However, the value added in
industry in the MDR is twice that in the LDR on a per capita basis. Because
of the LDRs' substantial wealth of mineral and energy resources, basic indus-
tries have played a very important role in their economies, implying a more
capital intensive industrial structure than for the MDR. Basic industries
made up more than 33 percent of industrial value added in the LDR 1980 com-
pared with 19 percent in the MDR. Over 56 percent of the LDR capital stock is
invested in Yugoslavia's 13 most capital intensive industrial branches. Among
the LDR, Montenegro and Kosovo continue to have the most capital intensive
industrial structures, with basic industries making up nearly 40 percent of
industrial value added. In addition to the need to exploit natural resources,
regional industrial planners have advocated the development of heavy indus-
tries because these were believed to generate high levels of savings; also, it



- 14 -
was easier to channel transfers of the Federal Fund, made at subsidized inte-
rest rates, in large capital intensive projects in view of the lack of indus-
trial experience, shortage of skilled labor and limited management capability
of the LDR.
2.26     Yugoslavia has maintained an impressive record of resource transfer
from the MDR to the LDR. Over the 1976-80 Plan, the transfer of concessional
investment funds through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of
Less Developed Regions 1/ amounted to approximately $4 billion. In addition,
federal grants of the order of $2 billion were provided to support local
social services in the LDR. Besides, joint ventures between enterprises of
the MDR and LDR were encouraged by various Federal laws, in order to increase
transfer of resources, industrial know-how and managerial capability and to
achieve better industrial integration and coordination amomg regions. For
various reasons, however, including the strong regional character of Yugoslav
enterprises and difficulties in moving capital, labor, managers and final pro-
ducts across regions in Yugoslavia, the incentives to joint ventures have not
been very effective. The new Federal Plan provides for a system to stimulate
the establishment of joint ventures that is likely to be more effective.
Enterprises of the MDR will be free to use up to 50 percent of their compul-
sory contributions to the Federal Fund to make investments in the LDR in the
form of credits to, or equity allocations for joint ventures. If MDR enter-
prises failed to invest directly their funds after a certain period of time,
the funds would have to be rechanneled to the Federal Fund. Joint ventures
with established exporting enterprises of the MDR, as well as with foreign
enterprises, will be of particular importance to develop export industries in
the LDR, since this should facilitate access to foreign markets. Total con-
tributions for transfers to LDR are projected at $7 billion for the five-year
period, representing 1.83 percent of the MDR's GMP. Transfers to each LDR are
allocated on the basis of comparative development levels, with the greater
part going to Kosovo.
2.27     Although, the situation and past performance of industry as well as
the priorities of industrial development strategy vary from one region to the
other, the issues discussed in the preceding sections with respect to the
industrial structure, exports, and energy for Yugoslavia as a whole, are rele-
vant to Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia, the two regions of the proposed pro-
ject. Their regional plans closely reflect the broad objectives of the
Federal Plan. Bosnia-Herzegovina has a relatively well developed industrial
sector, with large capacities in basic industries (steel, aluminum, metals,
chemicals, woods) and a number of manufacturing industries (the dominant sec-
tors are metal products and machinery, transport equipment, wood products and
furniture, and textiles products). Its commodities exports are already signi-
ficant - over $1.2 billion or 14 percent of the country's total exports, and
17.7 percent of the Republic's GMP in 1980 - and include a wide range of metal
products, wood products and paper, chemicals, electrical machinery, leather
products and textiles. The Republic Social Plan emphasizes export, based on
the processing of local raw materials (mainly metal, wood and agricultural
products, textiles and leather) and specialization, productivity increases in
1/ The Fund's resources are made from compulsory contributions by MDRs'
enterprises.



- 15 -
existing industries and employment creation. It provides for total gross
capital formation amounting to $11.7 billion for the five-year period, of
which $5 billion is to be in industry. Forty four percent of the industrial
investment is to be made in processing industries and 50 percent mainly to
complete ongoing projects in energy and basic industries (metallurgy and che-
micals). About one third of investment in processing industries will consist
of modernization and extension of existing capacities, particularly for
export.
2.28     In Macedonia, there are basic industries for the production of raw
materials - nickel, copper, lead, zinc, iron and steel, chemicals and non-
metallic minerals -- and manufacturing processing industries in a variety of
sectors (the dominant sectors are metal and non metallic mineral products,
transport equipment, textiles yarns and fabrics, textiles products and food
and tobacco industries). Commodity exports amounted to $420 million in 1980
representing nearly 5 percent of the country's total commodity exports and
13.4 percent of Macedonia GMP and are quite diversified (metals, textiles,
leather and footwear, tobacco, meat, transport equipment, steel structures and
metal products). In the Republic Five-Year Social Plan, industry is to be the
main determinant of GMP and export growth. Industrial exports are projected
by the Plan to grow at an average annual rate of above 8 percent. In indus-
try, the Plan gives first priority to export-oriented processing industries
based on local raw materials, and to modernization of existing industries in
order to increase productivity. It also emphasizes further decentralization
of industrial projects to prevent rural-urban migration, as well as employment
creation through development of small and medium scale industries. Investment
in industry is targeted at $2 billion for the five-year period, a substantial
amount of which in export-oriented industries, especially metal processing
industries.



- 16 -
III. THE FINANCIAL SETTING
A. The Financial Sector
3.01     In Yugoslavia, the basic principles of the Constitution guiding the
organization of the financial sector are that the monetary and credit system
is to be a constituent part of relations in the system of self management by
workers and the entire income earned in these relations is the social property
of the basic organizations of associated labor. The monetary system and the
foundations of the credit system are to be uniform. A new Federal Credit and
Banking Law was introduced in 1977 and made effective early 1978, reorganizing
the banking sector on the basis of these principles. Essentially the Law con-
verted the banks from autonomous decision-making units to institutions fully
integrated with the organisations of associated labor, self management commu-
nities of interest and other social organizations, which are their founder-
members. This integration implies joint management and profit-sharing by the
members together with unlimited liability for obligations and risk-sharing.
The socio-political communities cannot be founders of a banking organization.
3.02     The Law has established a three-tier banking structure, organized on
a regional basis and consisting of internal banks, basic banks and associated
banks. In addition provisions have been made for the establishment of spe-
cialized banks, such as the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Coopera-
tion, joint banks between Yugoslav and foreign banks, representative offices
of Yugoslav banks abroad and of foreign banks in Yugoslavia, and associations
of banking organizations. The financial sector also includes savings institu-
tions and cooperatives, and the system of National Banks. Other financial
entities comprise the Federal and regional investment loan funds (para 2.32),
and insurance communities. Auditing of all enterprises and banks is performed
by a single agency, the Social Accounting Service (SDK), which also operates
as clearing center for liabilities among enterprises.
3.03     An internal bank is a financial service organization established as a
legal entity through a self management agreement among BOALS of a large enter-
prise or Kombinat. It pools financial savings of the organizations making up
the enterprise for financing its projects and prepares financial plans. It
can perform all banking transactions related to the current operations of its
members. It monitors borrowings among them, and advise them on financial
management. It is also a credit union for the workers employed by its members,
but cannot accept sight deposits. There are about 120 such internal banks in
the country.
3.04     The basic and associated banks are the main financial intermediaries
in Yugoslavia, carrying out all commercial and investment banking functions
for all sectors of the economy. Basic banks are the core of the banking sys-
tem at the local level. Their founder-members are the organizations of asso-
ciated labor (enterprises), internal banks and social entities of their
region; in general, they evolved from branches of the commercial banks 1/ pre-
dating the new Law. They are the only banks which can accept sight deposits.
1/ These were, in fact, an apex bank for each region.



- 17 -
There are about 160 basic banks in Yugoslavia, their total assets and liabi-
lities ranging from Din. 300 million to Din. 150 billion. Associated banks are
founded by basic banks in the same region through a self management agreement,
to concentrate resources for financing larger investments and to carry out
foreign business transactions, including collecting savings-deposits of indi-
viduals abroad, on behalf of their members. In some respects, the concept of
Yugoslav associated banks is close to that of a usual DFC. They also adminis-
ter the Federal Fund and the regional funds allocations in their respective
regions. All three types of banks are required to prepare annual and five-
year plans which reflect the plans of their members. Of the nine associated
banks, there is one in each republic and autonomous province, with the excep-
tion of Serbia where three associated banks are operating and Croatia where
one is being established. The associated banks of Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia are the borrowers under this project. The institutional aspects of
the borrowing banks, their operations and performance are discussed in Chapter
IV of this report.
3.05     The nine Federal and regional National Banks were established in the
early seventies to replace the then existing National Bank. They are managed
by a Governor and a Council of Governors, appointed by the Federal Assembly
and the regional assemblies. They operate as a uniform central banking system
to implement the Federal and regional money and credit policies. They employ
such classic instruments as rediscounting of short-term credit and medium-term
credit for specific purposes (export, agricultural production), determination
and control of banks' reserves and liquidity requirements, and credit ceilings.
They issue treasury bills to the banks to neutralize excess liquidity and
grant short term credit to them. They act as bankers to governments and
socio-political communities. They control foreign payments, regulate foreign
exchange and can borrow abroad. Based on a recent agreement, they carry the
foreign exchange risk on local bank deposits of individuals abroad. They do
not lend directly to enterprises, but they provide credit to basic and asso-
ciated banks for financing priority activities. The National Banks have limi-
ted influence on interest rates except through their rediscounting instruments.
In addition to access to short term credit from the National Banks and normal
rediscounting facilities, the banks can borrow from each other through daily
money markets in each region. Other important features of the financial sec-
tor are the possibility for banks to form consortia for financing important
investments, and commercial operations abroad, and to establish associations
of banking organizations. The most important is the Yugoslav Banks Associa-
tion which coordinates the banks' policies and procedures across Yugoslavia,
including, in particular, interest rate policies (para 3,14).
3.06     There are a number of savings banks to collect household savings and
grant housing and consumer credits, and many savings credit cooperatives and
services. The main institution is the Post Office Saving Bank which operates
across the country. Beside these savings institutions and saving accounts in
basic banks, there are few financial instruments available to potential savers
other than short and medium term bonds issued by the Federal Government and
bonds issued by the larger Kombinats. There are no open capital markets.
However, organizations of associated labor can make investment loans to each
other or equity allocations for joint ventures, and pool investment
resources.



- 18 -
B. Export Credit
3.07     Exporters have access to credit at subsidized terms.  Short term
credit is made available by the basic banks, for preparation of export
(production) and shipping. The maximum maturity is one year with interest
rates up to 8 percent for production and 6 percent for shipping. These cre-
dits are rediscounted by the National Bank at preferential rates. They are
provided to exporters on a priority basis, even in case of limitations on
rediscounting facilities. According to Yugoslav banks and exporting enter-
prises, access to short term credit for export is not a constraint. Until
1979 access to longer term credit facilities for financing export of capital
goods was limited and provided by the banks out of the resources of the Export
Credit and Insurance Fund and the National Banks. It is estimated that export
credit covers about 35 percent of Yugoslav exports of capital equipment.
3.08     Aware of the need to increase the availability of long-term credit
for capital goods export financing to sustain international competition, espe-
cially in the developing countries, the authorities established, in 1979, the
Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC). Expansion of
export credit availability is also recommended in the new Federal Plan and the
plans of the banks include provisions to this end. YBIEC provides i) export
credit insurance against non commercial risks; ii) refinancing in domestic
currency medium and long-term export credit made by the banks; and iii) buyers
credits to foreign buyers of capital goods, turn-key projects and contracting
services. According to its by-laws, the YBIEC is also entitled to promote,
oversee and aid the establishment in Yugoslavia of joint financial organiza-
tions with foreign parties or to provide assistance to joint ventures in other
markets. It may be entrusted with responsibilities in the implementation of
Yugoslav international agreements. Finally, it is to monitor international
trade and help promote Yugoslav exports in general.  It can effect interna-
tional payment transfers and perform international credit transactions. Its
resources are the funds transferred from the Export Credit and Insurance Fund,
resources pooled by its founding members, credits from the Federal National
Bank and reserves deposited by the basic and associated banks in the form of
long-term loans. YBIEC has also begun to borrow externally.
3.09     In 1980, the YBIEC refinanced export credits for an amount of Din. 7
billion ($300 million). The amount of refinancing varies from 60 to 80 per-
cent of the credit depending on the nature of export and its country of des-
tination, with a maturity of 5 to 10 years (long-term) for ships and turn-key
projects and 3 to 5 years (medium-term) for capital goods.  The interest rate
is 5 percent (the banks charge 5 1/2 - 6% on their medium and long-term export
credits). YBIEC provided export credit insurance and export insurance for a
total amount of Din. 9 billion ($370 million) in 1980, at a rate of 1 - 1-1/4%.
The provision of buyers' credit has been limited, amounting to 5 percent of
YBIEC operations in 1980. The bulk of export credits has been made to the
convertible currency area and mainly to developing countries (70 percent of
the total). The terms of these credits are more favorable than those of the
major export crediting agencies in other Western countries. However, the cost
to the Yugoslav economy of subsidizing export credit is overcompensated by its
long term benefits in terms of balance of payments and economic growth.



- 19 -
C. Resource Mobilization and Allocation
3.10     Yugoslavia's saving rate has been traditionally high and resource
mobilization through fiscal policies and financial intermediation has been
quite effective. The bulk of domestic savings (about 60 percent of the total)
is generated by the enterprises of the social sector. Their investments,
however, are considerably higher than their accumulation, resulting in large
negative financial savings. Households and, to a lesser extent, non economic
organizations constitute the main source of financial savings. Foreign
resources have also represented a significant share of investment resources,
particularly during the 1976-80 Plan. Besides equity (founders' fund), the
resources of banks are made up of sight and term deposits of household and
private sector, enterprises and other organizations, resources from thz
regional funds, and from the Federal Fund in the case of banks of the LDR,
borrowing from other banks in Yugoslavia, and foreign borrowing. Each bank
has a monopoly in its region as a mobilizer of resources, but it can lend in
other regions. The enterprises are free to choose their banks and banks can
"pool" resources among themselves for major investments. The banks have had
the right to invest up to 50 percent of their short-term resources in long
term credits. To limit the liquidity risk implied by this practice and to
restrain investment growth the new Federal Plan prescribes that the use of
short-term funds for long term investment will now be approved by the monetary
authorities on an annual basis. At the end of 1980 the two borrowing banks
were using only about 15 percent of their short-term resources for long-term
investments.
3.11     The associated banks' efforts in mobilizing foreign resources have
been directed at guaranteeing suppliers' and buyei's'. credits committed by
enterprises, attracting deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad and obtaining
foreign loans. The current policy of associated banks, however,is to limit
considerably foreign borrowings in the form of financial credits from com-
mercial banks because of their high cost. Since mid-1980, the National bank
has replaced banks as the principal borrower of financial credits in order
both to facilitate negotiations with foreign sources and to ensure better
coordination in approaching international markets.
3.12     Yugoslavia's planning mechanism involves a process of intensive con-
sultations between all groups in society, materializing in plans at the enter-
prises, communal, regional, federal and banking sector levels, and the conclu-
sion of social compacts and self-management agreements which have the force of
law. Ultimately the social compacts and self-management agreements are bin-
ding for the banks. Their five-year plans for allocating funds in the prio-
rity sectors are to be the synthesis of federal, regional and enterprises
plans. The banks' five-year plans include policies and measures to increase
resources, sectoral objectives and criteria for allocating resources, projec-
tions of resources and fund allocations by sector, sub-sector and sources of
funds, liquidity targets, etc. In the non priority sectors, the allocative
role of banks is also essential since the demand of enterprises for investment
funds is consistently exceeding the resources available to the banks. At the
stage of investment decisions, the banks have a key role to play in ensuring
that the projects presented by the enterprises are consistent with the priori-
ties set forth in the plans, in terms of sectors, location, markets,



- 20 -
technology, employment effects, etc., correspond to the investment proposals
initially agreed in the planning process and are economically and financially
viable. Although it is not required, enterprises usually submit their pro-
jects to the regional Chamber of Economy, mainly to ensure coordination of
industrial development among regions, but the banks are the only institutions
formally involved in investment decisions with the enterprises. The banks'
impact on project preparation is also significant as most projects are brought
to the banks' attention at an early stage.
3.13      The project evaluation work of the banks is usually limited and only
selective project evaluation techniques are applied, except for projects
financed from IBRD loans by banks in the LDR. The banks rely on the feasibi-
lity reports on individual projects made by economic institutes (independent
consulting organizations often attached to universities) or specialized ins-
titutes within large Kombinats. Following the reform of the banking system,
the assembly of each bank is made up of delegates elected by its member enter-
prises (or member basic banks, in case of associated banks), as are its execu-
tive board, managing board and credit board. This contributes to make the
banks well aware of the needs of the enterprises they serve and economic
objectives and priorities in their regions. On the other hand, although it is
too early to make a judgment, it is possible that this reform could weaken
somewhat the ability of the banks to make investment decisions guided exclu-
sively by economic considerations. However, improved project evaluation by
the banks would enable investment decisions to be made in full knowledge of
economic and financial facts, and contribute to reduce the influence of non
economic factors, as stricter project supervision by banks would greatly con-
tribute to improve project implementation and investment efficiency.
D. Interest Rates
3.14      Until recently, medium and long term loans made from the bank's
domestic resources carried interest rates ranging from 3 to 10 percent,
according to sectors and sources of funds.  In the first half of 1981, long
term lending rates averaged 7.15 percent.  Deposit rates varied from 6 to 7
percent for term deposits of enterprises up to two years (no restriction above
two years) and, in'the case of households, from 7.5 percent for saving sight
deposits to 10 percent for time deposit over two years. The latter rate
applied also to deposits in foreign exchange from individuals abroad. Compa-
ratively, the inflation rate in Yugoslavia, which averaged about 14 percent
between 1976 and 1979, rose to 39 percent in 1980 and 56 percent, on an annual
basis, in the first half of 1981. However, thanks to anti-inflationary mea-
sures taken by the Government, inflation substantially slowed down in the
second half of the year, to an annual rate of 25 percent. The Government
target is to reduce the inflation rate to 15 percent in 1982 and projections
in Yugoslavia and the Bank for the medium term are for inflation rates in the
range of 13-15 percent. Deposit interest rates across Yugoslavia are regu-
lated by the Yugoslav Banks Association. Lending rates are not regulated,
except for onlending of Federal and regional funds and for lending to priority
sectors. Each bank's lending rates are established by its founder-members on
an annual basis through self-management agreements. There is, however, de
facto coordination among banks within and across regions for establishing the
structure of lending rates. On foreign currency loans made by the associated
banks, the base interest rate is set by the banks' cost (or the weighted



- 21 -
average cost) of foreign borrowing plus a spread determined by each bank.
Since the sub-borrowers assume the foreign exchange risk and the Yugoslav
banks are not profit maximizer, the spread of banks on foreign loans is
relatively low, generally in the order of 1 percent.
3.15      The negative structure of real interest rates has been an issue
between Yugoslavia and the Bank for many years. As a condition of the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (FY78), the Yugoslav Government committed the
National Bank to prepare a study of the role of interest rates in Yugoslav
economy. The study was submitted to the Bank in early 1980. It described in
detail the Yugoslav system and concluded that if interest rates were to become
a binding constraint on investment planning, this would preempt the dominant
role of social planning and group consensus in determining investment alloca-
tion in the priority sectors. It finds that in the Yugoslav context, interest
rates could become a significant factor only in resource allocation for non-
priority investments where income maximization as opposed to social objectives
is the criterion. However, under IC V (Loans 1909-YU - 1912-YU approved in
November 1980) it was agreed between the Bank and the borrowing banks that the
lending rate to sub-projects on loans from their own local currency resources
will be increased from a minimum of 7% to 10% and that a policy dialogue on
interest rates will be pursued.
3.16      Views that interest rates could play an economic role, even in the
system of social planning, have begun to gain increasing acceptance in Yugos-
lavia. The new Federal Social Plan and the resolutions of the National Assem-
bly have prescribed that interest rates should be a more active instrument of
resource mobilization and allocation. For several months the Yugoslav Banks
Association has conducted a review of the interest rate structure. In
February 1982, the Yugoslav Banks Association and the Government have decided
as follows. Deposit rates on sight and term deposits would be increased by 1
to 5 points above the present maxima and the National Banks would increase the
discount rate from 6 to 12 percent and their rates on selective credits from
1-4 percent to 4-8 percent; commercial banks would then raise accordingly
their lending rates. The medium-term objective is to introduce steadily a
structure of positive real interest rates by gradually adjusting interest
rates and, concurrently, reducing inflation. The priority sectors would
continue to benefit from special, although somewhat increased, rates.
3.17      In the context of proposed loans, it was agreed with the borrowing
banks to further increase the interest rate on their long-term loans to
sub-projects made from their own local currency resources to a minimum of
15%. If inflation diminishes to 13% in 1984, as projected, and remains at
that level in subsequent years, a nominal interest rate of 15% would corres-
pond to a positive real interest rate of about 2% over the life of the loan.
The policy dialogue on interest rates, as provided under IC V, should continue
and interest rates in Yugoslavia should be reviewed on an annual basis.
3.18      The banks also provide long-term local currency loans from the
Federal and republic funds. Most of these funds are obligatory contributions
imposed on enterprises in Yugoslavia to meet specific social objectives and,
therefore, their mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest rate



- 22 -
changes. In line with what was agreed under IC V, no floor rates should apply
to banks' lending from these resources and the rates currently applicable to
such funds should continue.
3.19     The proposed Bank loans will be onlent by the borrowing banks to
sub-borrowers after adding a minimum spread of 1.25% on the Bank's interest
rate applicable at the time of the approval of the loans. This spread would
be sufficient to cover administrative expenses and other related costs/
provisions of the borrowing banks. As sub-borrowers will carry the foreign
exchange risk on the proposed loans, the real cost of the Bank's funds to
sub-borrowers would be very close to that of international commercial sources
taking into account the currency pooling system and current international
lending rates. Also, the onlending rate would be positive in real dinar terms
considering that the ultimate cost to sub-borrowers will include the foreign
exchange risk.



- 23 -
IV. THE BORROWING BANKS 1/
A. Structure
4.01     Legal Framework.  Each bank has its own Self-Management Agreement
that defines the basic objectives and the nature of operations; and a statute
that describes the organization, the decision-making process and the policy
for planned operations. The banks' operations are regulated by the National
Bank of Yugoslavia and various Federal directives (para 3.05); conformity with
laws and regulations is ensured through supervision by the National Bank and
the Social Accounting Service (SDK).
4.02     Ownership.  The banks' shareholders (founders or members) are the
basic banks (24 for SBS and 22 for PBS) which hold share capital (founders'
fund). The basic banks are, in turn, owned by organizations of associated
labor from most of the enterprises in the region served by individual banks.
Each member has an unlimited liability for the obligations of its bank.
4.03     Assembly and Boards.  The Assembly of a bank is its highest governing
body and is made up of delegates elected by its members. The Assembly
approves the bank's Five-Year Plan, Annual Plan and Business Policy including
interest rates, and elects the executive, managing and credit boards from
among its delegates. It also decides on the distribution in aggregate of the
bank's income to employees and members.
4.04     The Executive Board is the executive organ of each bank's assembly
and is responsible for supervising the execution of the Medium-Term Develop-
ment Plan of the bank and for implementing the policies approved by the
Assembly. The Managing Board which comprises seven members-in SBS and five in
PBS, coordinates the work between the different organizational units and
carries out decisions of the Assembly and the Executive Board. A Credit Board
was created in the banks in 1980 to approve lending and borrowing operations.
This function was performed previously by the Executive Board but, due to its
other pre-occupations, it was transfered to the newly-created Credit Board
which consists of delegates from basic banks.
4.05     Policies and Activities.  The annual business policy of each bank,
approved by the Assembly as an integral part of the bank's plan, is prepared
against the background of the regional development plan, the bank's own medium
range plan and the plans of the basic banks and their members who are also
their borrowers. The business policy covers the mobilization and allocation of
resources, and the budget for the forthcoming year.
4.06     The banks do not have formal financial policies concerning their
operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity ratio although
general financial policy guidelines are included in the banks' five-year
plan. The banks generally follow prudent practices. Any substantial
allocation of funds, to a particular project or enterprise, has to be in
1/ In this chapter, institutional aspects essentially relate to associated
banks, whereas operational and financial aspects cover the combined
position of associated banks and their member basic banks. The general
organizational aspects of the banking sector are discussed in Chapter 3.



- 24 -
accordance with the regional plan. Debt to equity ratios are not very
meaningful in the Yugoslav context, as large amounts of Federal and Republic/
Provincial Funds are available to the banks which, while treated as debt, have
more the character of managed funds.
4.07      The banks accept time and saving deposits from enterprises and citi-
zens (a role assigned to basic banks) and carry out bulk of all investments
realized in each Republic. Foreign transactions are made exclusively through
the associated banks. The banks' lending activities are discussed in paras
4.17 to 4.18.
B. Management, Staff, Organization and Procedures
4.08      Management.  The chief executive of each bank is the President of the
Managing Board, who is appointed for a four-year term by the bank's Assembly
upon recommendations of a committee comprising five members of the Assembly.
The senior management of both banks is competent. Managers are typically
university graduates with many years of experience, often in both banking and
industry. Changes of top managers are infrequent, and professional competence
is the main criterion for selection and appointment at all levels.
4.09      Staff.  At the end of 1980, the total number of staff was 462 at PBS
and 515 at SBS. The professional staff of PBS was 253 (defined as those with
a minimum of two years' college education), and was up 9.5% between June 30,
1979 and December 31, 1980. 1/ The professional staff included 122 economists/
financial analysts and 23 engineers. The professional staff of SBS was 189 as
of December 31, 1980, and had increased by 11.2% since June 30, 1979. It
included 123 economists/financial analysts and 23 engineers. Three qualified
senior staff worked in a special group in each bank dealing with Bank assisted
industrial projects. This special group is mainly responsible for coordina-
ting with similar groups in other borrowing banks, maintaining liaison with
the Bank and supervising the appraisal and follow-up work of sub-projects
financed under the Bank's industrial credit lines. The professional staff of
the banks is generally competent and efficient. The basic member banks of PBS
and SBS had a total staff of 5,434 and 2,107 respectively at the end of 1980.
4.10      Organization.  The two banks have a similar organization.  They are
functionally organized with departments for such activities as resource plan-
ning, investment and administration. The investment activity is sub-divided
into groups for industry, agriculture, etc., with a common engineering depart-
ment in case of SBS and a special unit in charge of promotion and training
activities in case of PBS. The former branch offices of these banks have been
given the status of basic banks under the new Credit and Banking Law. The
member basic banks together with their offices in different towns carry out
main banking functions with considerable autonomy.
4.11      Appraisal Procedures.  All projects are first examined and approved
by member basic banks and those that exceed their resources, and/or those
involving federal or republic/provincial funds, or foreign exchange, are
forwarded to associated banks for further detailed appraisal and approval;
these include all projects financed by Bank funds.
1/  The SAR for IC V (report No. 2965-YU) had data up to June 30, 1979.



- 25 -
4.12     The quality of appraisal reports prepared by PBS and SBS for the Bank
financed sub-projects is generally good. The reports normally provide suffi-
cient details on technical and financial viability of projects and include
calculations of FRR and ERR for all above free limit cases. However, the
quality of appraisal reports is still uneven in three main areas which need
further improvement. First, the marketing evaluation of projects should be
invariably more elaborate and supported by all relevant assumptions, facts and
figures on demand, supply, prices and marketing channels. Second, provisions
for contingencies in the estimated capital cost of projects should be made on
a conservative basis in all cases to avoid cost overruns and delays in project
completion. Third, ERR calculations, where applicable, should take into
account border/shadow prices in all project appraisals irrespective of their
size. These issues were discussed during negotiations and the banks agreed to
bring required improvements. It is anticipated that the experience to be
gained by the staff in improving the appraisal of Bank financed sub-projects
would enhance its overall capability to perform a better appraisal of all
industrial projects to be financed by the two banks.
4.13     Supervision Procedures.  The bank staff normally make an annual
visit, together with SDK staff, to assisted projects, in accordance with the
legal requirements. The project supervision during this visit is generally of
a financial nature. The bank staff is in more frequent contact with sub-
borrowers facing financial and debt-servicing difficulties.  However, in view
of the recent rise in arrears (para 4.29), it is essential that the banks
should introduce a better organized and more intensive project supervision
system covering management, technical, financial and marketing aspects. This
would help in the early identification of potential problems and assistance to
sub-borrowers in the successful implementation and operation of projects. The
outline of a project supervision program, which would include periodic
reporting by borrowers, planned visits by banks' staff to project sites, and
use of standard reporting formats, was discussed and agreed with the banks
during negotiations. It was also agreed that the systematic supervision of
all Bank-financed projects will start after negotiations of the proposed loans
and will be fully operational within 1982. In addition, the banks will
endeavor to apply a similar system to all other industrial projects financed
by them. In order to improve the effectiveness of supervision work, PBS has
decided to set up a new division with 15 professional staff for the supervi-
sion work. In the case of SBS, the appraisal staff will also be responsible
for the project supervision and six additional professionals are being
employed to intensify the supervision work. Associated banks, though fully
responsible for the overall supervision, are also making formal arrangements
with their basic banks to delegate some of the supervision work.
4.14     Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement procedures followed by the
two banks are uniform and generally acceptable. Under Yugoslav laws, the
borrower must obtain at least three bids for all equipment and services.
Exceptions to this requirement are allowed in special circumstances; for
example, for Yugoslav contractors for specialized installation work when there
are less than three firms capable of doing the work. Large projects require
international tendering. In determining the most appropriate procurement pro-
cedure for any sub-project, the borrowing banks should consider international
competitive bidding (ICB), and such ICB requirements were for the first time
included in IC III and IV and again in IC V. Similar ICB requirements will
have to be met under Industrial Credit VI.



- 26 -
4.15     Disbursements are made on the basis of invoices from suppliers and
contractors or similar evidence of deliveries, or on the execution of con-
tracts. The disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
C. Operations 1/
4.16     The main areas of operations of the two banks continue to be loans
and guarantees and are summarized below:
Table 1: YUGOSLAVIA - Summary of Operations of PBS and SBS
(Din billion)
Commitments
1977   1978   1979   1980
PBS
Short-term loans   50.1   66.0   87.9  108.4
Long-term loans    19.0   10.9   15.8   15.7
Guarantees          21.0   30.3   28.1   31.0
Total            90.1  107.2  131.8  155.1
SBS
Short-term loans   22.2   30.8   41.4   51.8
Long-term loans    13.7   12.5   11.1   19.1
Guarantees           2.9    n.a.  19.3   28.6
Total            38.8    n.a.  71.8   99.5
PBS's overall loan and guarantee activity showed a growing trend until the end
of 1979, with total commitments 2/ increasing by 1.7% p.a. in real terms. In
1980, total commitments dropped by 7.4% in real terms due to reduced invest-
ments in construction and other non-productive sectors. SBS's overall loan
and guarantee activity has experienced a steady growth since 1977, with total
commitments increasing by 10.4% p.a. in real terms.
4.17     Short-term loans.  The majority of short-term loans are revolving
credits with maturities of up to one year to provide working capital to
enterprises and are made by the basic banks from their own resources. PBS's
short-term loan commitments increased by 6.4% p.a. in real terms between 1977
and 1980 from Din. 50.1 billion ($2.64 billion) to Din 108.4 billion ($4.35
billion). SBS's short-term loan commitments increased by 9.1% p.a. in real
terms over the same period from Din. 22.2 billion($1.17 billion) in 1977 to
Din. 51.8 billion ($2.08 billion) in 1980.
4.18     Long-term loans.  Most long-term loans (above one year's maturity)
are for capital expenditure with maturities ranging from seven to fifteen
years. PBS's long-term loan commitments were exceptionally high in 1977,
mainly due to investments in a few very large projects. In 1979 and 1980, its
1/ Covers consolidated operations and position of associated banks and their
member basic banks.
2/ Adjusted by the investment cost deflator over the 1977-1980 period.



- 27 -
long-term loan commitments remained at about Din. 15.8 billion ($634.5
million) in current prices indicating a decline in real terms in 1980. Manu-
facturing accounted for 52% of the total long-term commitments made by PBS in
1980, the most active sectors being metallurgy, wood products and metal pro-
ducts. Other long-term commitments were made principally to the mining and
energy sector (24%) and agriculture and forestry (8%).   SBS's long-term
commitments, after a decline in 1978 and 1979, increased by 35% in real terms
in 1980 to reach Din 19.1 billion ($767 million) or 35% of total commitments.
This trend was due, in particular, to the late realization of several projects
which were included in the 1976-1980 Plan. Manufacturing accounted for 50% of
the total long-term commitments made by SBS in 1980, with textiles, metal pro-
ducts, chemicals and food processing and tobacco being the most active sectors.
Other long-term commitments were made principally to mining and energy (30%),
and agriculture and forestry (7%).
4.19     Guarantees.  The total amount of guarantees issued by PBS in favor of
enterprises in 1980 amounted to Din 31.0 billion ($1.24 billion), of which 11%
were in foreign currency. The total amount of guarantees of SBS in 1980
amounted to Din. 19.1 billion ($770 million) of which 48% were in foreign.
currency. The industrial sector received the bulk of the guarantees issued by
the two banks during the 1978-1980 period.
4.20     Industrial Projects Size  The average size of PBS's long-term loan
commitments to industry (excluding mines and energy) increased in 1980 dollars
from $1.4 million in 1977 to $1.8 million in 1980, confirming the financing of
mostly medium-sized industrial projects by PBS. The average size of SBS's
long-term loans to industry (excluding mines and energy) declined in 1980
dollars from $0.96 million in 1977 to $0.76 million in 1979, then increased to
$1.15 million in 1980. This increase which is mainly due to a few large
capital-intensive projects in the metallurgy sector should not necessarily
indicate a reversal of the trend. The general decrease in the size of SBS's
long-term loans to industry is in accordance with Macedonia's industrial
investment strategy which increasingly emphasizes smaller industries.
D. The Banks' Financial Situation _/
4.21     Resource Position.  The long-term resource position of PBS and SBS as
of December 31, 1980 is summarized below:
1/ Covers consolidated position of associated banks and their member basic
banks.



- 28 -
Table 2: YUGOSLAVIA - Long-Term Resource Position of PBS and SBS
as of December 31, 1980
PBS                      SBS
Din.                     Din.
millions       %         millions        %
Resources
Equity                             5,626        6            4,665        7
Federal and Regional Funds        38,720       40           25,278       36
Local Borrowings                   3,892        4            6,095        9
IBRD Loans                         4,402        5            5,360        8
Other Foreign Borrowings          17,095       17            7,902       11
Long-term Deposits                27,254       28           20,813       29
Total Long-term Resources
Available                          96,989      100           70,113      100
Applications
Long-term Loan Portfolio         112,579                    77,536
Available for Disb~ursements         (15,590)                   (7,423)
Less: Undisbursed Commitments         11,619                    28,762
Uncommitted Resources (Over-
commitments)                       (27,209)                  (36,185)
4.22     The total outstanding resources of PBS and SBS increased by 26% and
23% respectively between the end of 1979 and 1980.  The largest source of
funds for both banks are the Federal and regional funds which accounted for
40% and 36% of their total resources as of December 31, 1980.  The banks are
responsible for investing and managing the use of these funds in priority pro-
jects.  While treated as debt, the Federal and republic funds have more the
character of managed funds. The funds are lent at 3-7.5% interest for invest-
ment purposes and repaid to the original source at 2-5.5% over a period of
seventeen years, including three years' grace. The banks have met the short-
fall in their long-term resources by using a relatively small amount of their
short-term deposits, which is permissible under the National Bank regulations.
The resource gap of the two banks (on a commitment basis) will be covered
largely by Federal Fund resources to be received on a yearly basis in accor-
dance with the Plan.
4.23     Financial Performance.  The banks in Yugoslavia are not profit maxi-
mizers; they are expected to earn an income that is adequate to cover their
expenses and to make required allocations to various reserves. Against this
background, the profitability of the borrowing banks has been satisfactory.
PBS's net income before taxes (Annex 9) increased from Din. 1.50 billion
($78.9 million) in 1978 to Din. 1.88 billion ($98.9 million) in 1979, but
decreased to Din. 1.51 billion ($51.0 million) in 1980 mainly due to (i)
write-off of bad debt of Din. 275 million ($11.0 million) as compared with
Din. 4 million in 1979 (para 4.30), and (ii) an increase of Din. 214 million



- 29 -
($8.59 million) in administrative expenses. However, PBS's administrative
expenses were still low in 1980 and represented about 0.8% of average assets.
The interest spread was about 2.5% during the 1977-1980 period and is consi-
dered more than adequate in Yugoslav context. SBS's net income before taxes
(Annex 9) increased from Din. 0.8 billion ($42.1 million) in 1978 to Din. 1.11
billion ($58.4 million) in 1979 and Din. 1.26 billion ($42.6 million) in
1980. The interest spread of SBS slightly increased from 2.0% in 1979 to 2.2%
in 1980 and was satisfactory. The administrative expenses have remained low
and were 0.5% of average assets in 1980. The banks have made required contri-
butions to various reserves out of net income. The banks have also started,
in 1978, the distribution of a significant portion of their net income to
members to comply with the new Credit and Banking Law but such payments were
ploughed back to bring the various statutory reserves (Reserve Fund and Joint
Liability Fund) to the levels required under the law (paras 4.27 and 4.30).
4.24     During January 1975 - September 1980, PBS and SBS, like other commer-
cial banks in Yugoslavia, suffered foreign exchange losses of Din. 1,624
million ($82.0 million) and Din. 394 million ($19.9 million) respectively on
foreign currency saving accounts due to currency revaluation. These losses
were originally expected to be reimbursed by Federal sources and were, there-
fore, treated as accrued income. However, a Law effective June 16, 1979 sti-
pulated that the bulk of these losses will be borne by the banks and amortized
over a period of up to 40 years. The Law also provided for the protection of
banks from such losses in future through a mechanism which provided that banks
can deposit their foreign currency saving accounts with the National Bank and
borrow Dinar equivalent for their local currency lending purposes. The
National Bank, therefore, carries the foreign exchange risk for the amounts so
deposited. A few basic member banks of PBS and SBS did not avail of this
facility of the National Bank for some of their deposits and carried the
foreign exchange risk on their foreign currency saving accounts on June 30,
1980 when Dinar was devalued by 30%. As a result, they suffered a loss of
Dinar 539 million ($21.6 million) and Dinar 45 million ($1.8 million) respec-
tively. The concerned basic banks did not have sufficient net income in 1980
to write-off these losses and, therefore, it was decided to amortize them over
the next 10 years. These losses are reflected in the consolidated annual
accounts of associated and basic member banks. During negotiations, assu-
rances were received that, in future, the banks will invariably protect them-
selves against the foreign exchange risk in their lending and borrowing opera-
tions, including deposits. The foreign exchange risk on loans received from
the World Bank is already transferred to sub-borrowers.
4.25     Financial Position.  The comparative audited balance sheets of PBS
and SBS for the 1978-1980 period are given in Annex 10. PBS's total assets
reached Din. 196.4 billion ($6.6 billion) by the end of 1980. Its long-term
loan and investment portfolio increased by 5.3% in real terms since 1978 to
reach Din. 100.9 billion ($3.4 billion) in 1980. The growth of PBS's lending
activity, particularly in 1978, has brought about a 75% increase in long-term
deposits and borrowings, from Din. 34.4 billion ($1.8 billion) in 1978 to Din.
60.1 billion ($2.4 billion) in 1980. Consequently, the long-term debt/equity
ratio of PBS increased from 11.5:1 in 1978 to 13.7:1 in 1979 and 15.5:1 in
1980. However, if the Federal and republic funds are excluded from the debt/
equity calculations in view of their special nature (para 4.06), the debt/
equity ratio would only be 8.6:1 in 1980.



- 30 -
4.26     SBS's total assets reached Din. 121.4 billion ($4.1 billion) by the
end of 1980 (Annex 10) with a long-term loan and investment portfolio of Din
73.5 billion ($2.5 billion) which increased by 12% p.a. in real terms since
1978. The steady growth of SBS's lending activity has brought an 81% increase
in its long-term deposits and borrowings, from Din. 24.9 billion ($1.3
billion) in 1978 to Din. 54.1 billion ($1.8 billion) in 1980.  Consequently,
the debt/equity ratio increased from 10.1:1 in 1978 to 11.8:1 in 1979 and
14.1:1 in 1980. However, if the Federal and republic funds are excluded from
the debt/equity calculations, the debt/equity ratios would decline to 8.7:1 in
1980. The Bank's loans to PBS and SBS (as well as to other borrowing banks in
Yugoslavia) do not provide for a maximum debt-equity ratio because of the par-
ticular criteria used in assessing the credit-worthiness of these institutions
(para 4.33). The short-term deposits of the two banks increased by about 70%
during the 1978-1980 period.
4.27     Liquidity  The liquidity position of the banks is regulated by the
National Bank and supervised by SDK. The current ratio of PBS and SBS was 0.8
and 0.9 at the end of 1980 which is considered acceptable in view of the over-
all regulations of the National Bank for maintaining the liquidity position of
the banks. In addition, the Yugoslav Credit and Banking Law of 1978 requires
that the banks should create a Reserve Fund to maintain their liquidity; this
fund must reach a minimum level of 3% of the banks' total outstanding port-
fclio. The Law also provides that the banks will have to allocate out of
their net income a sum equivalent to a minimum of 0.3% of their total port-
folio every year until the Reserve Fund reaches the required level of 3%. PBS
and SBS have been complying with this requirement and their Reserve Fund
reached 1.0% and 1.2% of their total portfolio respectively as of December 31,
1980.
4.28     Arrears.  The arrears on long-term loans of the two banks are
presented in the following table:
Table 3: YUGOSLAVIA - Long-Term Loans in Arrears of PBS and SBS
as of December 31, 1979 and 1980
(Dinars millions)
PBS                       SBS
1979        1980          1979         1980
A.  Long-term loan portfolio         88,483      112,579       56,141       77,536
B.  Long-term loans affected
by arrears of over 3 months   17,010         28,435       13,858       17,702
C.  B as percentage of A                 19.2         25.3         24.7         22.8
D.  Principal in arrears of
-over 3 months                   1,157        2,645        2,208        3,161
-3 - 6 months                      427        1,215         1,392        1,771
-6 - 12 months                     551          657           373          570
-over 12 months                     179          773         443           820
E.  D as percentage of A                  1.3          2.3          3.9          4.1



- 31 -
4.29     The principal in arrears over three months reached 2.3% of out-
standing long-term loan portfolio of PBS on December 31, 1980 as compared with
1.3% at the end of 1979, while the portfolio affected by arrears became Din.
28.4 billion ($1.04 billion) or 25.3% of the long-term loan portfolio (19.2%
at the end of 1979). The arrears situation of SBS remained almost unchanged
in 1979 and 1980 though there was an increase in absolute amounts. Its total
principal in arrears over three months was 4.1% of oustanding long-term loan
portfolio on December 31, 1980, as compared with 3.9% at the end of 1979. The
portfolio affected by arrears of more than three months was Din. 17,702
million ($600 million) or 22.8% of the loan portfolio outstanding as of
December 31, 1980 (24.7% at the end of 1979). Arrears of PBS and SBS related
largely to less than 12 months (71% and 74% respectively of principal in
arrears) and were mainly the result of delays in construction faced by a
number of projects, which are expected to commence loan repayments after their
completion. The arrears situation of PBS and SBS can therefore be considered
acceptable but both the banks need to pay more attention to improve the qua-
lity of their portfolio and to maintain the arrears within a reasonable level
(about 2% of oustanding long-term loan portfolio). A systematic project
supervision program as agreed with the banks (para 4.13) would make possible,
inter alia, closer monitoring of projects under implementation and assistance
in their timely completion. In particular, closer follow up of new projects
should permit to reduce delays in construction and secure the financing of
possible cost overruns which result in arrears due to late start of operations.
4.30     Under  rugoslav regulations effective July 1, 1977, banks may make
provisions for doubtful loans and interest receivable, although such doubtful
items may be written off only when determined as losses by a bank assembly or
a court. Furthermore, the Founders' Fund (para 4.23) can be used to write off
uncollectible loans.   PBS made a provision of Din. 276 million ($9.4 million)
for doubtful loans in 1980 and for the first time a substantial amount, of
Din. 275 million ($9.4 million) was written off against this provision (Din. 5
million in 1979). 1/ The Founders' Fund of PBS amounted to Din. 1,496 million
($51.1 million), i.e. 1.5% of the bank's long-term loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1980 and, according to the Yugoslav Credit and Banking Law, it
should reach 3% of PBS's long-term loan portfolio by January 15, 1982 through
fresh contributions by members, if necessary. SBS's provisions for doubtful
loans and interest receivable amounted to Din. 21 million ($0.72 million) at
the end of 1980. The total uncollectible principal and interest written off
in 1980 was only Din. 15 million ($0.51 million), as compared with Din. 19
million ($0.72 million) in 1979. The Founders' Fund of SBS was Din. 1,586
million ($54.1 million), i.e. 2.2% of SBS's long-term loan and investment
portfolio as of December 31, 1980 and, as for PBS, it will be increased equi-
valent to 3% of SBS's long-term loan portfolio by January 1982. None of the
banks has written-off any amounts against the Founders' Fund.
4.31     The banks have not experienced the need for significant write-offs
(leaving one exceptional case of PBS in 1980) and reschedulings have been
minimal. The management of each bank is confident and the Bank concurs that
in the particular context of Yugoslavia, significant losses will not occur in
the future and adequate provisions have been made for possible small losses.
1/ A trading company with inadequate collatorals went bankrupt in 1980
causing this write-off.



- 32 -
4.32      Audit  SDK's audit for the two banks has made satisfactory progress
in gradually broadening the scope of its work and applying, to the extent
possible, generally accepted accounting and auditing standards. The earlier
audit reports had not covered the assessment of the quality of the long-term
loan portfolio, but since 1978, SDK has perforned a detailed portfolio
analysis covering loan arrears and rescheduling. The audit arrangements are
considered satisfactory, particularly as SDK has expanded its in-depth
coverage of the banks' operations.
4.33      Creditworthiness.  Conventional assessments of creditworthiness are
not appropriate in the Yugoslav banking system. The assessment of credit-
worthiness is based on the same arguments that were advanced for the previous
industrial credits, which are as follows:
(a)   Loan losses in the past have been minimal and the arrears position is
manageable;
(b)   The management of both banks observes sound banking principles in
respect of resource management and project selection;
(c)   The continued solvency of PBS and SBS is assured for the following
reasons:
(i)   The basic member banks and, in turn, their founder members have
unlimited liability for the associated banks' obligations;
(ii)    Under the existing Yugoslav economic system each bank's credit-
worthiness is closely related to that of the Yugoslav economy
itself. The possibility of a bank failure is conceivable only
with the concurrent failure of the entire economic system.
E. Perforraance Under the Previous Industrial Credit Projects
4.34      The Bank has so far provided five industrial credit lines to Yugos-
lavia and their utilization has been generally satisfactory. PBS and SBS have
received four loans amounting to a total of $134.8 million. KPB and IBT have
also received four loans amounting to a total of $175.2 million. Commitments
and disbursements under the first and second credit lines (a total of $100
million) have been completed. The Industrial Credit III (1611 YU) of $40
million was made to KBP only. The loan is fully committed and should be
disbursed before the closing date of December 31, 1982.
4.35      The fourth industrial credit project allocated $20.0 million to PBS
(Loan 1612 YU) and $20.0 million to SBS (Loan 1613 YU) 1/. Both loans, which
became effective on October 24, 1978, are fully committed and disbursements
are expected to be completed within the original schedule. However, disburse-
ments by SBS were slow initially and reached only $8.2 million as of September
30, 1981, or 56% below the appraisal estimates mainly because of difficulties
faced by investors in getting import licenses. At present, these difficulties
1/ Another $20.0 million was allocated to IBT (Loan 1614 YU)



- 33 -
seem to have been resolved since (i) the pre-appraisal mission received in
June 1981 assurances from the Macedonian authorities that Bank assisted indus-
trial projects will receive priority in the issue of import licenses and (ii)
SBS adopted a new procedure wherein application for import license is made at
the time of commencement of project processing. 1/ As a result, disbursements
have already started to speed up and reached $11.3 million as of December 31,
1981. During negotiations, assurances have been received from the Government
to ensure that import procedures will not cause a delay in the utilization of
Bank loans in future.
4.36      Under the fourth industrial credit project, PBS and SBS financed 47
sub-projects for a total investment of $198.0 million which created 8,100
jobs 2/ at an average cost per job of $27,400 in 1980 prices. At least 25% of
each bank's loan component had to be used to finance labor intensive sub-
projects, defined as those creating jobs at a cost of less than $23,000. PBS
and SBS committed 28% of the total loan amount in 18 labor intensive sub-
projects which provided 4,800 jobs at an average cost of $12,000 in 1980
prices. Twenty-seven Bank-financed sub-projects received foreign currency
co-financing totalling $28.0 million. The FRR estimated by PBS and SBS for
sub-projects financed under the fourth industrial credit project ranged from
12% to 40% with 61% of the sub-projects having FRR of 18% or above. The esti-
mated ERR for sub-projects ranged from 12% to 38% with 52% of the sub-projects
having ERR of 20% 'or above. These sub-projects are, thus, both financially
and economically viable, and their FRR and ERR are well above the minimum
agreed limit of 11%.
4.37      The fifth industrial credit project allocated $30 million to PBS and
$10 million to SBS. The loans became effective on August 17, 1981 and are
expected to be fully committed by mid 1982, long before February 3, 1984, the
last date for sub-projects submission. As of March 15, 1982, PBS committed
$25.0 million for 24 sub-projects, and SBS $7.2 million for 7 sub-projects.
These sub-projects will result in a total long-term investment of $137.2
million and provide 3,964 jobs at an average cost per job of $34,600 in 1981
prices, i.e. a 26% increase in current prices as compared with the cost per
job created under IC IV.  This increase is principally due to (i) an average
inflation of 9% on the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment; (ii) the
current high inflation rate in Yugoslavia estimated at 39% for 1981 which con-
siderably increased the local equipment cost and (iii) three capital intensive
sub-projects financed by PBS which pushed up the overall average. Eleven sub-
projects would receive foreign currency co-financing totalling $17.0 million.
The FRR and ERR of these sub-projects ranged from 12% to 32%, and 14% to 33%
respectively, with 78% of sub-projects having an FRR of 16% or above, and 74%
of the sub-projects having an ERR of 18% or above. The vast majority of
sub-projects therefore have FRR and ERR well above the minimum agreed limit of
12%.
1/ According to the earlier procedure, application was made after the approval
of sub-project by SBS.
2/ Including 1,172 jobs maintained.



- 34 -
4.38      As for the Industrial Credit IV, PBS and SBS have to use at least 25%
of the loan amount under IC V ($7.5 million and $2.5 million respectively) to
finance labor intensive sub-projects, defined as those creating jobs at a cost
of less than $31,000 equivalent.  As of March 15, 1982, the              baaks ha&
committed $10.8 million for 13 such sub-projects which will provide 1,495 new
jobs at an average cost per job of $18,600 in 1981 prices.
4.39      At the Bank's request, PBS and SBS reviewed the status of all sub-
projects which had received financial assistance under the previous industrial
credit projects (IC I, II and IV). The results indicate that 50 out of the 53
sub-projects covered by PBS's survey were operating satisfactorily at the time
of the review, while 3 faced problems requiring intensive supervision. SBS's
survey also shows that the status of operations of Bank assisted industrial
projects is generally good. In the two banks, problem projects are mostly
those facing difficulties in the import of raw materials due to foreign
exchange constraints. Efforts are being made by concerned enterprises to
obtain foreign exchange from other enterprises who are in surplus.
4.40      In addition to partly filling the foreign currency resource gap of
the recipient banks, the Bank's industrial credit projects have also been
instrumental in the institution-building of these banks. Under the previous
industrial credits, the banks have improved the quality of their sub-project
appraisal (paras 4.11 and 4.12) and initiated an annual portfolio analysis
which is covered by SDK in its audit reports. The proposed project will
emphasize further improvement in appraisal (para. 4.12) and an intensive
supervision of sub-projects (para. 4.13).
F. Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Financial Performance
4.41      PBS and SBS have prepared operational and financial projections which
are largely based on their medium-term plans for the 1981-1985 period. The
banks' plans are linked to the regional plans (Bosnia-Herzegovina and Mace-
donia), copies of which are available in the project file.
4.42      Short-term Lending Operations.  PBS and SBS project average growth of
short-term loans at about 15.4% and 14.3% p.a.; these should reach Din. 134.1
billion ($2.68 billion) 1/ and Din. 72.1 billion ($1.45 billion), respectively
in the two banks, in 1984.
4.43      Long-term Lending Operations. 2/  The projected long-term lending
operations of the two banks are summarized below:
1/ All conversions in this section assume devaluation of Dinar in line with
relative domestic inflation.
2/ Includes associated banks and their member basic banks.



- 35 -
Table 4: Yugoslavia - Summary of Projected Total Long-term Lending Operations
of PBS and SBS
(Commitments in millions of dinars)
1981      1982       1983       1984
PBS
Total                   28,700    40,000    54,100    73,000
Industry                14,800    22,400    29,800    39,400
SBS
Total                   24,700    28,800    38,200    49,900
Industry                19,800    23,000    30,600    39,900
The projected commitments are based on the planned growth of the GMP in each
region, the projected allocation of Federal and republic funds for the
1981-1985 period, and the status of preparation of various projects in each
bank's pipeline.
4.44     PBS's long-term loan commitments are expected to increase by 35.0%
p.a. during 1982-1984. Long-term loan commitments to industry would increase
by 32.6% p.a., and the industrial sector is expected to receive 54% of total
commitments. SBS's total long-term commitments are projected to increase by
31.6% p.a. during 1982-1984. Long-term loan commitments to industry would
also increase by 31.7% p.a.,and the industrial sector is expected to receive
80% of total commitments during the period.
4.45     Resource Requirements.  The total long-term resource requirements of
PBS and SBS on disbursement basis are estimated at Din. 186.52 billion ($3.96
billion) and Din. 120.01 billion ($2.56 billion) respectively in the 1981-1984
period. The resource mobilization plans of the two banks are acceptable. The
banks will continue to rely significantly on Federal and republic funds to
meet their requirements. During 1981-1984, PBS and SBS expect to meet respec-
tively 20.1% and 21.8% of their requirements from internal cash generation and
net loan recoveries, 22.4% and 31.3% from domestic and foreign lending insti-
tutions, 19.9% and 23.7% from Federal and republic funds, and 15.1% and 13.9%
from long term deposits. In accordance with their past practice, the banks
will also use a part of their short-term resources for financing long-term
loans. In view of the growing trend of short-term deposits (para 4.26) and
the adherence to liquidity requirements of the National Bank (para 4.27), the
usage of short-term funds would not pose a problem for the two banks.
4.46     The proposed Bank loans will cover respectively about 8.6% and 8.4%
of the estimated import component of industrial projects to be financed by PBS
and SBS during 1982-1984.
4.47     Financial Projections.  Projected income statements, sources and
applications of funds statements, and balance sheets of PBS and SBS are given
in Annexes 11, 12, and 13 respectively.



- 36 -
4.48     The net income of PBS is projected to decline from Din. 1,034 million
($41.5 million) in 1980 to Din. 775 million ($18.5 million) in 1981, mainly
due to an assumed lower interest spread. In subsequent years, the net income
is projected to increase at 46.2% p.a. to Din. 2,419 million ($48.4 million)
in 1984. The interest spread would be above 1.4% during 1981-84, averaging at
1.6%, which is still considered satisfactory.  Administrative expenses of PBS
would remain at about 0.8% of average total assets during the period. The net
income of SBS is projected to increase from Din. 1,177 million ($28.0 million)
in 1981 to Din. 1,904 million ($38.1 million) in 1984. The interest spread is
projected to remain constant during the period at about 1.1% and would be
sufficient to cover administrative expenses and mandatory reserves. Further-
more, projections indicate that SBS would keep its administrative expenses at
the past low level of 0.5% of average total assets during the projected
period. The net income of PBS and SBS would remain satisfactory during
1981-1984.
4.49     The projected financial position of PBS and SBS is sound.  Total
assets of PBS are projected to increase by 19.4% p.a. from Din. 244.1 billion
($5.81 billion) to Din. 415.6 billion ($8.31 billion) between 1981-1984. The
long-term loan and investment portfolio of PBS would increase at 22.1% p.a.
from Din. 115.5 billion ($2.75 billion) in 1981 to Din. 210.3 billion ($4.21
billion) in 1984, and the total long-term debt 1/ would grow at a rate of
17.0% p.a. to reach Din. 152.6 billion ($3.05 billion) in 1984. The debt/
equity ratio (including Federal and republic funds) would decline from 15.5:1
in 1980 to 11.0:1 in 1984 as sizeable reserves would build up, primarily
through the Reserve Fund which would more than double between 1981 and 1984.
Total assets of SBS are expected to increase by 19.0% p.a. from Din. 153.2
billion ($3.65 billion) in 1981 to Din. 258.3 billion ($5.17 billion) in
1984. The long-term loan and investment portfolio of SBS is projected to
increase by 21.8% p.a. from Din. 88.0 billion ($2.10 billion) to Din. 159.1
billion ($2.57 billion) and the total long-term debt by 20.2% p.a. to reach
Din. 135.3 billion ($3.18 billion) in 1984. As the equity base would
strengthen, primarily through the build up of the Reserve Fund, the debt/
equity ratio of SBS (including Federal and republic funds) would gradually
decline from 15.5:1 in 1980 to 11.0:1 in 1984.
4.50     Due to the use of some short-term funds (about 15 percent at the end
of 1980) to finance long-term loans, the current ratio of PBS and SBS is
expected to remain at between 0.7 and 0.9 respectively during 1981-1984. The
liquidity position of the two banks is considered acceptable in view of the
continuous growing trends in their short-term deposits (para 4.26), compliance
with National Bank regulations (para 4.27), and the special character of the
borrowing banks (para 4.33).
1/ Long-term borrowings and deposits.



- 37 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01     The five industrial credits made to Yugoslavia so far have aimed
primarily at (i) providing finance for the industrial development of LDR, (ii)
alleviating unemployment by earmarking 20% of IC III and IV and 25% of IC V
for labor intensive projects, (iii) encouraging joint ventures between the MDR
and the LDR and co-financing by foreign sources, and (iv) institution-
building of the four borrowing banks. The proposed IC VI which builds on the
earlier five industrial credits, will address more specifically the priorities
of industrial development for the country and the less developed republics of
Bosnia-Harzegovina and Macedonia. Its main objectives are to:
(i) assist export-oriented industries through the provision of foreign
exchange and help the borrowing banks increase their role in the
promotion of export-oriented projects;
(ii) support the Government program for energy savings and increased use
of domestic energy resources in industry;
(iii)  further strengthen institutional aspects of the borrowing banks, with
respect in particular to project evaluation and supervision; and
(iv) encourage joint ventures between different republics and provinces of
Yugoslavia.
In addition, like earlier industrial credits, the proposed project will
encourage co-financing by attracting foreign investment in sub-projects to be
assisted under the Bank loan. The above objectives are in line with the
Federal and republic plans and are consistent with the Bank's sector
objectives and lending strategy for Yugoslavia. The various project elements
which aim to meet above objectives are described below and a schedule of the
project is given in Annex 14.
5.02     Export Oriented Industries:  The export oriented manufacturing
industries will be the main beneficiary under the project. In order to ensure
the channelling of the loan proceeds to sub-projects specializing in export
based on comparative advantages in foreign markets, rather than the
sub-projects whose exports are of a "spill over" nature and/or undertaken to
meet imported input requirements (paras 2.12 and 2.18), the beneficiary
enterprises will be required to export a significant portion of their
production. Consequently, the definition of export oriented sub-projects will
include normally (i) new sub-projects whlch would export at least 50% of their
production; and (ii) balancing, modernization, and/or expansion sub-projects
which would export at least 60% of their incremental production. However,
industries in the categories of "Non-Metallic Mineral Products" and
"Manufacture of Fabricated Metal Products, Machinery and Equipment" (U.N.
International Standard Industrial Classification Nos. 36 and 38 respectively)
would have, as an exception, an export target of at least 40% for new and 50%



- 38 -
for other type of sub-projects. This exception is being allowed because
sub-projects in the above industrial categories generally manufacture
intermediate and capital goods, and have to face severe competition with
producers from developed countries having a more sophisticated international
marketing network and a well developed internal institutional infrastructure
to support exports. Nevertheless, such sub-projects would have a substantial
growth potential because of the availability of a large number of basic
domestic raw materials and lower cost of labor in Yugoslavia and would, thus,
be able to capture a bigger share of foreign market over a longer period.
5.03     The eligible export oriented sub-projects will also include those
sub-projects whose output is further processed/assembled by another project
for direct export provided such output is a clearly identifiable input of the
final export product and enables the borrowing sub-project to meet the
criteria mentioned in para 5.02 above 1/.
5.04     The eligible sub-projects would also have to meet net foreign
exchange earnings criteria to ensure their overall positive contribution to
the balance of payments situation of the country and optimum use of domestic
resources including raw materials, labor and technology. The eligible
sub-projects would recover their foreign capital cost through their net
foreign exchange earnings (export earnings minus imported inputs and interest
payments on foreign currency loans) within a four year period, starting from
six months after completion of the project. This period would be extended to
five years in case of sub-projects falling under the exception mentioned in
para 5.02 above.
5.05     As agreed during negotiations for IC V, PBS and SBS have prepared
studies of potential and prospects of export oriented manufacturing industries
in their respective regions taking into account the republic plans as well as
plans of larger kombinats and enterprises. The studies, which were conducted
in consultation with the Bank staff, have helped in the identification of a
large number of projects--35 with total foreign currency requirements of about
$80 million--which would be eligible for financing under the proposed loans.
During the project preparatory work, the Bank staff visited some of the
concerned enterprises and found their management generally knowledgeable of
foreign markets and well aware of export prospects of their products. The
enterprises had a diversified export experience both with respect to products
and markets and had established marketing channels abroad, including Western
Europe, Northern America, Asia and Africa. They had already initiated
preparatory work on the development of their proposed export oriented projects
and the preliminary data indicate that, prima facie, these projects should be
viable on the basis of competitiveness of their products in international
market.
5.06     Energy Conservation/Conversion Sub-projects and TA:  Energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects in industry would also be eligible for
financing under the loans. However, this project component will be of a
"pilot" nature because the banks and industrial enterprises lack relevant
V/ The amount of input of the borrowing sub-project in the final exports of
the exporting project should represent normally more than 50/60 percent of
the output of the borrowing sub-project.



- 39 -
experience. It will be preceeded by a program of studies and technical
assistance aiming at identifying energy conservation/conversion sub-projects
to be financed under IC VI or subsequent industrial credits (para 5.08). The
sub-projects will fall into three main categories:
(i)  Modification and retrofitting of boilers and other primary energy
producers to increase fuel efficiency, and/or to switch to
domestically produced fuels other than oil (coal, lignite and gas)
and hydro-produced electricity;
(ii)  change in production process to reduce energy consumption (in case of
sub-projects which would combine change/modernization in production
process for energy conservation, and capacity increase, these
sub-projects would be eligible for financing under the loans if
energy conservation can be identified as their main purpose); and
(iii) production of equipment and devices for energy conservation.
5.07 The criteria for eligibility of energy sub-projects will be (i) for
straight energy conservation/conversion sub-project, a maximum pay back
period 1/ of 3.5 years in the case of small sub-projects (below $300,000) and
only a satisfactory financial rate of return (para 5.23) with appropriate
adjustment for fuel prices and taxes, in the case of larger sub-projects; and
(ii) for sub-projects combining modernization and expansion and sub-projects
for the production of equipment for energy conservation, satisfactory economic
and financial rates of return (para 5.23), as for normal industrial
sub-projects. The above criteria will, however, be reviewed by the borrowing
banks and the Bank in the light of the findings of the proposed study to
assess the potential for energy conservation/conversion in selected industrial
sectors and to prepare an energy audit program as discussed in the following
paragraph.
5.08 The proposed loans will include a technical assistance component of
about $300,000 ($150,000 for each bank) 2/ to finance the foreign currency
cost involved in a program of studies to identify and develop energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects. The borrowing banks will be responsible
for the execution of the program and will also be committed to meet its local
currency cost (estimated at $40,000 equivalent for each bank) from their own
sources. Under the program, first, a preliminary study will be prepared for
Bosnia-Harzegovina and Macedonia to identify the most energy intensive
industrial sectors, to assess the potential for energy conservation/conversion
in the selected sectors (likely to include iron and steel, cement, aluminium,
chemicals, pulp and paper, glass, basic metals, metal products, machinery and
food production) and to prepare an energy audit program of a selected number
of factories which are large consumers of energy and seem to have significant
potential for energy savings. The second step will be the actual energy audit
of these factories which should result in the identification of possible
sub-projects for energy conservation/conversion and a preliminary assessment
1/    Period of time needed for the actual value of energy saved to repay the
project cost.
2/    On the basis of $11,000 per man-month plus equipment and travel costs.



- 40 -
of their viability. Finally, the borrowing banks will initiate action, in
consultation with concerned enterprises, for the preparation of detailed
feasibility studies of the identified sub-projects. The appraisal of
sub-projects, developed pursuant to feasibility studies, will be performed by
the banks with the assistance of consultants.
5.09      The terms of reference of the preliminary study (Annex 15) have been
discussed and agreed with the borrowing banks during loan negotiations. The
terms of reference of the energy audit will be prepared and agreed upon with
the Bank after the preliminary study, which will make recommendation in this
respect. The preliminary study will require about 6-8 man-weeks (one expert)
and the energy audit--covering about 15 enterprises in total--will require
about 50 man-weeks (2-3 experts) for each republic. The preliminary study and
feasibility studies of identified sub-projects will be prepared by local
consultants. In this connection, the appraisal mission had discussions with
representatives of Energoinvest, a major industrial Kombinat of Bosnia
Herzegovina. Its Institute for Thermo Technics seems to have sufficient
expertise in this area.  The energy audit, however, requires specialized
techniques and particular-knowledge of concerned industries which is not
available in Yugoslavia. It will, therefore, be assigned to foreign
consultants who will be appointed by the borrowing banks following the Bank's
guidelines for use of consultants. The technical staff of the borrowing banks
will actively participate in studies and would, thus, receive on the job
training for such work in future.
5.10      The preliminary study will commence in August 1982 and should be
completed in about two months. The energy audit will commence around January
1983 and should be completed by June 1983. The preparation of feasibility
studies for identified sub-projects will start in July 1983. The borrowing
banks will furnish draft reports of the preliminary study and energy audit to
the Bank upon completion, and finalize these reports and take subsequent
actions, keeping in view Bank's comments, if any.
5.11      Institution-Building of Borrowing Banks;  The proposed project will
strengthen the promotional role of PBS and SBS in the identification and
development of viable export projects, and, thus, will have demonstrative
effects for implementation of the Plan objectives for export-orientation in
industry. As mentioned in para 5.05, the banks have already identified a
large number of export oriented projects as a result of their studies. The
banks will continue their efforts to identify more projects as well as to
further develop, together with concerned enterprises, projects already
identified. In addition, the proposed technical assistance will support the
banks' program of studies for the identification and development of energy
conservation/conversion projects. As regards the project appraisal work, PBS
and SBS have made significant progress (paras 4.11-4.12) but there is a need
for further improvement, particularly in the marketing and economic evaluation
of sub-projects. The proposed project will assist the banks in this respect
through the review of and advice on the appraisal of individual sub-projects
to be financed under the Bank loan. The sub-project supervision work of the
two banks needs to be more intensive and better planned (para 4.13). The



- 41 -
introduction of new supervision system in 1982 and visits of the Bank's
regular supervision missions and monitoring on the performance of sub-projects
(para 5.20) would make the banks' role more effective in this area.
5.12     Encouragement of Joint Ventures:  The Government is encouraging joint
ventures between different republics and provinces for the establishment of
industrial projects in LDR. In particular, joint ventures between MDR and LDR
enterprises will result in the transfer of technical know-how and management
experience from the former to the latter and in better utilization of various
indigenous raw materials available in LDR. The proposed project will
encourage such joint ventures through offering foreign currency sub-loans with
a prolonged grace period (para 5.18).
B. Use of Loan Proceeds
5.13     The proposed two loans totalling $66 million will be used for
sub-project financing except for a small amount of about $300,000 provided for
the technical assistance and the capitalized front end fee of $975,370. Loans
will be shared equally by the two banks. As mentioned earlier, the main
beneficiary under the loans would be export oriented sub-projects and, on the
basis of the preliminary pipeline, these are likely to be for the manufacture
of furniture, textiles, readymade garments, leather products, sports goods,
ceramic tiles, prefabricated houses, and engineering goods. The loans would
also be available for financing energy conservation/converstion sub-projects
to be identified under the program of studies described in para 5.08.
5.14     The sub-loan proceeds will be used, together with other sources, to
finance normally the foreign exchange cost of fixed assets and permanent
working capital. The proposed technical assistance component of $300,000
($150,000 for each bank) would cover the services of foreign consultants to be
engaged for the energy audit (para 5.09).
5.15     The proposed loans are estimated to cover only 2% of the borrowing
banks' industrial lending program for mid-1982 to end-1984 and would meet
about 10% of the total foreign currency requirements of the banks for
financing the industrial sector during the period. On the basis of past
experience, it is-estimated that a further $40 million in foreign exchange
co-financing will be attracted in conjunction with Bank financed
sub-projects. The proposed final date of sub-projects submission under the
loans is December 31, 1984 and the closing date is December 31, 1987.
C. Main Features of the Loan
5.16     Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk:  As discussed in paras
3.17-3.19, the proposed loans will be onlent by the borrowing banks to
sub-borrowers after adding a minimum spread of 1.25% on the Bank's applicable
interest rate. The foreign exchange risk on proposed loans will be
transferred to sub-borrowers. As regards long-term loans from banks' own
local currency resources for sub-projects receiving IBRD funds, minimum
interest rate will be increased from 10% to 15%. The above interest rates
will be reviewed annually during the commitment period of proposed loans. The



- 42 -
front end fee will be transferred by the banks to individual sub-borrowers
under the loans.
5.17     Sub-loan and Sub-project Size:  The maximum sub-loan amount to be
financed under the proposed Bank loans will be $5 million; this compares with
a limit of $4 million under IC V and takes into account the expected increases
in equipment costs in dollar terms due to inflation. There will be no limit
on the maximum size of sub-projects which may need to be fairly large to
achieve economies of scale and be competitive internationally. However, a
review of the banks' preliminary pipeline of sub-projects indicates that
almost all sub-projects would be within the maximum limit allowed under
IC V 1/ and adjusted for inflation.
5.18     Loan and Sub-loan Maturities:  The proposed loans will be made on the
Bank's normal terms and conditions as applicable to DFC loans, including the
standard commitment charge, with repayment schedules reflecting the composite
repayments of sub-loans. The repayment period of individual sub-loans will
not exceed 15 years including a maximum grace period of three years. As an
incentive for (i) joint ventures with enterprises in other republics and (ii)
energy conservation/conversion sub-projects, the maximum grace period will be
extended up to five years. The $300,000 technical assistance component will
be repayable by the banks over 15 years including two years of grace, starting
from the date of signing of the loan agreements.
5.19     Free Limit:  The free limit for sub-loans under the proposed loans
will remain the same as under IC V, i.e. $2 million for individual sub-loans
and 60% of the total loan amount for each bank as an aggregate free limit. In
addition, the first five sub-loans in the export oriented category and the
first three sub-loans in the energy saving category will be treated as above
the free limit. As the sub-projects will be of a specialized nature, this
will give an opportunity to the Bank to make an indepth review of all
appraisal reports on the first few sub-projects prepared by the banks and to
provide them advice and guidance at an early stage, if necessary. It is
expected that the above arrangement would ensure the Bank's review of about
60% of the loan amount and about 40% of sub-projects.
5.20     Justification and Monitoring of Exports:  All sub-loan applications
whether above or below the free limit will provide sufficient justification
for the foreign exchange earning capability and export market viability of the
proposed export oriented sub-projects. This would include, inter alia, the
following information:
(i)    Detailed calculations of net foriegn exchange earnings annually for a
period of five years showing breakdown of income and cost in foreign
and local currencies;
(ii)    past export performance in case of balancing, modernization and/or
expansion sub-projects;
(iii)   marketing channels abroad and purchase orders received or contracts
made on long-term basis, if any;
1/  IC V had a maximum cost limit of $15 million for regular sub-projects, $20
million for joint ventures and no limit for labor intensive sub-projects.



- 43 -
(iv)    steps taken by sponsors to secure an export market;
(v)    detailed market analysis with statistics of demand, supply, and
imports in target markets;
(vi)    justification of price/quality competitiveness of products to be
manufactured by the enterprises; and
(vii)   eligibility to the Government's export incentives and details thereof.
5.21     The borrowing banks will closely supervise and monitor the export
performance of beneficiary enterprises and the Bank will be provided, on a
six-monthly basis, information on (i) production, (ii) exports, (iii) reasons
for shortfalls, if any, in meeting export targets and (iv) action being
taken/proposed to be taken by the banks and/or enterprises to improve export
performance in deficient cases. These semi-annual reports will be provided at
least until the sub-project has recovered its foreign capital cost and,
thereafter, only annual reports will be provided until the sub-loan is fully
repaid.
5.22     Remedies:  The sub-loan agreements between the borrowing banks and
their sub-borrowers will provide that enterprises will commit themselves to
meet the agreed export targets. If an enterprise fails to meet the target in
any given year, the borrowing bank will make an indepth review of the whole
situation and agree with the enterprise on a plan of action to meet the
export target in future. If the review shows that the shortfall was due to
negligence or insufficient efforts by the enterprise, the borrowing bank will
take necessary measures against the enterprise including one or more of the
following: (i) a penalty interest of up to 4% per annum, (ii) restrictions on
future credits (both long-term and short-term) to the enterprise, or (iii)
call back of sub-loan or shortening of sub-loan maturities. The above
measures would be included in the sub-loan agreement.
5.23     Economic and Financial Evaluation:  The borrowing banks will prepare
a satisfactory economic and financial evaluation of sub-projects including the
calculations of ERR and FRR; these calculations will not be necessary for some
of the energy saving sub-projects as mentioned in para 5.07 above. It was
stipulated in IC V that the minimum ERR and FRR of sub-projects will be 12%.
Under the proposed IC VI, the minimum ERR will be maintained at 12%; however,
the minimum FRR will be increased in line with long-term interest rates in
Yugoslavia (para 3.16).   Sub-projects should be financially viable even when
financed by loans from specially earmarked funds at subsidized interest
rates. The sub-projects will, therefore, have a minimum FRR which will be not
less than the borrowing banks' interest rates on long term loans made from
their own local currency resources at the time of approval of a sub-project
(minimum of 15%).
5.24     Procurement and Disbursements:  The procurement procedures will be
consistent with those provided under IC III, IV and V. ICB procedures will be
normally required for contracts estimated to exceed $2 million equivalent. If
ICB is followed, and a Yugoslav supplier wins the bid, the ex-factory cost of
these goods will be eligible for financing with Bank funds; this situation is
expected to arise only in rare instances. Exceptions for dispensation from,



- 44 -
or modification of ICB for special reasons (e.g. standardization of
equipment), would require justification by the sub-borrower, and prior
approval by the lending institutions and the Bank.
5.25      Responsibility for ICB for contracts between $2-5 million will be
delegated to the borrowing banks to give these institutions experience in this
field, and avoid delays in procurement for such smaller contracts. For these
contracts, the Bank would review the bid evaluation report, award and final
contract prior to the first withdrawal. The Bank will undertake a full
review, prior to contract award, of all procurement documents and ICB
procedures for contracts expected to exceed $5 million equivalent. Based on
past experience, only a few sub-projects may have individual contracts
exceeding $2 million. The Bank has been generally satisfied with procurement
documents and ICB procedures.  Procurement for contracts below $2 million will
continue to be governed by Yugoslav laws, which provide strict regulations to
ensure competitive bidding for both domestic and foreign procurement, but
require less extensive advertising than ICB.
5.26      Disbursement of funds by the Bank will be done against evidence of
expenditures with supporting documents. The estimated disbursement schedule
of the loans is given in Annex 16. This is based on actual disbursement
profiles of industrial credit projects in Yugoslavia between 1973-1980 with
adjustments for (i) the particular experience with PBS and SBS, (ii) possible
improvements in SBS disbursements in future (para 4.35), and (iii) the fact
that the proposed project is of a specialized nature which may result in
somewhat slower loan commitments and disbursements. In the past,
disbursements on industrial credit projects have been much faster than the
average for Bank projects in Yugoslavia, and also slightly faster than
standard disbursement profiles for Bank industrial credits.
5.27      Reporting:  The borrowing banks will submit to the Bank quarterly,
semi-annual, and annual reports, as has been the case under the previous
industrial credits. These reports will include, inter alia, a summary of
operations, progress on the utilization of loan, export performance of
assisted enterprises (para 5.21), and annual reports and audits. The banks
will also submit a report to the Bank upon the completion of the project.
5.28      Project Benefits and Risks:  Yugoslavia is facing a serious balance
of payment problem. The proposed project will have demonstrative effects for
implementation of the Plan objectives for export-orientation in industry.  It
will also constribute to instituion-building in the borrowing banks. The
balancing, modernization and expansion of existing industries under the
project would result in better utilization of existing facilities and creation
of economies of scale which are a prerequisite for successful industrial
exports. Promotion of industrial sub-projects which would specialize in
exports on the basis of their comparative advantages in foreign markets, will
result in improved use of domestic resources, including labor, better
utilization of existing capacities, productivity increases and creation of
economies of scale and, in turn, will contribute to improve the industrial
structure in the two regions concerned, and, in Yugoslavia as a whole, by
stimulating joint ventures (para 2.11). The project would also contribute to



- 45 -
the correction of development disparities among regions in Yugoslavia. The
proposed loan is estimated to finance about 30 sub-projects with total
investment of about $300 million equivalent. The aggregate net foreign
exchange earnings of these sub-projects would be about $60 million per annum
upon the commencement of their normal commercial operations. The aggregate
direct employment creation should be in the range of 6-8,000 jobs.
5.29     The technical assistance component in the project would help in the
identification and development of energy conservation/conversion sub-projects,
some of which may be financed under the proposed loan. Although the number of
these sub-projects would be small and their impact limited, they would
constitute a pilot project which may lead to a more extensive program of
energy saving in the industrial sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia and
also in other regions of Yugoslavia in future. This would help to reduce oil
imports which are causing a major constraint on the balance of payment
situation of Yugoslavia. On the whole, the indirect benefits of the loan in
terms of demonstrative effects and institution-building would be as important
as its direct benefits.
5.30     The risks under the proposed project mainly relate to meeting the
export targets by beneficiary enterprises. The actual exports of sub-projects
may fall short of targets for two main reasons. First, the conditions in
export markets may change to the disadvantage of Yugoslav producers due to
development of more economical substitutes, enhanced competition from other
developing countries, or creation of production capacity within the importing
countries. Second, beneficiary enterprises may concentrate on the domestic
market, which has been generally more profitable due to protection policies,
and make only "spill-over" exports in line with their past practice.
Provisions have been made to minimize these risks through (i) a careful and
indepth evaluation of marketing viability and prospects of all export oriented
sub-project by the borrowing banks and their subsequent review by the Bank
staff before the sub-project approval even in free limit cases (para 5.20);
(ii) close supervision and monitoring of export performance of assisted
enterprises by borrowing banks and submission of periodical information to the
Bank in this regard (para 5.21); and (iii) exercise of remedies on beneficiary
enterprises which fail to meet the export target due to negligence or
insufficient efforts (para 5.22). It is expected that the above arrangements,
as well as the new policy framework to encourage exports, would help to keep
the risk within acceptable limits.



- 46 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The Bank has reached agreement with the Government and the borrowing
banks, viz. PBS and SBS on making two loans totalling $66 million ($33 million
for each bank), including capitalized front end fee. The loans will include a
technical assistance component of about $300,000 ($150,000 for each bank) to
assist in a program of studies to identify and develop energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects in industry (para 5.08). Also,
agreements and understandings have been reached on the following points:
(a)  Definition of export oriented sub-projects:  (i) Eligible
sub-projects will export directly or indirectly at least 50% of
production, if new, and at least 60% of incremental production if
balancing, modernization, and/or expansion of existing facilities;
(ii) as an exception, above export targets will be reduced to 40% and
50% respectively for sub-projects manufacturing non-metallic mineral
products and engineering industry products; and (iii) sub-projects
will meet a net foreign exchange earning criteria (paras 5.02 to
5.04);
(b)  all sub-loan applications either above or below the free limit will
provide sufficient justification for the foreign exchange earnings
capability and export market viability of proposed sub-projects (para
5.20);
(c)  borrowing banks will closely supervise and monitor the export
performance of beneficiary enterprises and will report periodically
to the Bank on this aspect (para 5.21);
(d)  borrowing banks will include remedies in sub-loan agreements to be
used if sub-borrowers fail to meet export targets due to negligence
or insufficient efforts (para 5.22);
(e)  borrowing banks will undertake a program of studies to identify and
develop energy conservation/conversion sub-projects in industry which
will include (i) a preliminary study to be prepared by local
consultants, (ii) an energy audit of enterprises, selected after the
study, to be performed by foreign experts under the Bank's technical
assistance and to be completed by June 30, 1983, and (iii)
feasibility studies of sub-projects, identified as a result of energy
audit, to be performed by local consultants beginning July 1983
(paras 5.08-5.10);
(f)  borrowing banks will be committed to meet the local currency cost of
the above program from their own sources (para 5.08);
(g)  the terms of reference of the preliminary study, and the timing of
study are satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank and borrowing banks
(para 5.09);
(h)  borrowing banks will engage by July 31, 1982 Energoinvest or some
other suitable consulting firm, acceptable to the Bank, to carry out
the preliminary study by October 1982 (paras. 5.09 and 5.10);



- 47 -
(i) borrowing banks will appoint foreign consultants for the energy audit
following the BpnLr's guidelinos on the use of consultants. furnish
draft reports of the preliminary study and energy audit to the bank
upon completion, and finalize these reports and take subsequent
actions keeping in view the Bank's comments, if ainy (paras 5.09-,.10);
(j) terms of reference of the energy audit will be agreed with the Bank
after the completion of preliminary study which will make
recommendations in this respect (para 5.09);
(k) criteria of financing energy conservation/conversion sub-projects
will be as described in para 5.07 above, but they can be revised by
the borrowing banks with prior approval of the Bank, if considered
necessary in the light of the findings of the preliminary study (para
5.07);
(1) the technical staff of borrowing banks will be actively involved in
the preliminary study, and preparation of feasibility reports for
training purposes (para 5.09);
(m)  interest rate:  (i) domestic resources, other than specially
earmarked as development funds, lent to sub-projects receiving IBRD
funds will carry a minimum interest rate of 15%, (ii) the onlending
rate of the Bank loan will be at least 1.25% above the Bank's
interest rate at the time of loan approval and sub-borrowers will
carry the foreign exchange risk, and (iii) interest rates will be
reviewed annually during the commitment period of the loan, as
provided for under IC V (paras 3.17 to 3.19);
(n) borrowing banks will agree on loan and sub-loan features including
(i) sub-loan size not exceeding $5 million (para 5.19), (ii) final
amortization schedule on the basis of aggregate amortization
schedules with a maximum period of 15 years including a grace period
of up to three years for individual sub-loans, except for joint
ventures and energy saving sub-projects which will be allowed a grace
period of up to five years (para 5.18), (iii) a free limit of $2
million for individual sub-loans and 60% of the total loan amount as
aggregate free limit (para 5.19), and (iv) sub-projects to have an
ERR of not less than 12% and FRR should be not less than the banks'
interest rate on long-term local currency loans made from their own
resources (para 5.23);
(o) any individual contract for the procurement of imported goods in
excess of $2 million equivalent will be governed by the Bank's ICB
procedures, unless an alternative procedure is justified to the
Bank's satisfaction (para 5.24);
(p) borrowing banks will take measures to protect themselves against the
foreign exchange risk (para 4.24);
(q) borrowing banks will further improve the quality of their appraisal
work, particularly the market and economic evaluation and estimates



- 48 -
of capital cost of sub-projects (para 4.12), and they will use the
services of local consultants in the appraisal of energy
conservation/conversion sub-projects, to the extent such expertise is
not available within the banks (para 5.08);
(r) the new project supervision system will be applied to the
Bank-financed sub-projects by December 31, 1982 and the borrowing
banks will endeavor to apply the same or a similar system for all
other industrial projects on their portfolio;
(s) the Government will take steps to ensure priority to the issue of
import licenses for sub-projects appraised and proposed to be
financed by the borrowing banks under the Bank loans (para 4.35); and
(t) the final date for the submission of sub-projects to the Bank will be
December 31, 1984 and the closing date will be December 31, 1987
(para 5.15).
6.02 The proposed project is suitable for two Bank loans totalling $66
million on the terms and conditions outlined above.



- 49 -                        Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA
TNDUSTRIAL CREDIT VI
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PERFORMANCE AND POTENTIAL I/
1.       In the period 1953-65, Yugoslavia's total commodity exports increased
by 11.4 percent p.a. in real terms compared with 6.0 percent for world
exports, implying a strong penetration in world markets. By contrast, the
growth of Yugoslav exports slackened to 6.4 percent during 1965-72 and 3.8
percent during 1973-80 while the growth of world exports was 8.4 percent and
6.0 percent in the respective periods. In the latter period (1973-80) the
growth of commodity exports from non-oil exporting developing countries (7
percent p.a.) was also much higher than that of Yugoslav exports. On the
positive side, however, there has been in the past two decades a sustained
change in the composition of Yugoslavia's total commodity exports from primary
commodities to manufactures. The share of manufactures in commodity exports
increased from 43 percent in 1963 to 55 percent in 1970 and nearly 70 percent
in 1980.
2.       A detailed analysis of market performance of Yugoslavia and the
combined performances of a reference group of newly industrialized countries
(NIC) 2/ representative of Yugoslavia's competitors for the period 1963-79 in
the EEC and all other markets reveals the following. Taking into account the
overall growth of a given commodity into the importing countries and other
factors such as the commodity composition and competitive effects, it appears
that the modest performance of Yugoslavia's exports in the 1970s was largely
attributable to the relative decline in exports of primary metals and
minerals, with the exception of the once important manufacturing category of
ships and boats. On the other hand, Yugoslavia's performance for manufactures
exports remained strong through the 1970s, exceeding the growth of the EEC
market 3/ and all other markets and arising mainly from the competitive
strength of its products. However, Yugoslavia's performance in manufactures
was significantly below that of NICs, suggesting that a greater expansion of
Yugoslavia's manufactures export to both developed and developing countries
could have been possible in the 1970s. The share of Yugoslav manufactures
export in trade among developing countries has been declining since 1963,
although they regained some momentum in the second half of the 1970s. While
Yugoslavia has remained in the ten top exporters of manufactures among
developing countries, it went down from the first place in 1963 to the fifth
in 1977 for capital goods, and from the fourth to the eighth for all
manufactures.
3.       An analysis of the commodity structure of industrial exports and
market growth in importing countries reveals the trends in Yugoslavia's
experience and comparative advantages. Exports of processed wood (wood
shaped), furniture and components, footwear and leather products, metal
1/  The analysis below is partly based on the IBRD report - Yugoslavia:
Export Performance and Policies - No. 2372 YU, 1980.
2/  Brazil, Greece, Turkey, Hong Kong, Israel, Korea, Mexico, Portugal,
Singapore and Spain.
3/  The elasticity of Yugoslav manufactures exports to economic growth in EEC
was over 2.



- 50 -                          Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
manufactures, non-electric machines, machinery, and heavy eqlipment for
mining, construction and industries, and chemicals were already firmly
established in the sixties, particularly in the developed couintries markets,
and their contribution to overall export growth has been rising since then.
The 1970s saw the emergence of dynamic sectors, such as electric power
machines, electric machinery, appliances and distribution equipment, wood and
cork manufactures, including wooden building materials, prefabricated parts
and structures, processed non-metallic minerals, transport equipment,
aluminium, petroleum products, metal working machinery. These sectors have
been to a large extent oriented towards centrally planned economies (CPE)
markets but they have had also successful penetration in developed countries
(DC) markets, often because of joint ventures and various forms of cooperation
with foreign firms. These commodity performances are confirmed when account
is taken of market growth in importing countries and relative performance of
the group of NICs.
4.        Based on interviews of enterprises and trading organizations, there
are also new prospects in non ferrous metals (lead, zinc, nickel, aluminum)
and processed products, and chemicals like fertilizers, synthetic materials,
synthetic fibers and pharmaceutical products. Although textile exports have
been levelling out, there is a potential in cotton yarn and fabrics, knitted
apparel and clothing. Most of these export lines are based on domestic raw
materials, with the exception of textiles, apparel and clothing. Finally,
Yugoslavia is showing increasing expertise for export of engineering and
turn-key industrial projects and obtaining contracts for construction and
public works, particularly in oil exporting developing countries.
5.       Comparing its specialization indices with those of developed and
developing countries, respectively, it appears that Yugoslavia has become
substantially more specialized than the developed countries as a group in
sectors like electric power machines, electrical distribution equipment, ships
and boats, furniture, footwear, aluminum and, to a lesser extent, textiles and
clothing. Specialization indices of Yugoslavia in these sectors are also
higher than the average indices of the LDCs. Apart from these selected
sectors, however, a striking aspect of Yugoslav industrial exports is their
diversification. Comparisons with exports of the group of newly
industrialized countries show that for the year 1976, the degree of
diversification of Yugoslav exports was exceeded only by Spain. From 1968 to
1976 diversification of Yugoslav exports kept widening, while export
diversification of developed countries like US, Japan and West Germany was
decreasing. Yugoslavia's exports diversification has been the outcome of the
strategy adopted in the 1950s, which aimed at reducing the country's
dependence on a limited range of products and markets, and was subsequently
encouraged by the system of rights to foreign exchange for exporting
enterprises.
6.       Yugoslavia's experience of operating in four disparate sets of
markets gives it strength for future market penetration and at the same time
relative flexibility in case of problems of market access. Despite
Yugoslavia's apparent low performance in DCs' markets in the 1970s, prospects
for increasing its industrial exports in these markets, particularly in the
EEC, are favorable. In the 1970s, Yugoslavia demonstrated strength in a
variety of manufactures in EEC markets. Among the EEC countries the main
clients for Yugoslavia's exports are Italy (9.3 percent of total exports in



- 51 -                          Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
1980), West Germany, France and the Netherlands, particularly for processed
wood, metal products, machinery, electrical machinery and apparatus, transport
equipment and parts, copper products, cellulose and processed chemicals and
cotton fabrics. Other important DCs' markets include the US (4.4 percent of
total exports in 1980), Austria and Greece, particularly for ferrous metals,
copper products, electrical equipment, furniture, clothing and footwear. The
Bank 1/ projects world exports to increase by 3.8 percent annually during
1981-85 under the less favorable assumptions, with an increasing share of
manufactures and a growing penetration of manufactures export from developing
countries. The latter would increase by 5.1 percent annually, even under
assumptions of increased protectionism in the DCs, with a substantially higher
rate for exports of the middle income countries. Yugoslavia's exports to EEC
should be facilitated by the new cooperation agreement (Annex 2), although it
does not guarantee Yugoslavia's industrial exports an easy access. There will
be continuing competition from newly industrialized countries and from several
developing countries which have concluded similar preferential agreements with
the EEC. Yugoslavia's specific advantages should derive from its location and
experience in industrial cooperation agreements with European firms, its
resource base, its skill levels, and its craft traditions, particularly in
engineering, metal working and electrical industries, combining relatively
cheap labor, availability of domestic raw materials and well developed local
technology.
7.        The developing countries have been providing expanding markets f(r
Yugoslav exports throughout the 1970s, with their share in total exports
increasing from 16 percent in 1970 to 18 percent in 1980. This expansion was
accompanied by a diversification of markets and an export strategy towards
developing countries is fully warranted. Yugoslavia has registered very good
performance in oil exporting country markets, namely Iraq, Libya, Nigeria and
Iran, particularly for capital goods, technology and consultancy services as
well as a variety of consumer goods. Yugoslav exports (excluding services) to
this group of countries increased from $52 million in 1970 to more than $700
million in 1980. Among other developing countries Yugoslavia's main clients
are the Mediterranean countries, particularly Turkey, Egypt and Algeria, and
China. The Bank anticipates that trade among developing countries will grow
much faster than world trade 2/ and there is certainly ample room for
Yugoslavia's exports given its capacity and its association with the
non-aligned movement. However, in the developing countries as in the oil
exporting countries markets, Yugoslavia will face tough competition in many of
its specialities both from the NICs to which it already lost considerable
ground, and from a number of developing countries which are gaining experience
and advantages, especially in labor intensive manufacturing. An important
determinant of Yugoslavia's success on developing markets will be its ability
to expand the provision of export credit.
1/ World Development Report, 1981
2/ The CPEs have become the most important market for Yugoslavia industrial
exports, with a share of 45 percent in 1980. With this group of markets
Yugoslavia has established advantages in capital goods, metals and
minerals, metal products, transport equipment and a large variety of
consumer products.  In future trade with the CPEs, these advantages are
likely to be maintained.



- 52 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
8.       In conclusion, Yugoslavia has the capacity to expand its industrial
exports at the annual rate of 8 percent projected in the Federal Plan for
1981-85, in terms of production capability and experience, comparative
advantages and external demand. The selected priority sectors for export have
good prospects with the possible exception of textiles and clothing where
international competition is severe. Yugoslavia's target for the growth (17
percent annually in real terms) of its exports to the developing countries is
certainly ambitious, but lower achievements could be compensated for by an
expansion greater than planned (5.5 percent annually) in the DCs' and CPEs'
markets. Much will depend on the policies and institutional environment to
restrain domestic demand, reorient resources towards exports and specialize in
competitive areas at the least domestic resource cost.
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



-53 -                        Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT VI
EXPORT INCENTIVE SYSTEM
1.     Yugoslavia's current system of export incentives is articulated in
three basic laws passed in 1977 and reflects the general principles of self
management. The system includes rights to foreign exchange receipts, duty
drawbacks, fiscal incentives, bonuses on exports and bilateral trading
agreements. Export credit at subsidized terms is also available to exporters.
Rights to Foreign Exchange
2.     Under the new foreign exchange system introduced in 1977, foreign
exchange receipts are the property of the enterprises which contribute to
their earning, as established by self-management agreements between
participating enterprises through consultative organizations, called
communities of interest for foreign economic relations (CIFER). This right
appears to be an important stimulus to export for industrial enterprises.
Exporting enterprises are entitled to retain the amount of foreign exchange
earnings they need to cover their imports. Of the rest, they have to sell a
certain amount to the National Bank at the official rate and can sell out the
balance to importing enterprises at a negotiated rate on the basis of
pre-established agreements. There are also agreements for the sharing of
foreign exchange earnings with intermediate producers which contribute to
exports without realizing foreign exchange earnings directly. In a situation
of foreign exchange shortage, there are obvious difficulties in making this
mechanism the sole source of foreign exchange for importers and the regional
CIFER can make foreign exchange allocations to eligible importers in priority
sectors, out of non committed funds. The CIFER also administer the funds for
the importation of capital goods and monitor external borrowing rights. This
system has been very effective in stimulating enterprises to export, at least
to the extent needed to meet their import requirements. The costs, however,
are considerable in terms of allocative efficiency and its complexity is far
in excess of the administrative capabilities of the CIFER.
Duty Refunds, Bonuses and Fiscal Incentives
3.     The duty refund scheme is intended to reimburse exporting enterprises
for the implicit burden of taxation on imported inputs. The funds for
financing these refunds, as well as for direct export subsidies, come from
earmarked portions of custom duties collected by the Federal Secretariat for
Finance. In recent years the earmarked portion of custom duties available to
the CIFER for export stimulation has been about 50 percent of total custom
receipts. Although the system of duty refund is rather complex and difficult
to describe, there appears to be three cases: i) raw materials and other
inputs are imported duty free for an amount equivalent to the enterprise
exports; ii) more frequently duties paid on imported inputs and services
directly related to exports are fully or partly refunded (the percentages of
refund vary selectively from one sector to the other and are computed on the
basis of input-output tables); and iii) in some cases, raw materials and
intermediate goods to be processed for export are treated as temporary
imports, completely free of import duties.



- 54 -                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
4.       In addition to the duty refund scheme, there are selective direct
subsidies to foster exports in certain sectors in the form of cash bonuses.
Regional CIFER have latitude to determine the sectors to be favored and the
rate of bonuses. Certain principles of selective export promotion are,
however, laid down at the Federal level through the annual Orders on Joint
Foreign Exchange Policy. According to the discussions mission members had
with a number of enterprises, it seems the rates of bonuses varied from zero
to 25 percent of the export values in the first half of 1981 (11 to 23% for
carpets, textiles and ready made clothes; 12 to 15% on footwear; 10 to 14% on
buses; 16% on furniture; 10% on certain metal parts for automobiles). The
basis for determination of the rates is not very clear. Account is taken of
the sub-sectoral priorities for export established at the Federal and regional
levels, of the differences between export prices and prices on the domestic
market and of the amount of taxes paid in importing countries. In a number of
cases, it appeared that bonuses allowed the enterprises to make up for the
difference between export prices and prices on the domestic market. Finally,
on the fiscal side, exporting enterprises are exempted from income tax on
their earnings from exports. The basis of calculation of earnings from
exports is not known, nor the treatment of the many enterprises which are
exporting at a loss, just to cover their foreign exchange needs, and make
profits on their sales on the domestic market.
Trade Agreements
5.       Yugoslavia has entered into a number of bilateral clearing
arrangements, mainly with COMECON and other countries with non-convertible
currencies. These arrangements provide for the development of trade in
specific commodities and aim at achieving a current account balance on a
country by country basis. Most of them provide for settlement in convertible
currency of balances outstanding at the end of specified periods. Until the
1970s wide differentials existed in both export and import unit values for
Yugoslavia's trade with COMECON countries as compared with the West.
Yugoslavia import underpayments (as compared to prices for equivalent
commodities imported from the West) were larger, however, than its export
undervalues, giving Yugoslavia an advantage in its trade with the East. The
situation has changed since restrictions on COMECON exports to the West were
reduced.
6.       In 1980, Yugoslavia concluded a cooperation agreement with the EEC,
which provided Yugoslavia with preferential areas to the EEC market for its
industrial products, as well as improved access for certain agricultural
commodities. Some 70 percent of Yugoslavia's industrial products can be
admitted duty free without limit. However, twenty nine sensitive products in
which Yugoslavia is considered very competitive will continue to be subject to
ceilings. These include such items as wood products, shoes, furniture,
mineral and other fertilizers, and rubber tires. Various forms of
restrictions, including gradual tariff dismantling and voluntary restraints
will also subsist for non ferrous metals and textile products. Finally,
Yugoslavia is making trade with more than 100 countries under a number of
commercial and cooperation agreements, some providing for preferential
treatment.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Future Developments
7.     The Federal Plan for 1981-85 and the Resolutions of the Federal
Assembly for 1981 include a number of policy statements regarding the trade
and incentive system, including the reintroduction of a centralized foreign
exchange market and the revision of the export incentive system. The Federal
CIFER and several government bodies have conducted a review of the various
export incentives for several months. Draft proposals have been widely
discussed among the regional CIFER, Chambers of Economy, banks and the various
associations concerned. They should be approved by the Federal Assembly and
made effective in early 1982. It is expected that the existing incentives -
duty refunds, bonuses and tax exemptions - will be maintained in the main.
However, export specialization will be encouraged by increasing the rate of
bonuses in proportion to the percentage of exports in total production for a
given enterprise. Bonuses will also vary in accordance with the destination
of exports in order to foster exports to certain countries, in particular
developing countries, and take into account market circumstances and levels of
protection in importing countries. The processing of domestic raw materials
for export of manufactures and exports with a low import content will be
encouraged by introducing incentives relating to export value added (net
foreign exchange earnings). At the same time provisions will be made for easy
access to needed imported inputs for exporters. To finance increased
incentives the share of earmarked tax revenues will be raised. Finally, it is
proposed that exporting enterprises would keep only the amount of foreign
exchange proceeds needed for their imports and the rest would be channeled for
imports through the National Bank and the commercial banks.
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



- 56 -
Annex 3
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Growth in Industrial Production, 1952-80
1952-60      1960-65      1965-70      1970-75      1975-80
-'ectric Energy                                   13.8         12.3          9.9          7.6          8.6
qxtraction of Coal                                 6.6          3.6         -3.0          3.4          4.0
~oal Processing                                     --         12.8          0.9          0.4          7.6
_xtraction of Crude Petroleum & Gas               24.0         20.0          9.2          5.9           2.8
-rude Petroleum Refining                          13.4         17.6         14.3          9.4           8.6
Iron Ore Mining                                   14.1          4.2          5.5          6.5         -2.1
ron and Steel                                     17.2          6.5          5.7          7.0          5.3
Non-ferrous Ore Mining                             4.1          9.7          4.3          5.9           1.4
Non-ferrous Metal                                  8.5          9.2          6.7         10.0           1.4
Processing of Non-ferrous Metals                    --         12.9          5.3           7.3          7.9
Non-metallic Mineral Ore                           8.7          8.9          4.3         -1.1          -0.3
'.anufacture of Non-metallic Mineral              20.0         18.1          6.9          8.4           6.1
Metal Fabrication                                 14.7          9.2          5.8           6.9          7.6
MAachinery, non-electrical                        13.8         11.2          4.3         10.3           9.5
Transport Equipment                                 --          9.0          5.5          9.4           8.3
Shipbuilding                                        --         10.7         11.3          4.9         -4.2
Electrical Machinery                              21.0         13.1          9.2          8.8          8.0
MVanufacture of Chemicals                         17.5         21.0          7.4          8.5           8.8
Processing of Chemicals                           18.0         15.0         14.0          15.1         11.2
Extraction of Stone and Sand                      17.3         10.5          6.0          9.5           7.8
Building Materials                                 9.4          7.1          6.3          8.7           6.7
Saw-Mills and Wood Board                           3.4          7.6          2.5          4.7           4.5
Furniture and Fixtures                            12.0         14.4          3.6           8.8          5.9
Paper                                             14.6         19.3          7.5           7.6          7.6
Yarns and Fabrics                                 10.0          8.6          2.3          3.5          4.6
Finished Textile Products                         11.5         16.3          5.9         11.5           5.4
Leather and Fur                                    9.0          7.2          1.4          6.7           3.4
Footwear and Other Leather Products               13.3         14.8          1.4          9.2           4.6
Rubber                                            13.0         12.7          7.2           9.0          9.8
Food Processing                                   15.3         12.7          3.2           6.9          6.6
Beverages                                         14.8         10.4         13.2          10.9          8.8
Animal Feed                                         --           --         20.0           5.0          9.1
Tobacco                                            6.2          8.5         -1.8           5.8          4.5
Printing and Publishing                           14.3          9.9          6.3          4.8           5.6
Other                                               --         19.1          7.0          11.4          6.4
TOTAL             12.7         10.9           5.4          7.9          6.8
-- Base year too small to make growth rates meaningful
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia and Plan Review Report.



Annex 4
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Structure and Growth of Industrial Production, 1952-80
Percent Share                       Annual Average Growth Rate
1952    1960    1970    1980         1952-60    1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
Energy                           15.8    13.2    12.4    11.9            10.1         7.4        6.6           7.3
Consumer Goods                   24.4    23.6    24.1    24.0            12.1         8.3        8.5           6.1
Raw Materials and
Intermediate Goods             42.9    37.5    37.2    36.1            10.8         8.0        7.7           6.4
Capital Goods                    16.8    25.8    26.3    28.0            18.8         8.3        8.3           7.7
TOTAL         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            12.7         8.1         7.9          6.8
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia and Plan Review Report.



YUGOSLAVIA
INOUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJecd VL
AGGREGATE MARkET AND COMM9IODITY DISTRIDUTIONI OFXPORT,  1970-1975-1979
EnporEt  (values  in millIon USl)                                          ReRinnal llvtrlbnlLnn CD)                                                     Conmodity DistribuEiin Cl)
0f which   C:entrally                                                  of shieh   Centrally                                                        Of whiEh  Centrally
Develnped   Of WShRu  D-velnopin          Oil       Planned            Develnped   Of Whirl:  DevelopIng         Oil       Planned                Develnped    OF  whIch       nelopI0lI      DEl       P.lanned
Market DEn    ERG       Cenucelenrt    Ennrtlno  Erennmnien  Wonld  MarkeE Eve    EEC            Con:::. ries Enxpnreng lecnnelen Sneld           MarkeE EEu       EEC       CnMntrRet EteorEing Eonovese  W-nrld
1970   Pri-ry                                    508.6       394.5       63.9         16.4       177.5       750.0       67.0       52.6           8.5        2.2         23.7      100.0             56.8        60.2        26.0        24.0       32.6      44.7
AgSo rD1   nee                          304.4      2413.2      38.7          8.6        88.6       431.6       70.5       56.3           9.0        2.0         20.5      100.0            34.0         37.1        16.2        12.6       16.2      25.7
Metals 5 Mineraln                       204.2      151.3       25.2          7.8        88.9      318.3        64.1       47.5           7.9        2.5         27.9      110.1             22.8        23.1         10.6       11.4       16.3      19.0
Manlhaccures                              306.0      260.0       174.6        51.9       367.0       920.2       41.6        20.1         18.8         5.6        39.6      100.0             43.2        39.8         73.2       75.9       67.4       55.3
Chemicals                                31.9       22.2       13.4          4.6        51.8        97.1       32.8       22.9          13.8        4.7         53.4      100 0              3.6         3.4          5.6        6.7        9.5        5.8
Machtnery 6 Teanspprtatienn2
Equipment                            110.2        78.1      112.3        27.9        158.8      381.3        28.9       20.5          29,4        7.3        41.7       100.0            12.3         11.9        47.1        40.8       29.1      22.7
Other Manufa-tsesv                      244.7      160.6       48.9         19.5       157.2       450.8       54.3       35.6          10.9        4.3         34.9      100.0             27.3        24.5         20.5       28.5       28.8      26.8
Tptal                                     895.3      655.4       238.5        68.4       545.3   1,679.1         53.3        39.0         14.2         4.1        32.5       100.0           10 100      1000 118.0              100.0       100.0     1O0.O
1975   Primary                                   696.5       454.5      135.1         75.9       539.4   1,371.0         50.8       33.2           9,9        5.0         39.3      100.0             50.3        48.9         17.5       23.4       28.1       33.7
AgriRult-ee                             441.1      327.2       96.7         51.6       150.3       688.1       64.1       47.6          14.1        7.5         21.8      100.0             31.9        35.2         12.5       15.0         7.8      16.9
Metals 6 Minerals                      255.4       127.3       30.4         24.3       309.1       602.9       37.4        18.6          5.6         3.6        57.0      100.0             18.4         13.7         5.0        3.5        70.3      16.8
tlnnnPaetnees                             686.9      475.4       635.5       249.0      1,378.8   2,701.2        25.4        17.6         23.5         9.2        51.0       100.0            49.7         51.1        82.5        76.6       71.9      66.3
Chenleals                                72.0       65.5       60.1         45.4       242.2        379.4      20.3        17.3         15.8        12.0        63.8      100.0              5.6          7.0         7.8       14.0        12.6       9.3
Machi-ey & T--nportation1005.                                                                                                                                                                                           :         4.          . ~
RqnRpnent                            234.7       183.2      408.8       101.0        498.0   1,141.5         20.6       16.1          35.8        8.8        43.6       100.0             17.0         19.7        53.1       31.1        26.0      28.0
other Msnufactures                     375.2       226.7      166.6        102.6       638.6   1,180.3         31.8        19.2         14.1        8.7         54.1      100.0             27.1         24.4        21.6       31.5        33.3      29.0
Total                                   1,383.4      929.9      770.6        325.0     1,918.2   4,072.2         34.0        22.8          18.9        ,0.        47.1       100.0           100.0        100.0        180.0            100.0     100. 0
1979   Pnimry                                  1,259.1       855.1      326.0        131.6       702.9   2,288.0         55.0       37.4          14.2        5.8         30.7      100.0             44.0         42.6        23.9        16.2       24.7      32.3
Agr ielt,re                            811.7       614.1      269.6        109.1       218.7   1,300.0         62.4       47.2          20.7        8.4         16.8      100.0             28.4         30.6        19.8        13.4        7.7      18.3
Metals 6 Minerals                       447.4      241.1       56.4         22.5       484.2       988.0       45.3        24.4          5.7         2.3        49.0      101.0              15.6        12.0          4.1        2.8       17.0       14.8
Manufactures                            1,603.1    1,151.9    1,035.6        681.4     2,146.5   4,785.2         33.5        24.1         21.6        14.2        44.9       100.0             56.0        57.4         76.1       83.8        70.3      67.7
Chenlenin                               172.7      123.3      165.0         80.6       325.9       663.6       76.0        18.6         24.9        12.1        49.?      100.0               6.0         6.1         12.1        9.9       11.4        9.4
Machinery 6 T--nportation2~                                                                                                                          21         4.         0.06o                          612                       .                    .
Equipment                            537.8      464.7       460.3       303.2      1,101.9   2,100.0         25.6       22.1          21.9       14.4         52.5      100.0              18.9        23.2        33.8        37.3       38.7      29.7
Other M.anufactres                     892.7       563.9      410.3       297.7        118.7   2,021.6         44.2        27.9         20.3        14.7        35.5      1OO.0              31.2        28.1         30.2       36.6       25.2       28.6
Total                                  2,862.3   2,007.0    1,361.6          813.0     2,849.3   7,073.2         40.5        28.4          19.3       11.5        40.3       100.0                         1000        100.0      100.0       100.0
So--rce: GAT



- 59 -
Annex 6
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Structure of Industrial Exports, 1975-80
Exports (values in mlLlion US$)
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Industrial Exports, Total                3870       4576       4939       5291       6364       8527
Coal                                        4          4          5         13         15         18
Processed Coal                             -          10           7        16         38         33
Crude Petro. and Gas                        1          1          1          2         -          -
Petro. Derivates                           21         30        116        108        131        150
Electric Power                              3          5         28         12         24         32
Iron ore                                    4          3          5          1         -         -
Iron and Steel                            181        184        146        162        213        204
Non-ferrous Ore                            39         42         39         26         33         36
Non-ferrous Metal                         254        254        200        190        264        272
Refined Non-ferrous Metal                 133        152        138        142        180        239
Non-metallic Mineral                         7         5          4          9         10         10
Processed Non-metallic                     71         80         78         83        105        164
Fabricated Metal Products                 274        336        363        408        457        520
Machinery                                 206        286        411        425        567        647
Transport Equipment                       241        320        322        404        491        653
Shipbuilding                              305        287        415        422        264        317
Electrical Machinery & Apparatus          347        404        458        492        614        820
Basic Chemicals                           247        222        220        243        336        563
Processed Chemicals                       182        190        174        252        363        527
Quarrying                                    5        10         17          8          6          9
Construction Materials                     15         21         22         19         23         32
Saw Mill and Wood Board                   131        237        294        266        324        393
Wood and Cork Products                    132        193        202        216        252        363
Paper                                      64         76         69         71        116        165
Textiles Yarn and Fabric                  148        196        180        174        219        254
Clothing                                  207        232        227        255        276        466
Leather and Fur                            22         26         20         30         51         32
Footwear and Leather Products             215        264        256        282        319        567
Rubber                                     37         45         51         59         94        153
Food                                      236        293        311        396        445        626
Tobacco                                    73         83         59          8          5         95
Beverages                                  31         36         42         46         66         79
Animal Feed                                  1          2          2          2         3          3
Printing                                    13        21         27         11         14         18
Miscellaneous                               16         24         28        39         43         62
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia.



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Structure and Growth of Gross Material Product and Industry
in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia, 1970-80
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                                         MACEDONIA
Percent Share 1/           Annual Average Growth Rate 1/               Percent Share 1/           Annual Average Growth Rate 1/
1960     1970      1980       1960-70    1970-75    1975-80            1960      1970      1980       1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
Agriculture and Fisheries             31.2      20.3.     13.6          0.9         2.1         1,2          38.7      24.5      17.8           3.1         3.6         1.2
Industry 2/                           29.9      35.9      43.3          7.7         7.6         7.9          24.6      33.1      42.3         11.1          8.3         8.5
Construction                          11.8      13.2      11.8          6.7         4.5         4.8            7.7     11.6      10.4          12.3         1.6         7.8
Transport and Communications           7.8       8.1       7.0          5.8         6.2         2.2            6.7      6.7       5.7           7.9         7.3         0.9
Trade                                 12.2      15.4      16.8          7.9         6.5         7.0           14.1     17.5      16.7          10.3         5.6         4.8
Other productive activities            7.1       7.1       7.5          5.4         7.0         5.6            8.Z       6.6       7.1          5.6         6.9         6.0
Gross Material Product               100.0    100.0    100.0            5.4         5.8         5.7         100.0    100.0    100.0            7.8          5.9         5.6
Value Added                                                          Value Added
in 1980                Percent Share of Value Added                  in 1980                Percent share of Value Added
in millions dinars          1970          1975         1980           in million dinars           1970         1975         1980
Electric Energy                                   5,753                  8.8          8.0           7.4                 2,343                  9.1          6.1          7.3
Coal and Coke                                     7,065                 10.3         11.6           9.1                   111                   -            -           0.3
Oil, Oil Products and Gas                         1,071                  1.3          2.0           1.4                   -                     -            -            -
Ferrous Metallurgy 3/                             8,181                 10.2          9.8          10.5                2,270                   1.7         14.8          7.1
Non-ferrous Metallurgy 3/                         1,302                  1.9          2.2           1.7                 1,951                  5.6          6.9          6.1
Non-metallic Minerals 37                          1,200                  2.4           1.8          1.5                 1,608                  6.1          5.4          5.0
Metal Industries, Machinery
and Transport Equipment                        17,300                 18.4         20.5         22.3                 3,541                  6.5           5.8         11.1
Electrical Industries                             2,700                  3.9          3.2           3.5                 1,524                  1.8          2.3          4.8
Chemical Industries                               3,784                  4.7          4.8          4.9                 2,597                   6.4          7.8          8.1
Construction Materials                            2,971                  2.8          2.8           3.8                 1,684                  8.3          6.1          5.3
Wood and Paper Industries                        10,909                 17.5          14.1         14.0                 1,828                  8.1          5.2          5.7
Textile Industries                                6,779                  7.8           7.8          8.7                 6,114                 17.8         16.8         19.1
Leather Industries                                2,661                  1.9          2.9           3.4                   809                  3.3          2.2          2.5
Food Industries and Tobacco                       5,001                  6.1          6.7           6.4                 5,027                22.2          17.8         15.7
Other Industries                                  1,120                  2.0           1.8          1.4                   606                  3.1          2.8          1.9
TOTAL                                            77 797                100.0        100.0         100.0               32,013                 100.0        100.0        100.0
1/  Based on value added in 1972 constant prices.
2/  Including mining, energy and manufacturing.
3/  Including mining.                                                                                                                                                           X
Source: Statistical Yearbooks of Yugoslavia



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Commodity Distribution of Exports in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia, 1977-80
Values in million US$
Bosnia - Herzegovina                               Macedonia
1977      1978      1979      1980        1977      1978      1979      1980
Intermediate Products                            433       436       606        733         101       124       180       184
Raw material and semi manufactures             252       238       365       461           73        94       140       144
Fuels                                           24        29        25        27           -         -         -         -
Manufactures                                    157       169      216       245           28        30        40        40
Capital Goods                                     103       112      213       228           17         9        17        27
Power machines                                  -           1       13         8           -         -         -          2
Metal working machines                           12         8        12        14           2        -         -         -
Electric motors and equipment                    17       23        32        41           -                    2         2
Transport equipment                             15        18        12        22           12         3         7         4
Other capital goods                             59        62       144        143 /1        3         6         8        19 /2    w
Consumer Goods                                    147       165       180       284         117       152       150       209
Food, beverages and tobacco                      19       20        24        29           61        75        76        96
Clothing and footwear                           76        81        90        154          32        44        39        65
Furniture                                       28        31        38        57            2         2         1         2
Textiles                                        17        15        18        24           12        17        17        18
Other consumer goods                              7        18        10        20          10        14        17        28
Total                                       683       713       999      1245         235       285       347       420
/1     Mainly machinery and metal products
/2     Mainly steel structures and heavy metal products
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Yugoslavia



- 62 -
Annex 9
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Statements of Income and Expenses:  1978-1980
(in millions of dinars)
PBS                             SBS
1978     1979      1980         1978      1979     1980
INCOME
Interest on loans                                  4,682    6,634    8,533         3,603    4,994    7,087
Interest on bank deposits                            251       571       446         150       104       168
Fees, commissions & charges                           241       326      499          101      124       115
Other                                                 392       501      485           75        80      260
Gross Income                                     5,566    8,032    9.963         3,929    5,302    7,630
EXPENSES
Financial
Interest on individuals' deposits                1,494    2,251    3,104         1,115    1,477    1,993
Interest on other deposits & borrowings          1,328    2,135    2,812         1,453    2,100    3,121
Debts written off                                   20         5       276            7       19        15
Gther                                              417       736       872         166       186       707
Total Financial Expenses                       3,259    5,127    7,064         2,741    3,782    5,836
Administrative
Salaries and personnel                             489       618       832         235       293       352
Other                                              315       406       558          91       118       184
Total Administrative Expenses                    804    1,024    1,390           326       411       536
Total Expenses                                 4,063    6,151    8,454         3,067    4,193    6,372
Income before statutory obligations                  1,503    1,881    1,509            862    1,109    1,258
Statutory obligations (taxes)                           347       457       475         100       102      122
Net Income                                            1,156    1,424    1,034           762    1,007    1,136
APPROPRIATIONS I/
Property and Equipment Fund                             -         -         -          26-       57       63
Reserve Fund                                                                            -         -         -
Joint Liability Fund                                    -         -         -           -         -         -
Fund of the Bank's Working Communities                137      174       164           50        57       63
Total Funds Allocated                              137       174       164           76      114       126
Distribution to members                               251       551       198         322       513      450
Unappropriated, Income not collected                  768       699      672          364       380      560
1,156    1,424    1,034           762    1,007    1.136
l/Under the new Federal Banking Law effective January 15, 1977:
- The Property and Equipment Funds of the banks were established with the balances on the previous
"Business" Funds; these are used to provide the respective banks' property and equipment and are
credited with capital gains arising from the sale or revaluation of property and equipment;
- The Reserve Funds are to be maintained at a level equivalent to at least 3% of resources placed,
and to be used to maintain current liquidity;
- The Joint Liability Funds, established from the previous Founders' Funds, are also to be
maintained at at least 3% of placed resources, and to be used for writing off uncollectible
loans, as well as for general business purposes;
- The Fund of the Bank's Working Community is also a legal requirement for each bank, to be used
to provide various employees' amenities such as housing, education, sports facilities and holidays.
EMENA/IDF
August 1981



-63 -                                               ANNEX 10
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Balance Sheets as of Years ended 1978 - 1980 1/
(in millions of dinars)
PBS                               SBS
1978      1979       1980           1978     1979       1980
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                               3,899      5 )       9,796         1,268    1,57R       2.8'11
Deposits with National Bank                           5,705      5,285      5,297         2,137    2,069       2,uU2
Short-term loans & current maturities
of long-term loans                                 24,091    34,086    49,553          18,775   20,670    26,634
Securities and discounted bills                       4,749      5,822      8,705         2,903    3,943       7,707
Long-term loans & investments over 1
yr. less current maturities                        58,656    77,435   100,893          37,914   51,876    73,544
Property and equipment                                1,226      1,860      2,526           693       986      1,215
Other assets                                          6,244      9,341    19,632          1,712    2,285       7,463
Total Assets                                      104,570   139,721   196,402          65,402   83,407   121,379
Managed Fund                                       19,650    21,205    23,494           7,930    8,598      8,173
LIABILITIES AND FUNDS EMPLOYED
Demand deposits                                      29,562    35,750    49,260          10,789   13,254    18,099
Savings & short-term deposits up to one year         13,313    17,747    24,933           8,006   10,233    13,589
Savings & long-term deposits over one year           12,984    20,829    27,254          10,996   14,760    20,813
Short-term borrowings & current maturities            7,204    11,887    23,683           5,250    7,154    12,146
Long-term borrowings less current maturities         34,366    44,189    60,099          24,887   31,152    45,054
Other liabilities                                     2,267      3,111      3,408         1,552    2,224       5,709
Total Liabilities                                  99,696   133,513   188,637          61,480   78,777   115,410
Funds Employed 2/
Joint liability fund                                  1,257      1,426      1,496         1,420    1,434       1,586
Reserve Fund                                          1,090      1,198      1,438           997    1,009       1,239
Property and equipment fund                           1,366      1,601      2,063         1,019    1,292       1,627
Fund of the Bank's working communities                  393        516        629           122       151        213
Total Funds Employed                                4,106      4,741      5,626         3,558    3,886      4,665
Unappropriated, income not collected                    768      1,467      2,139           364       744      1,304
Total liabilities and funds employed              104,570   139,721   196,402          65,402   83,407   121,379
Managed Fund                                     19,650    21,205    23,494           7,930    8,598      8,173
Guarantees Outstanding                           96,279   105,503   130,867          22,428   26,062    28,000
1/ These balance sheets were prepared by SDK following to the extent possible accounting practices
of western countries, which differ from Yugoslavian accounting practice. SDK's audit reports for
1978, 1979 and 1980 are available in the project files.
2/ See footnote 1/ of Annex 1.
EMENA/IDF
August 1981



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Projected Income Statements: 1981 - 1984
(in riillions of dinars)
PBS                                                 SBS
1981        1982        1983        1984             1981       1982        1983       1984
INCOME
Interest                                 10,801      13,766       17,465      21,426            8,569     10,492     12,496     15,208
Fees and commission charges                 659          881       1,170       1,500              146        167         200        243
Other income                                660       1,184        1,310       1,286              348        399         475        578
Gross Income                           12,120      15,331      19,945       24,212            9,063     11,058    13,171      16,029
EXPENSES
Financial expenses l/                     8,925      11,887       14,162      17,080            7,045      8,561     10,243    12,508  2
Administrative and other expenses         1,760       2,122        2,516       3,033              691        835         991      1,374
Statutory obligations (taxes)               660          850       1,340       1,680              150        169        223         243
Total Expenses                         11,345      14,359       18,018      21,793            7,886      9,565     11,457     14,125
Net Income                                     775         972       1,927       2,419            1,177       1,493      1,714      1,904
APPROPRIATIONS
Reserve fund                                504          632       1,253       1,572              765        970      1,114       1,238
Other funds 2/                              271          340         674         847              412        523         600        666
1/ Includes amortization of past losses on foreign currency deposits.
2/ Includes property and equipment fund, joint liability fund, fund of the bank's working community and unappropriate income.
EMENA/IDF
March 1982



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Statement of Projected Sources and Applications of Funds:1981-1984
(in million of Dinars)
PBS                                               SBS
1981       1982        1983        1984              1981      1982       1983        1984
SOURCES
Net increase in short-term resources              36,669      27,490      32,557      41,400            15,816    11,722    12,820       14,936
Net increase in long-term deposits                 4,217       6,320       7,783       9,792            2,866      3,618      4,561       5,651
Collection of long-term loans                     12,200      14,350      16,600      20,550            5,050      5,310      7,210       9,732
Borrowings from Federal and Republic funds         4,692       7,254      10,440      14,787            5,534      5,766      7,563       9,598
Other domestic or foreign identified
borrowings including IBRD loans                  4,140       4,464       8,840      10,797            6,044      6,806      9,280      12,192
Unidentified sources                               2,175       2,715       3,620       5,161               424        632       882       1,172
Other liabilities & internal fund generation          819       1,029      2,005       2,521             3,400      2                     200 2,402  2,2
TOTAL                                           64,912      63,622      81,845    105,008            39,134    35,884    44,718        56,001
APPLICATIONS
Net increase in short term assets                  29,179      14,001      15,810     17,027            14,817      7,396      7,971      8,651
Long-term loan disbursements                       27,306     38,165      51,569      69,484            20,902    24,430    32,405       42,279
Repayment of long-term borrowings                   5,000       7,000       9,000     11,500             2,290      2.810     2,930       3,500
Other applications                                  3,427       4,456      5,466       6,997             1,125      1,248      1,412       1,571
TOTAL                                           64,912      63,622      81,845    105,008             39,134    35,884    44,718       56,001
EMENA/IDF
March 1982



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Projected Balance Sheets as of Years Ending 1981-1984
(in millions of dinars)
PBS                                                  SBS
1981        1982        1983        1984              1981        1982       1983       1984
ASSETS
Short-term loans and depositsl/         103,059    119,918    139,905    162,824               55,404      64,234    74,095    85,187
Long-term loans and investements        115,469    136,426    167,218    210,260               87,966    105,652   128,957   159,063
Other assets                             25,585      30,041      35,507       42,504            9,803       11,351    12,463    14,034
Total \ssets                          244,113    286,385    342,630    415,588              153,173    180,937   215,515   258,284
LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                             a,
Short-term borrowings and deposits-/136,544    166,034    201,091    245,491                   60,170      72,012    85,402   100,738
Long-term deposits                       31,471      37,791      45,574       55,366           23,679      27,297    31,858    37,509
Long-term borrowings                     64,106      69,539      80,939       97,184           54,246      64,520    78,745    97,807
Other liabilities                         3,452       3,509        3,587       3,689            7,932        8,469      9,157      9,973
Total Liabilities                     235,573    276,873    331,191    401,730              146,027     172,298   205,162   246,027
EQUITY
Reserve fund                              1,942       2,574        3,827       5,399            2,004        2,974      4,088      5,326
Other funds                               6,598       6,938        7,612       8,459            5,142        5,665      6,265      6,931
Total Equity                            8,540       9,512      11,439       13,858            7,146       8,639    10,353    12,257
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY              244,113    286,385    342,630    415,588               153,173    180,937   215,515   258,284
1/ Includes current maturities of long-term loans and investments.
21 Includes current maturities of long-term borrowings.
EMENA/IDF
March 1982



YUGOSLAVIA
Annex 14
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT VI
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 9 82                                 1 9 83                                  1 9 84                  1 9 85    1 9 86   1 9 87
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 01 - 12   01 - 12   01 - 12
Introduction of new project
supervision system                                                       x
Agreement with Bank on TOR for preliminary
study (energy)                                             x
Selection of consultants for preliminary study                            X
Preliminary study                                                           xXXXX
Board approval of loan                                           X
Submission of draft report of preliminary                                                                                                                                                                   0,
study to Bank                                                                  x
Bank's coments to borrowing banks and
agreement on TOR of energy audit                                                  X
Selection of consultants for energy audit                                      XXXXXX
Loan effectiveness                                                         x
Energy audit                                                                                  _000000XXX00001
Submission of draft report of energy audit
to Bank                                                                                                         X
Bank's coments to borrowing banks on
energy audit                                                                                                     x
Preparation of feasibility reports on
identified projects (energy) 1/                                                                                  xnO0xxxxxxxxx:zI0.LuXXXXXXXXE X X XX
Review of interest rates                                xx                                      xx                                     xx
Loan commitments                                                               XXXJ    XXXYXXXWYYYYYXYYY__  _XYY__XMXY
Loan disbursements                                                          xX                     XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX YYYYYXYYXYIXYXYY           XXXXXXXXX XKXXYY  XXXXYXYYXAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXGIXXXXXXX
1/ Time period will depend upon the number of sub-projects to be identified.
EMENA/IDF
March 1982



- 68 -                          Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
ENERGY CONSERVATION/CONVERSION COMPONENT
Sub-project Identification - Terms of Reference of Preliminary Study
The borrowing banks will hire consultants, acceptable to the World
Bank, to perform the following tasks:
(i) identify the most energy intensive industry sectors existing in
Bosnia and Macedonia, likely to include iron and steel, cement,
aluminium, chemicals, pulp and paper, glass, basic metals, metal
products, machinery and food production;
(ii)  establish a list of medium and large enterprises in each of the
selected industry sectors;
(iii) prepare and conduct a survey of these enterprises, aiming at
collecting data, at the factory level, (a) on types of fuels used and
consumption in quantity and value for steam/hot water generation,
direct firing, electric motors, refrigeration, space heating and
lighting, in-plant electric generation, and (b) on energy producers
and installations, production process, and quantity and cost of
energy used per unit of production;
(iv)  based on the survey and using international standards, establish
estimates of the potential for energy conservation and substitution
in the selected industry sectors and, possibly, estimates of capital
investments required by sector;
(v) select a number of factories (about 15-20 in each republic)
presenting the most promising potential for energy
conservation/conversion for energy audit;
(vi)  refine criteria by sector for eligibility of energy
conservation/conversion projects for financing under IC VI and
subsequent World Bank industrial credits; and
(vii) prepare an energy audit program of the selected enterprises including
terms of reference, timing, composition of auditing team, equipment
needed for energy audits, training requirements of Yugoslav experts
for future energy audit, needs for technical assistance in other
areas (energy monitoring and energy management in industrial
enterprises) and define the terms of relationships between the
borrowing banks and the consulting firm which would perform energy
audits.



- 69 -                          Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
The above study would require (a) the general assistance of the
Committee for Energy and Industry in each Republic to make available existing
data and to establish contacts with enterprises and (b) full support of the
associated banks (PBS and SBS) and the basic banks.
EMENA|IDF
October 1981



- 70 -
YUGOSLAVIA                       Annex 16
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Projected Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
T o t a 1
Year           PBS           SBS
Annual           Cumulative
1982          0.5           0.5                1.0               1.0
1983          4.8           3.4                8.2               9.2
1984          9.7           8.1               17.8              27.0
1985          8.1           9.7               17.8              44.8
1986          6.5           6.5               13.0              57.8
1987          3.4           4.8                8-2              66.0
EMENA/IDF
March 1982



Annex 17
- 71 -
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VI
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A-1   "Yugoslavia:  Export Performance and Policies", Bank Report No. 2972-YU
dated October 16, 1980.
A-2   "Raising Productivity in Yugoslavia Industry - Some Issues", Bank
Report No. 3383a-YU dated July 21, 1981.
A-3   "Yugoslavia:  Small Scale Industry and Industrial Policy", Bank Report
No. 3452-YU dated August 28, 1981.
B-1   English Translation of the Five-Year Social Plan of Bosnia-Herzegovina
B-2   English Translation of the Five-Year Social Plan of Macedonia
C-1   Export study prepared by PBS
C-2   Export study prepared by SBS
C-3   Appraisal data prepared by PBS
C-4   Appraisal data prepared by SBS
D-1   Miscellaneous working papers for the Industrial Credit VI



I



IBRD 15675
140                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'00             YUGOSLAVIA                 MAY 1981
/  REGIONAL DISTRIBUTlON
'-OF SOCIAL PRODUCT IN 1979
I'  Jesenice               L   \r F N   A&,                   e                 H  U  N  G 'A  R  Y'                                                         Mining and monufacturing
0 0 t g t           ;; ;; + | j (                                 Agricultute and forestry
R46-       LJUBLJAN                 i aniM                                                                                                                       Other                              |
Pic$ 4btc Sn  -P                                                            Major roads                   46e'
\~~~~~~ \t ROMAN IA "tRwIra
T. -                                                                                                                                                           Ports
' X Sin t  CRC      )                     c >2                      /                         -.os   C0Airports
e  arlo,ac sisci   R                    ki;                                                    '~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --'Repu~blic boundaories
$~~~~~~~~~~~5 r<, \M sa                                oiP z         A.,         \; 
Novskra                   Vovr                                                                  Au,torPmous province 6oundories'
ro  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-      nternational boundaries
R~~~~~ Mtovin  f     t>  t-t  
/   F    eRMnYj               ,.         riiedort    Pl t                                            /k            .   -vrf      t 
u    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~VtcSCALE; MILLION DINARS
300,000
I <                                                                                            BeIty sai                                    20.0,00
spic~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~oo                                                                           ),Yt" 25,000
/ ~~~~~~                                    ~     ~ ~~~~~ ,  S .t    ott ^oftera  so      N  I A                       Prl p\ 
445-
/4\  ,1 T A L Y\  t'BULGARIA    boundyrle5 /*O*ns US@^ARAJEVO   Uzi                         Paracin taj -cr
i I \ \ > ^ W~~~~~~~~~~~~ovl di Pandzr fares                                                                    n   T  O      riBtolajhotasin
MILES 6 )        ALsJAC /fsubo us T   Sis                  Dubravni EnCE
--- FED  )EP  ;<  C..CHOSLOVAKIA   ,' u. R.                                Tivat0s Ti.O,                                         rus
ROMANIA                                                                      TrtoeVkles c
Is.~~~~~~~~~~~~C   -                              RC
KILOMETERS 9                  YUGSLAIATh, oaIgoe e.proerdhrtheKosvo                                                                      MAEDkJ 
N  the report to which it v attachMitoedc (OFtY
CZECHOSOVAKIA                     ULGASRA                    Tia
S\~l TZER AN AS'  ASTRIA  HUN    ARY~       GREE          4r2vpeveofo  4onaies                     20                                    2



