Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Lo/V 3c7-7'4J
Report No. 7546-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
May 4, 1989
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



- i -
CURRENCY EQUIV.ALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of US$1.00 in TL
1980 January                                           70,0*O
1981 January                                           91.00
1982 January                                          139.60
1983 January                                          191.14
1984 January                                          309.20
1985 Jarwary                                          451.40
1986 January                                          586.40
1987 January                                          752.93
1988 January                                         1120.00
1989 January                                         1779.00
1989 March                                           2027.00
LLST OF ABBREVIATIONS
EB        -         Emlak Bank
EC        -         European Community
ETC       -         Export Trading Company
FERIS     -         Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
GNP       -         Gross National Product
GOT       -         Government of Turkey
BB        -         Halk Bank
IEDP      -         Industrial Export Development Project
[SI       -         Medium Scale Industry
PCI       -         Participating Credit Institution
SIDO      -         Small Industry Development Orgattzation
SIS       -         State Institute of Statistics
SMI       -         Small and Medium Scale Industries
SMI I     -         First SMI Project
SMI II    -         Second SMI Project
SOE       -         Statements of Expenditures
SSI       -         Small Scale Industries
SYKB      -         Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
(Industrial Investment and Credit Bank)
TKB       -         Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (Development
Bank of Turkey)
TSE       -         Turkish Standards Institute
VAT       -         Value Added Tax
VB        -         Vakiflar Bank
FESCAL YEAR
January 1 - Yiecember 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
.- ii -
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................... .           iv
I.      INTRODUCTION . ................................... .              I
II.     SECTORAL BACKGROUND . ..       .........      ..      .....       1
A.  Economic Context and Recent Developments   .....              1
B.  The Industrial Sector .......... o........ .... .. .          3
C.  Small and Medium Scale Industr           rs..                 4
D. Financial Environment.                                         7
III.    PROJECT RATIONALE.        ...............  ..       .            1.
A.  Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy ..............            10
B.  Past SMI Projects ............................. .            11
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ..................            13
IV.     THE PROJECT .............................                        14
A. Objectives and Scope ..               .                       14
B.  Project Costs and Financing Plan.                           15
C.  Credit Component      .      ......   ..... . ..             16
D. Technical Assistance Components    ..19
E.  Export Promotion Component..                                20
F.  Quality Improvement Component               ..              22
G. SMI Sector Statistics               ....                     23
V.   THE LOAN.............                                               24
A. Terms and Conditions    ...24
B.  Administrative Requirements.                                26
VI.     BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................                   28
A.  Benefits ........................................            28
B.  Risks ...........................................           29
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                     ... ......    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ill -
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Industrial Structure and Performance Indicators
ANNEX 2. SMI Credit Demand
ANNEX 3. Participating Credit Institutions
ANNEX 4. Documents Available in the Project Files
This report was prepared by J. Pernia, S. Krishnan and N. Chamlou (EMlID),
R. Behbehani and E. Manes (EMTTF), N. Mangosing-Koeppen (EMlCO), V. Barrios
and F. Murray (Consultants), following a pre-appraisal mission in June 1988
and an appraisa'l mission in November 1988.



- iv -
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SIJMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Turkey (GOT)
Beneficiaries:               Participating Credit Institutions (PCI) which
include: Emlak Bank, Halk Bank, the Industrial
Investment and Credit Bank and Vakiflar Bank. The
proposed project would also provide funds for
technical assis.ance to: the Turkish Standards
Institute, selected export trading companies, the
State Institute of Statistics, and the Small
Industry Development Organization.
Amount:                      US$204.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                       Seventeen years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Re-lending Terms:            The final lending rate to subborrowers would be the
prevailing variable Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
Scheme (FERIS) rate which would be adjusted
quarterly by reference to the average 3-month
Treasury Bill rate in the preceding three months.
The Government through FERIS would bear the
exchange and interest rate risks since the ultimate
subborrowers are small and medium scale
enterprises, which have relatively little capacity
to judge and hedge against these risks. The
Government would relend the proceeds of the Bank
Loan to the PCIs at terms which would provide to
them a spread of 3%. The PCIs would repay their
loans on a schedule based on the composite of the
maturities of their subloans.
Project Description:         The project would support GOT's program for SMI
development by promoting efficient SMI investments
and operationst improving credit access for SMI
enterprises by expanding the channels for SMI
finance; providing technical and marketing
assistance to improve SMI product quality and
expand their markets; and improving the accuracy
and reliability of SMI statistics for policy and
strategy formulation.



v 
Benefits and Risks:   The benefits arising from the project include expansion
of SMI investments and operations in export-oriented
activities and increased access to institutional credit
for SMI enterprises, improved product and market
diversification through linkage with export trading
companies, and improved product quality. It is
estimated tlat the project would assist some 900 SMI
units to invest about US$400 million equivalent, and
create about 26,000 new full-time jobs.
There is a risk that the commercial banks participating
in the project would not pay sufficient attention to SMI
lending considering the small size of this operation in
relation to the total business of these banks. Separate
monitoring and reporting will be required to ensure
attention to this operation by the top management of
these banks. There is a risk that, due to weaknesses in
staffing and procedures, the public sector institutions
will be unable to pla i the roles assigned to them for
the technical assistance components of the project.
Training and consultancy would be provided by the
project to strengthen these institutions and strong
private sector participation has been incorporated.
Estimated Costs:                                 (US$ Million)
Local               Foreign             Total
Subloan Component           300.0               200.0               500.0
Technical Assistance
Components                1.5                 4.5                 6.0
TOTAL                       301.5               204.5               506.0
Financing Plan:                                  (US$ Million)
Local               Foreign             Total
IBRD                          0.0               204.5               204.5
Private Sector              200.5                 0.0               200.5
PCI                         100.5                 0.0                100.5
GOT                           0.5                 0.0                  0.5
TOTAL                       301.5               204.5               506.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millioc)
IBRD FY                     90       91      92        93      94       95
Annual                     20.0    33.0      58.0    48.0    26.0    19.5
Cumulative                 20.0    53.0    111.0   159.0   185.0   204.5



TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUJCTION
1.01     Small and medium scale industry (SMI) development has become an
important component of the Government of Turkey's (GOT) industrial strategy in
view of the need to increase employment, reduce regional income disparities
and achieve enhanced exports. The Bank's past SMI operations (Labor Intensive
Project, Loan 1952-TU and the Small and Medium Scale Industry Project, Loan
2647-TU) have succeeded in helping the Government to assist the SMI sector; in
encouraging two financial institutions to expand their SMI portfolios; and in
guiding the Government's SMI development agency in providing promoi-onal and
extension services (paras 3.04-3.11). In view of the successful
implementation of the past SMI projects, and given the need and scope for
further SMI development, GOT has requested financing for th- proposed project
to support the expansion and modernization of this sector. Lnis report
recommends a Bank loan of US$204.5 million in support of a US$506.0 million
project.
1.02     The proposed Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (SMI II)
would expand financial, technical and marketing support for SMIs to enable
them to increase their contribution to industrial employment, exports and
output. The proposed project would provide US$200 million for onlending by
the participating credit institutions (PCI) to eligible SMI units, which is
expected to result in fixed investments of about US$400 million in about 900
units and, based on past experience, approximately 26,000 full-time jobs.
Technical assistance would be provided to the PCIs to train staff and improve
their operating procedures and information systems for project-based lending
operations. Technical assistance would also finance export product and market
development for SMI manufacturers by selected Export Trading Companies (ETC);
develop a product quality assurance program for SMI units by the Turkish
Standards Institute (TSE); and help finance the effort of the State Institute
of Statistics (SIS) to revamp SMI data gathering, processing and analysis to
ir.orease their reliability and accuracy.
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Context and Recent Developments
2.01     In the early 1980s, Turkey initiated an extensive stabilization
program, including a wide-ranging program of structural reforms. The
structural reforms were designed to promote an outward orientation of the
economy, and to promote allocative and dynamic efficiency through greater
reliance on market forces and the private sector - representing a sharp break
from the past dirigiste policy regime and the import substitution development
strategy.



-2-
2.02     The Turkish economy has responded well to the growth-orien';.ed
adjustment strategy; the economy has maintained high growth (over 5X per year)
without jeopardizing its creditworthiness. The key to the success of this
strategy has been the Turkish export response. Stabilization accompanied by
aggressive devaluation, trade liberalization, and export promotion measures
led to a large shift of productive capacity from domestic to export markets.
The economy raised its total factor productivity in the short term, rapidly
increasing capacity utilization. Aided initially by buoyant Middle East
markets and 'ater by expanding European markets, exports grew at over 207 per
year in real terms and the share of exports in Gross National Product (GNP)
more than tripled by the mid-l.130s.  Industrial exports grew fastest,
increasing their share to over 75% of the country's total exports from just
over a third at the beginning of the decade.
2.03     The balance between growth and external adjustment has been unm=ched
by most other highly indebted countries. In 1988, the current account
improved further, shifting to a significant surplus of 2% of GNP. But,
internal adjustment and the requisite fiscal discipline have been subject to
the country's political-economy cycle. Thus, a rapid economic and fiscal
expansion in 1986-87 contributed to a rise in inflation to 70% by 1988, which
reflected the pass-through effects of the public sector price adjustments that
followed the November 1987 general elections. Public investment was also
sharply reduced in 1988, thus enabling the Government to attain its public
sector borrowing requirement target of 6% in 1988. Although economic growth
has slowed markedly since mid-1988, real interest rates for lending remain
high. Of particular concern, therefore, is the impact of such an environment
on the sustainability of the Turkish export drive, since it has tended to
divert investment into speculative purposes and away from the tradable goods
sectors, and since the capacity utilization in the private sector has on
average reached a historical high (in contrast to the early 1980s when
underutilIzed capacity served the country's external objectives). New
investment now is therefore critical for an export performance which would
continue to contribute to the country's adjustment process.
2.04     Thus, policies to restore internal macro balances and to reform the
financial sector remain the highest priority both for the Government and for
the Bank's policy dialogue. The Government has set its macroeconomic targets
within the framework of a medium-term adjustment program for 1988-91 that
envisages a gradual restoration of sustainable balances. The 1988 Country
Economic Memorandum ("Turkey - Towards Sustainable Growth", Report No.
TU-7378) analyzed the program and proposed several additional measures to
effect fiscal restraints. The Government remains committed to reduce
inflation. The ef.ects of tighter financial policies since late 1988 are
beginning to be reflected, not only in slower growth and an improved balance
of payments posi'cion, but also in a marked reduction of inflation in the first
quarter of 1989.
2.05     The Government's medium-term adjustment program reflects the fact
that there are several factors that limit its ability to address the
macroeconomic problems quickly with drastic austerity measures, important
among them being simultaneous reform efforts to strengthen the financial
system. In addition, there is a real concern of the Government for the
sizeable social cost of adjustment incurred by the population throughout this
034s P



- 3 -
decade - in terms of loss of jobs, lower wages relative to other prices in the
economy, and for some possibly even permanent reductions in their expected
stream of lifetime income.  It is partly this social concern that underlines
the priority attached by the Government to the proposed project.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.06     As a focus of the adjustment program, the manufacturing sector
expanded during the 1980s by directing output toward the external market. The
share of output being exported rose from 6% in 1980 to over 15% in 1987 as a
result of the unprecedented growth in manufactured export receipts. Due to
the low capacity utilization in the early eighties, this expansion of the
manufacturing sector occurred without much increase in fixed in"estment.
Following a large drop in 1980, private manufacturing fixed investment
recovered only gradually, showing negligible growth between 1981 and 1985.
Employnent likewise grew slowly, partly explaining the rapid increase in labor
productivity. Private fixed investment started to recover in 1986 growing by
13X and growth in manufacturing output accelerated to 10%. In 1987,
manufacturing output continued to expand rapidly but private manufacturing
fixed investment declined again, indicating that rapid growth will be
difficult to sustain under the current financial conditions (para 2.03).
2.07     The pattern of export-led growth was prevalent across tne entire
manufacturing sector as all sub-sectors increased their outward orientation,
some dramatically, such as textiles, leather and machinery. Naturally,
without exception, the sub-sectors with above average export growth also
experienced above average output growth.  Specifically, textile, leather and
machinery were among the fastest growing sub-sectors in terms of output and
exports, followed by chemicals and wood products.  Textiles, in particular,
heve been by far the most important export industry accounting for over a
quarter of exports in 1987. Leather, cherdicals, electrical appliance, metal
working industries, iron & steel and agro-industry also have been important
export sectors, accounting for another 35% of exports. In terms of future
growth, however, these industries, particularly textiles and leather, have
also experienced the highest rates of capacity utilization.
2.08     The Government's commitment to the outward-oriented development
strategy with an actilre exchange rate policy, import liberalization and
bureaucratic streamlining during the 1980s, have provided a supportive policy
framework for industrial export activities. Recent measures aimed at
improving the export environment include real devaluations in 1986 and 1987,
and a reduction in tariff dispersion and rates in 1988 to offset previous
increases in levies. In April 1988, the Government took further steps to
reform the system of direct export incentives in accordance with long standing
plans to bring Turkey's export promotion program in line with its present and
potential competitors. Export tax rebates, which have been a p- e subsidy
since the introduction of the Valus~ Added Tax (VAT) in 1985, were phased out
during 1988. In place of the tax rebates, a rediscounted credit line for
exporter- with greater than US$iOO million of annual exports was made
available through the newly-formed Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank). In
addition to the Ex-Im Bank credit, exporters can still benefit from duty-free
imported inputs, corporate tax allowarces and investment incentives, and two
Central Bank rediscounted financing schemes.  Furthermore, to strengthen the
0 346P



- 4 -
linkages among firms producing export value added, the Central Bank has
started a Domestic Letter of Credit system similar to that successfully
implemented in Korea, Mexico and Indonesia and the Treasury is discussing a
strengthened legal framework for ETC and their suppliers.
2.09     The recent chdnges in thle export incentive regime represent the
Covernment's continued effort to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
the export promotion system by encouraging exports through an appropriate
exchange rate policy, a renewed emphasis on export financing and broader
export services, rather than through direct subsidies. The elimination of
export rebates will discourage inefficient marginal exports, help eliminate
the potential for abuse by way of export overinvoicing, and encourage ETCs to
provide needed value added to exports (para 2.15). Altheugh there may be a
short-term drop in the growth of export receipts as marginal exporters fall
out and fictitious exports are reduced. the elimination of the export tax
rebate should help reduce the disparity in export incentives among activities,
make producers more quality minded and traders more servicc iented,
ultimately improving the competitiveness of Turkish exports. ihe challenge
will be to avoid the 1986 experience and resist pressure to re-introduce
export subsidies in response to a short term fall in exports.
C. Small & Medium Scale Industries
2.10     In addition to furthering important social goals, the SMI sector has
played an integral role in the industrialization process in Turkey. It has
contributed to robust industrial development by generating badly needed
employment from expanded labor-intensive production, by strengthening backward
and forward industrial linkages, and by serving as an entry level and training
ground for new firms. Although there is very little data covering production
characteristics of various industrial size groups, available indicators
provide evidence that the SMI sector in Turkey is more labor-intensive and
*           invests less for a unit of output than large industry.  Employment growth in
small (10-49 employees) and medium (50-99 employees) firms averaged 4.72 and
4.2! p.a. respectively during 1980-85 while employment in large firms grew by
2.2% (Annex 1, Table 1). The employment creation potential of SMI is further
supported by evidence that the average cost per job in the sub-projects funded
by the preceding two SMI loans to Turkey is lower than the original estimate,
indicating that labor-intensity and employment gene..ation were higher than
expected. In addition to these technical considerations, a UNIDO report
states that the characteristics of Turkey's labor market, including the lack
of skilled labor and the use of apprenticeship for introducing young workers
into the labor force, make SMI firms particularly suitable to provide
employment growth in Turkey. Although harder to measure empirically, there is
also evidence that indirect employment creation, especially in rural areas,
can be higher in the SMI sector than in large firms which have a higher import
intensity.
2.11     SMI firms create backward linkages through rural income generation
and induce the development of supplier services and infrastructure in
underdeveloped areas. Also prevalent in the Turkish industrial structure are
forward linkages, in the form of industrial and commercial sub-contracting.
In industrial sub-contracting, where an SMI unit produces an intermediate good
or spare part, unit-cost reductions benefit the large firm while technology,
pricing and marketing information accrue to the small, firm along with a ready
0134 .-,r



outlet for production. Examples of these symbiotic relationships between
small and larger firms abound in Turkey, especially in the provision of spare
parts and intermediates to the auto and appliance industries, while in the
case of textiles and garments, producers often sub-contract intermediate
stages of the production process and look to SMI firms to fill demand
overflows. Another linkage in the SMI sector is commercial sub-contracting,
the most important example of which is the sale of final products to ETCs or
other exporters. Given the need for firms to turn increasingly outward for
expansion and difficulties for SMI firms to export directly, this
exporter-produc r relationship can serve the SMI sector well, but needs to be
developed further. Assistance in the development of the ETC relationship with
SMI firms is a component of the proposed technical assistance of this project
(paras 4.16-4.23).
2.12     Structure and Performance of the SMI Sector.  Nearly all SMI
enterprises are in the private sector as the public sector accounted for only
3.72 of SMI establishments, 4.57 of SMI employment and 4.2% of SMI value added
in 1985. Of the more than 10,000 private sector firms (with greater than 10
workers) which comprised the manufacturing sector in 1985, 7,989 (782) were
small, 1,092 (112) were medium, and 1,174 (11X) employed 100 or more workers.
The share of total private manufact-iring employment was 252 for small firms
and 122 for medium firms.  In terms of output shares, 17% was accounted for by
small firms and 10% by medium firms. In terms of product coverage, small and
medium firms tend to be concentrated in industries which use labor-intensive
production, process local raw materia'.s and are particularly dependent on
proximity to the market.  The sub-sectors dominating the SMI sector in Turkey
were food and tobacco which accounted for 27% of SMI output and 18% of SMI
employment, textiles and leather which accounted for 23% of SMI output and 247
of employment, chemicals which accounted for 13% of SMI output and 117 of
employment and machinery and fabricated metals which accounted for 17% of SMI
output and 257 of employment (Annex 1, Table 2).
2.13     In terms of relative performance, available statistics make it
difficult to evaluate SMI firms within Turkey's overall industrial performance
and impossible to compare Turkey's SMI sector internationally. Yet, available
cross-country empirical evidence indicates that firms in the SMI sector
exhibit lower labor productivity than large industries, but that the level of
capital productivity and even total factor productivity can be higher in small
and medium firms. Static indicators shown in Annex 1, Table 1 seem to support
the conjecture that smaller firms require less capital for a unit of output.
In terms of productivity growth, a study carried out at Bosphorous University
attempted to calculate labor, capital and total factor productivity growth for
SMI (1- 99 workers) and large scale industries (100+ workers) covering the
1980-85 period. The results, though based on poor capital stock figures, show
higher capital and total factor productivity growth in small and medium size
firms. Surprisingly, the study also found comparable growth of labor
productivity between the two size groups. In terms of sub-sector productivity
differences, the study found that SMI firms in wood products, textiles,
non-metallic materials, and "other manufacturing" sub-sectors experienced
total factor productivity growth greater than large firms in the same
sub-sectors, while large and SMI firms in the chemicals and plastics
sub-sector recorded equal productivity growth.



- 6 -
2.14     The Informal Sector.  By far the largest number of manufacturing
units fall within the informal sector, defined as establishments employing
less than 10 workers. In 1985, there were an estimated 183,000 units in the
informal manufacturing sector, accounting for almost 95% of all manufacturing
establishments and consisting mostly of artisans and handicraft units. The
average size of an informal manufacturing unit was 2 employees. The slow
growth in the artisan sector during the seventies continued during the
eighties as the number of enterp.ises grew by 3.7%, compared to 4.1% during
1970-80, and employment in the artisan sector expanded by only 4.5%, compared
to 38.5% during the seventies. Thus, the share of total manufacturing workers
employed in the informal sector fell from 37% in 1980 to 34% in 1985. There
exists little data on production of the informal sector, but available
evidence indicates that output growth in this sector has traditionally been
sluggish. Between 1963-80, growth industries (in terms of number of
enterprises) in the informal sector include wood and furniture, parts for
transport equipment and machinery, appliances, metalware, fur, leather,
footwear and clothing.
2.15     Policy Environment.  The reforms pursued by the Government since 1980
have increased incentives for efficient production to private sector firms in
general, and by implication, to SMI firms. The SMI sector appears to be
responding well, and looks to exports as a key market for expansion.
Moreover, the export prospects of the SMI sector which are to a large extent
dependent on the policy environment surrounding the ETC-producer relationship,
should have been improved by the recent changes in export incentives. The
existence of scaled tax rebates led many firms to export through ETC to obtain
the extra tax rebate, even though the producers could export directly. This
type of "pass through" exporting behavior meant that the ETCs did not have to
provide any value added through normal export market services and thus meant
that firms which needed these services most, in particular SMI firms, were
crowded out by firms which needed them least. Currently, in anticipation of
fewer "pass through" exports, ETCs are becoming more service-oriented, and are
aggressively seeking out new suppliers of export products, including SMI
suppliers (para 2.09).
2.16     In order to encourage the ETCs to improve their export marketing
services, there should be little distortion in the producer's decision to
export directly - indirectly so that the ETCs would have to attract suppliers
by competiig through enhanced services. One implication is that the
successful indirect exporter should receive all incentives and preferences
provided to successful direct exporters. There are some areas in the export
incentive scheme which allow the filtering of export incentives from final
exporters to "first-round" suppliers of exportable products, including VAT
rebates for exporters and duty-free imports of intermediate goods.
Documentation requirements, however, may have limited the use of these
mechanisms. Recognizing the importance of enhancing the exporter-supplier
relationship, especially given the current level of non-preferential interest
rates and scarcity of working capital credit, the Central Bank has developed a
mechanism whereby export finance and incentives can be automatically channeled
to indirect expctrters through the Domestic Letter of Credit system without the
additional documentation requirements of the existing system.  Since many
indirect exporters are SKI firms, the implementation of such a mechanism will
assist SMI export activity by providing them the same incentives as final
exporters, thus allowing all export value added to face world market priceb



for inputs, outputs and finance, and by encouraging a service oriented
relationship between the SMI firms and ETCs. The Government is also
considering developing a stronger legal basis for the ETCs which would provide
greater transparency of ETC operations and a strengthened relationship between
ETCs and their suppliers.
2.17     SMI Promotion.  Perhaps equally important is the lack of a
coordinated set of effective programs to counteract the natural bias against
small firms in cost items subject to economies of scale, such as meeting
regulatory requirements, gathering information on export markets and
technological developments, and implementation of production and quality
control programs. Although a number of public agencies, such as the Turkish
Scientific Research Board and a related information center, the National
Productivity Center, Turkish Standards Institute, the Industrial Training and
Development Center, and the State Export Promotion Board (IGEME), have been
established to assist by providing technical and management advice, they have
had limited impact due to their lack of contact with the private sector,
inadequate outreach and promotional efforts and bureaucratic procedures.
2.18     In 1974, the Government established the Small Industry Development
Organization (SIDO), the only organization devoted exclusively to improving
SMI's access to extension services. Numerous problems and delays have
prevented SIDO from becoming an effective promotional organization up to now.
In April 1988, SIDO's management and function were reorganized in recognition
of the need for a more coordinated development strategy for SMI. The
intention is for SIDO to have a broader policy coordination and advisory role
whiie at the same time maintaining its role as provider of general extension
and consultancy services. As SIDO's establishment law and charter were being
discussed during appraisal, the impact of the changes on SIDO's contribution
to the development of the SMI sector is uncertain. There is, therefore, a
need to develop other channels for services to SMI since SIDO will continue to
be constrained by its being a public sector agency.
D. Financial Environment
2.19     The financial sector of Turkey is quite diversified in terms of
institutions but has limited market depth and is small in relation to the
level of economic development of the country, with M2 being only about 232 of
GDP. The system is dominated mainly by the banking sector which accounts for
about 90Z of total financial assets. Capital and money markets are small and
the equity market is a recent creation. There are 40 private commercial banks
(24 domestic and 16 foreign) but the 13 public sector banks account for about
half of total banking assets. The Government-owned Agricultural Credit Bank
(TCZB) is the largest bank accounting for about a fifth of total banking
sector assets. The four largest banks (TCZB and three private banks) account
for half of the banking sector. Thus, despite the multiplicity of
institutions and the recent entry of 12 foreign banks, the banking sector
remains concentrated.
2.20     Industrial Finance.  Term finance for industry in Turkey is provided
mainly by the two private and two public sector development banks, which rely
for funding principally on multilateral and bilateral sources and from the
rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank. Term lending by commercial



banks has been limited and has been undertaken by them principally with the
help of rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank. As the rediscounting
facilities of the Central Bank have contracted, and with the limited resource
mobilization capability of the development banks and limited term
transformation by the commercial banks, the volume of credit available for
industrial investment has declined over the past three years. This supply
constraint has been accompanied by the demand dampening effects of high real
interest rates.
2.21     SMI Financing.  Lerding to private SMI has been even more
constrained. Not only are there the problems of resource availability and
high real interest rates, but also only a limited number of financial
institutions have been involved in lending to SMI. Lending to SMI is
principally done by Halk Bank (HB), the Industrial Investment and Credit Bank
(SYKB) and the Development Bank of Turkey (TKB, formerly DESIYAB). Halk Bank
is a Government commercial-bank which is mandated to finance small scale
industries. However, because of its nature as a commercial bank, it has
traditionally concentrated on providing working capital finance to small
enterprises; only recently has its project financing portfolio started to
grow. SYKB is a private development bank, which has traditionally provided
investment loans to small and medium industries. It has, however. recently
been moving up in scale and now competes for larger projects and enterprises.
TKB is a specialized public bank whose original mandate was to lend to and/or
invest in factories set up by Turkish expatriate workers. Because of
difficulties with this type of activity, it has moved out of it and now lends
to any industrial undertaking regardless of size. Thus, not only are there a
limited number of institutions dealing with SMI, but there is a tendency for
the existing institutions to move up in their lending scales.
2.22     Current Financial Sector Issues.  Financial sector issues were
initially addressed by the Bank through its first Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL I). Under that loan, financial policies were addressed to reform
the interest rate structure and reduce the volume of preferential credits.
Institutional measures were included to strengthen bank supervision, to
provide training, and to develop and expand the money and capitol markets.
The primary and secondary markets for Treasury Bills and commercial papers
have expanded, as have the listings and trading activities in the stock
exchange. Auditing of banks and listed companies have been initiated with
their 1987 accounts as agreed.
2.23     Despite progress in reforms under FSAL I, the financial situation of
the banking system has not improved. Many banks are carrying a heavy burden
of non-performing loans as the real sector suffers from high real interest
rates and adjustment costs in a more liberalized environment. A second
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL II) has been made by the Bank to follow
through on the reforms initiated under FSAL I and deepen the reform process.
FSAL II is specifically addressing four areas of concern. The first relates
to the Government's large fiscal deficit and its impact on the financial
sector. Action on fiscal policy is needed in order to reduce the high
interest rates on commercial loans, and Treasury and corporate securities.
The second area concerns the financial health of the banking system. The
economic reforms enacted in recent years have generated severe financial
difficulties for firms which could not adjust rapidly and are reflected in the
portfolio of banks as non-performing loans. The third area concerns the
e eR



- 9 -
rationalization of interest rate policies to reduce subsidies through
preferential credits and also reduce currency substitution. The fourth area
relates to the need to further develop the money and capital markets, by
removing impediments to an orderly growth of the market, the most important
being the lack of external auditing of firms selling securities."' Steady,
but uneven progress has been made in each of these areas over the past year.
2.24     Linkages with FSAL II.  Consistent with the financial sector reform
program agreed under FSAL II, the participating credit institutions under the
project were appraised within the general framework of the 1988 Financial
Sector Policies of the Govervment. The major financial sector reforms under
FSAL II are contained in new decrees which have (a) established improved
guidelines for banks in loan classification, income recognition and loan loss
provisioning; and (b) laid down instructions on treatment of non-performing
assets and restructuring of public sector banks. A third decree is expected
to be issued shortly that would set out new standards for capital adequacy,
risk and exposure levels and lending limits. Through conditions of
participation and financial covenants, the project would ensure that a PCI
would be allowed to participate in the project only if it complies with the
provisions of these decrees. Beyond compliance with the decrees, the project
strongly complements the financial sector adjustment effort at the
institutional level, and assists the participating credit institutions in
defining policies and business strategies; in strengthening operating policies
and procedures and information systems; in improving project appraisal and
supervision; in enhancing procurement and disbursement procedures; and in
raising their reportinr accounting and auditing practices to internationally
acceptable standards.
2.25     Industrial Lending Rates and Inflation.  Under FSAL II, the
Government reconfirmed its commitment to liberalization of lending rates,
except for selective czedits that will continue to enjoy preferential rates.
The volume of selective credits is to be reduced further and their interest
rates are to be raised to positive real levels. By the second tranche release
of FSAL II, positive real rates are supposed to be achieved for selective
credits to the productive sectors. (The agreed index for determining positive
real rates is the weighted average cf the change in the wholesale price index
in the past 12 months and of the expected change in the next twelve months.
Inflation in 1988 at the wholesale level was 70X, while the expected inflation
in 1989 is 50X). For industry, short term working capical loans are available
only at market rates (currently around 1202) which are at very high real
levels due mainly to the large fiscal deficit (para 3.02). Long term
investment loans are available mainly from external sources under the Foreign
Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS). While a local source has also been
available under the Central Bank rediscounting scheme, it has been greatly
reduced to date.
2.26     FERIS was introduced in 1985 as a temporary measure to encourage
investments by providing some stability to long term financing at a time of
high inflation, high real interest rates, and rapid devaluation on the one
hand, and high capacity utilization in the industrial sector, on the other.
Subloans have carried a fixed rate and a fixed maturity of 8 years without a
' See the President's Report, FSAL II.



- 10 -
prepayment option. Over half of the interest during a three-year grace period
was capitalized. The fixed FERIS rate has been reviewed semi-annually, with
the view to reflecting movements in inflation. Relative to the distorted
level of market interest rates, the FERIS rate has implied a subsidy, which
together with other industrial investment incentives, aims at stimulating
industrial investments and minimizing resource movements into non-tradables
under inflationary conditions. The FERIS rate in the 2ast year has been set
effectively at about 50% (with semi-annual compounding). While the FERIS rate
is expected to result in a positive real rate of about 42 based on the Ban, s
current inflation projections for Turkey for the next 8 years, the rate has
turned negative since the latter half of 1988 relative to the agreed index for
positive rates (para 2.25). Moreover, FERIS as a scheme continues to be
vulnerable. Should inflation continue unabated, FERIS could prove costly to
the Government. On the other hand should i-flation decline, large number of
sub-borrowers, locked into high real rates, could wilfullv or unwilfully
default, aggravating distress in the financial system, or force prepayment,
passing on losses to FERIS.
2.27     Since the conditions that led to the establishment of FERIS still
hold today, the Government's view is that it is not yet time to abolish FERIS
despite the risks cited above. However, to minimize these risks for both the
Gcvernment and sub-borrowers, the Government has decided to abolish the fixed
rate scheme and move completely to a variable rate system. The variable rate
would be adjusted automatically on a quarterly basis and to the average
3-month Treasury Bill rate in the preceding three months. Two-third of the
interest during a grace period of three years would be allowed to be
capitalized but would be compounded to keep the effective rate at the nominal
rate level. Based on the Treasury Bill rates of the past three months, the
!            initial rate would be about 68% p.a.  This system is expected not only to
generate positive real rates but also rates reflective of market conditions.
This action by the Government is expected to be taken before loan signing but
is currently reflected in the loan agreement as a condition of effectiveness
(para 7.01b).
III. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy
3.01     The Bank's strategy for industrial lending to Turkey is to help to:
a) achieve its "base case" macroeconomic f:amework by focusing on priority
macro-sectoral linkages, and b) strengthen international competitiveness of
its industrial sector by selecting export and technological development as the
critical agenda for the long term.
3.02     The growth of Turkey's industrial exports is critical to enhance its
creditworthiness and help meet its foreign debt service obligations. Since
many sub-sectors of industry have reached high levels of capacity utilization
and investment levels are relatively low, private sector investments need to
be revitalized in order to maintain export growth. In other sub-sectors with
some excess capacity, lack of working capital has constrained greater capacity
utilization. To increase investments and capacity utilization, high real
lending rates have to be reduced, since they are a major factor inhibiting the
financing of investments and operations by the banking system. The reduction
of real interest rates will require: (i) a reduction in the level of
Government borrowings since they crowd out private borrowings; (ii) a reduction
0 346P



- 11 -
in the high levels of liquidity reserve requirements of the banking system
that contribute to a high spread between deposit and lending rates; and (iii)
a -eduction in the cost of operations of the banking system. The reduction of
Government borrowings and reserve requirements can only be achieved by
reducing the size of the Government fiscal deficit. Macroeconomic adjustment
is, therefore, an item of high priority in the Bank's dialogue with the
Government and is a central item in the Government's letter of macroeconomic
policy. The reduction of the cost of operations of the banking system would
require a rationalization of the operations of the banks and a reduction of
the high cost of non-performing assets. These problems are being addressed
for the financial sector as a whole under the ongoing Second Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan and for individual financial institutions under ongoing credit
line operations; such efforts will continue under the proposed project (paras
2.23-2.24). Future financial intermediation operations would continue to
assist the creation of stronger banks and a more competitive banking system.
Moreover, these operations would be designed to enhance financial sector
diversification through the promotion ot innovative financial instruments and
institutions.
3.03     Within an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic framework, a stronger
and more diversified financial sector would facilitate a quicker and more
effective structural adjustment of the industrial sector. Under a
policy-based operation which the Bank proposes to support, Turkey would effect
a medium-term program for industrial sector adjustment with a focus on trade
and industrial pclicy reforms, in view of its plans to join the European
Community (EC), and proposes to privatize more of its state enterprises in
manufacturing, and further reduce the sector's reliance on the budget. In the
context of such a policy framework, financial intermediation operations would
continue to accelerate the growth of dynamic and export-oriented private
industry that can realize new business opportunities in a more competitive
environment at home and in the context of the EC. To further assist such
industrial transformation, a technology development operation, which may be
supported by the Bank, would accelerate technological change in private
industry, by financing R&D subject to market discipline and effective
technology transfer and diffusion projects, and by establishing technology
policy and institutions suited for the new age.
B. Past SMI Projects
3.04     The Labor Intensive Project.  Loan 1952-TU of US$40 million which
became effective in June 1981 financed the Bank's first SMI project in
Turkey. The objectives of this project were to assist in alleviating urban
unemployment by focusing on labor-intensive industries; to increase SMI's
access to credit by using commercial bank branches as agents for receiving
loan applications; and to provide technical assistance and consultancy
services to sub-borrowers. To ensure credit access by smaller units, at least
one third of the loan was earmarked for enterprises with assets (excluding
land and buildings) not exceeding US$350,000 for new sub-projects and
US$500,000 for expansion sub-projects. Furthermore, the Government decided to
assist SSI sub-borrowers by assuming the foreign exchange risk of their
subloans.
3.05     Loan utilization was slower than anticipated, mainly due to the
reluctance of medium-size firms to bear the foreign exchange risk. However,
after the introduction of FERIS, undet which the Govermnment assumed the



- 12 -
foreign exchange risk for all sub-borrowers regardless of size, the loan was
quickly committed and disbursed (paras 2.26-2.27). SYKB financed 114
sub-projects which created about 5,600 new jobs at an average cost per job of
about US$10,000. The number of jobs created was higher than the anticipated
figure of 5,000 and the cost per job was lower than the ceiling of US$15,000.
About 64% of the loan amount went to smaller units, twice the target amount.
The major industrial sub-sectors financed were: textiles, food and beverages,
metal products, and machinery and electrical equipment, which experienced
rapid growth in this period.
3.06     The other important objectives of the project were not achieved as
successfully. Being a development finance institution, SYKB does not have the
branch network of a commercial bank. In order to reach a greater number of
clients outside of the greater Istanbul area, particularly SMI sub-borrowers
in secondary urban areas, the plan was to utilize the branch network of the
commercial banks which are stockholders of SYKB. These commercial banks were
to act as agents for SYKB in identifying, screening, and referring clients.
In return, SYKB was to compensate the commercial banks through a one-time
commission of 1.5Z of the subloan amount. The plan did not materialize since
the commercial bank branches were more interested in their own lending and
other operations, and much less in the promotion of term lending for SYKB.
Throughout the 1981-1985 period SYKB received less than five referrals.
3.07     The technical assistance fund established under the project was to
provide training and technical assistance to sub-borrowers. This component
also did not achieve its objective as expected. Only 23 sub-borrowers took
advantage of this fund, partly because of lack of appreciation by SMI of the
advantages of consultancy services and partly because of lack of promotion of
the fund by SYKB. Being a financial institution, SYKB focused more on the
credit program rather than the technical assistance fund.
3.08     The Small and Medium Scale Industry Proiect (SMI I).  Loan 2647-TU of
US$100 million which btcame effective in May 1986 was designed to further the
initiatives started under the first project by including, in addition to SYKB,
Halk Bank (HB), a commercial bank with a wide branch network and by assigning
technical assistance to an agency which would focus full-time on this aspect
of SMI assistance. Overall loan utilization has been satisfactory with the
credit component already fully committed and about US$83 million disbursed as
of February 28, 1989, ahead of schedule. Sub-projects assisted under the loan
are expected to create about 18,000 jobs at an average cost of US$9,600, lower
than under the first project as more smaller labor intensive units have been
firanced through the participation of a commercial bank.
3.09     With FERIS still in effect, SYKB's portion of the SMI loan has been
committed and disbursed at a rapid rate. As of February 1989, SYKB had
approved 165 sub-projects for a total amount of US$80 million and had
disbursed to them US$65 million. However, due to SYKB's lack of branches the
majority of these sub-projects (about 80Z) are located in the developed areas
such as Istanbul, Izmir, Bursa, and Tekirdag, with 17% in semi-developed areas
and 3% in under-developed areas. Because of location, the majority of these
sub-projects are medium-scale projects (68%). The major industrial
sub-sectors financed continue to be textiles, chemicals, machinery, food,
metal products, and marble industries.
n3 FR



- 13 -
3.10     This first Bank loan for HB consisted of two components: (i) a credit
line of US$18.4 million, and (ii) technical assistance for training and for
organizational improvements (US$350,000). HB's utilization of the credit line
portion of the loan was initially slow since it was new to Bank procedures,
but has improved considerably since the end of 1987. As of February 28, 1989,
the credit line had been fully committed and disbursements stood at US$12
million. To date, HB has financed 241 sub-projects with another 43
sub-projects in the pipeline at different stages of processing. HB expects
the credit line to be fully disbursed by the end of FY89. HB has fully
utilized its training fund and has made certain appropriate organizational
changes. Further strengthening of HB's capability as a channel for SMI
finance is included in the proposed project.
3.11     One of the major objectives of this loan was to provide more
comprehensive technical assistance to SMI by using SIDO as the implementing
agency. SIDO is the only Government agency responsible exclusively for
providing promotional and extension services to SMI. Technical assistance was
also provided to SIDO itself to strengthen its organizational structure and
capability to carry out its role. To improve its effectiveness, SIDO was
expected to expand its extension services for SMI. During the 1986-1988
period, SIDO opened branches in Istanbul, Bursa, Konya, and Adana. SIDO plans
to open additional branches in Izmir, Malatya and Eskisehir which are
important centers of SMI activity. Beyond these steps, however, SIDO has not
been able to carry out the role envisioned for it under the project. SIDO
continues to suffer from structural problems due to its public sector stature
which prevents it from providing the full range of services needed by SMI.
Under the proposed project, the channels for technical assistance would be
expanded by including private sector organizations (para 3.13).
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.12     While the two previous projects assisted by the Bank have helped
increase SMI's access to financial, technical and marketing assistance, the
institutional mechanisms that can deliver these services effectively have to
be expanded and improved to enable SMI to reach its potential. Financial
institutions are not yet fully equipped to handle SMI lending and are still
averse to financing SMI units due to perceptions of higher risks associated
with lending to this sector and higher administrative costs associated with
smaller loans. Hence, equity financing and informal credit sources at very
high costs continue to be the major source of financing for SMI. The Bank's
continued assistance is needed to assure adequate long-term funds for existing
and other financial institutions to expand their SMI portfolio, and also as a
means of providing technical assistance to make them more effective and
efficient at SMI financing.
3.13     In the area of technology and export marketing services for SMI, the
project would assist in improving the public sector institutions in providing
technical and marketing services more effectively. However, there are areas
where public sector agencies have inherent shortcomings and are not capable of
delivering the required services effectively. The Bank under the proposed
n- -I



- 14 -
project aims to catalyze efforts in developing alternative private sector
mechanisms which can effectively complement the programs being undertaken by
the public sector agencies (paras. 4.16 - 4.23).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.01     By pursuing the initiatives started under past SMI projects and
modifying approaches in response to lessons learned, the propoeed project aims
at expanding and improving assistance for the SMI sector to enable it to
increase output, exports and job opportunities in line with its potential.
Specifically, the objectives of the project are to:
a)   promote and support efficient SMI investments and operations;
b'   improve SMI's access to credit by increasing the number of fir-ncial
institutions which can serve as efficient intermediaries for SMI
finance;
c)   assist the SMI sector to improve product quality and compete in local
and export markets by providing technical and marketing services; and
d)   enhance policy making for the SMI sector through more reliable
*    statistics.
4.02     Definition of SMI.  Under the proposed project, the definition of SMI
would be the same as under SMI II after taking into account inflation and
exchange rate movements, since most imported equipment and machinery for
Turkish SMIs are from currently strong currency countries. With this
definition, 78% of total private industrial firms in the formal sector would
fall under the category of small scale industries (SSI) and 112 would be in
the category of medium scale industries (MSI) (para 2.12). This distribution
is similar to that of most developing economies. Since different institutions
use different d, inition criteria, the definition under the project would
allow the use of either criterion:
a)   Small-Scale Industries - (i) For the PCIs, the definition would use
the asset criterion since this is operationally more convenient for
them; an SSI firm is defined as an enterprise whose fiKed assets
excluding land and buildings in book value amount to US$800,000 or
below; and (ii) for technical assistance institutions which may not
have access to a client's financial statements, the definition would
be on the basis of labor force size, i.e., an enterprise with 50
workers or less; and
b)   Medium-Scale Industries - (i) For the PCIs, US$800,000 - US$4.0
million in fixed assets excluding land and buildings in book value,
and (ii) for technical assistance institutions, 51 up to 100 workers.
4.03     In order to encourage expansion and growth of existing enterprises,
these definitions would be applied for existing enterprises on a
pre-investment basis so that sub-project sizes would not be artificially



- 15 -
tailored to meet the definitions. However, once an enterprise exceeds the
cut-off limits, it would become ineligible for another subloan under this
project and would have, in effecL, graduated from the SMI sector. On the
other hand, to ensure that smaller units have sufficient access to subloans
under this project, 302 of the proposed loan would be reserved for subloans to
SSIs only (para 4.12 c).
4.04     Informal Sector.  Since the project will not stipulate a minimum
sub-project or subloan size, it could cover the informal industrial sector as
well. However, the project is principally designed to address the needs of
the formal SMI sector which are different from those of the informal sector.
The institutional channels for assistance to the informal sector usually are
not the formal credit channels.
4.05     Proiect Components.  The proposed project would have the following
components:
(a) credit lines to the participating credit institutions for onlending
to SMI sub-projects which are finantcially and economically viable for
fixed investment and permanent working capital;
(b) technical assistance to the participating credit institutions to
improve their project appraisal and supervision capability, and their
information systems and operating procedures related to SMI financing
operations;
(c) technical and marketing support services for SMIs to improve product
quality and expand their local and export markets; and
(d) technical assistance to improve SMI data collection, processing and
analysis to improve their accuracy and reliability for future policy
and project formulation.
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.06     The proposed project is estimated to cost US$506 million, of which
the Bank would finance US$204.5 million, or about 40%. SMI credit demand
projections in FY 89-91 are given in Annex 2 and show that the Bank Loan would
contribute about 25Z of the foreign exchange requirements of the entire SMI
sub-sector in this period. Bank financing would be used for the credit
component of the project to finance subloans for viable SMI sub-projects.  The
subloans would finance about 502 of sub-project cost while sub-project
sponsors would contribute the other 502 as equity.  The participating credit
institutions are expected to support the sub-projects also with short term
working capital loans from internal resources, amounting to about US$100
mill:in equivalent. A portion of the Bank loan amounting to about US$4.n
million would be used to finance the direct costs of the technical assistance
components. The Government, through regular budgetary allocations to the
implementing public sector agencies concerned, private sector participants and
the PCIs would cover all indirect local administrative and staff costs
estimated at *.bout US$1.5 million. The components, cost estimates and
financing sources are summArized below:



- 16 -
(US$ million)
Private
Bank       GOT        PCI       Sector    Total
A.  Credit Component             200.00       -        100.00    200.00    500.00
B. Technical Assistance a/
1. Export Promotion                1.50      -           -         0.50       2.00
2. Quality Control                 1.00     0.25         -           -        1.25
3. SMI Statistics                  0.50     0.25         -           -        0.75
4. Training and
Consultancy for PCI           1.50      -           0.50        -        2.00
Subtotal                           4.50     0.50         0.50       0.50      6.00
C.  Grand Total  b/              204.50     0.50       100.50    200.50    506.00
===           ===_==
a/ Including contingencies
bI Including taxes
C. Credit Component
4.07     Participating Credit Institutions.  The proposed project aims at
improving credit access for SMIs by increasing the number of financial
intermediaries providing SMI finance, improving the efficiency of these
institutions through technical assistance, and increasing competition among
institutions to encourage them to proviae better banking services. In
selecting the PCIs for this project, appraisal was carried out within the
framework of the new financial sector policies of the Government. In March
1988, the Government announced its financial sector policies, agreed under
FSAL II, which aim, among others, at improving the health of the banking
system. This was followed by two decrees, one of which tightens criteria used
by banks in loan classification, loan provisioning and income recognition; and
the other sets guidelines for the treatment of non-performing loans and the
restructuring of public sector banks burdened with portfolio problems. A
third decree is in preparation which would establish new standards for capital
adequacy and risk exposure limits of banks. Under the decree on loan
provisioning, the banks are given two years between March 1988 and March 1990
to fully provide for bad loans as defined in the new decree. This process is
under way, but has not yet been completed.
4.08     Five financial institutions were evaluated as potential participants
in the proposed project during pre-appraisal in June 1988: two development
finance institutions (SYKB and TKB) and three commercial banks (Emlak, Halk
and Vakiflar). At that time it was made clear to them and to the Government
that each financial institution would be appraised in the light of the 1988
financial sector policies and the two decrees promulgated by the Government;
and that the appraisal mission would also take into account the anticipated
requirements of the forthcoming decree on capital adequacy. At the time of
appraisal, the process of implementing the decree was in the initial stages.
0 3460



- 17 -
The PCIs placed their first priority on identifying the loans in the portfolio
which were not performing eccording to the current payment schedule, and made
provisions for these, in some cases, in advance of the schedule required under
the decree. The other key step, identifying performing loans and off balance
sheet items but with borrowers who are no longer creditworthy, is a procedure
very new to the Turkish banking system and requires a full review of all
borrowers. This step had not yet been completed by appraisal. At appraisal,
initial estimates of the required provisions on the basis of loss of
creditworthiness were made on an aggregate basis. This estimatc will then be
refined as the PCIs complete the required review of creditworthiness of all
their borrowers, which will take place over the next few months. Bank
supervision of the loan will monitor progress in this regard and will guide
the PCIs In developing creditworthiness assessment as one of their key tools
for managing portfolio risk.
4.09     Due to strong objections from the banking sector on the provisioning
decree, the Government issued, in October 1988, a communique to amend the
decree. Among others, the major changes would allow the banks to: i)
reschedule bad loans and postpone the requirement for additional provisions
until the rescheduled loans go into default again; and ii) postpone
provisioning on uncreditworthy non-cash credits. Considering the material
change this amendment made on prior agreements with the Government, the
appraisal mission disregarded the amendments to the decree in appraising the
banks. On this basis and other standard appraisal criteria, HB, SYKB and
Vakiflar Bank (VB) have been found to qualify to participate in the proposed
project. Emlak Bank (EB) would qualify only after it shall have made adequate
provisions for its non-performing loans satisfactory to the Bank. On February
3, 1989, TKB took over the entire assets and staff of another public sector
development bank for the tourism sector (the lourism Bank). Since it will
take at least 6 months for TKB to complete the take over, it was agreed that
TKB would be reconsidered for participation in the project at that time. TKB
would be re-appraised and the cjnditions of its participation in this project
wouid be formulated after appraisal.  Annex 3 summarizes t..he major appraisal
findings on the four financial institutions and the main conditions for their
participation. More detailed appraisals are available in the project files.
4.10     Loan Allocation.  The credit line would be divided such that each PCI
would have an initial pre-allocated amount of USt5M million. Should TKB
qualify as a PCI within 12 months of loan signirng, equal amounts from each of
the four PCIs would be reallocated to TKB. Each PCI would be given 21 months
from loan signing to utilize its pre-allocated amount. At that time, the Bank
would review loan utilization by the PCIs and on the basis of past performance
and future prospects, re-allocate the Loan among the PCIs. This arrangement
is designed to encourage competition among the PCIs while recognizing the fact
that some PCIs have had longer experience with SMI lending and with Bank
operations and, therefore, would have an initial advantage over others.
4.11     Sub-project Eligibility Criteria.  An enterprise would be eligible
for a subloan under the proposed project if it is a small or medium-scale
enterprise as defined in para 4.02, is privately owned and is engaged or is
intending to engage in manufacturing, repair, processing, industrial service,
mining or tourism. An eligible enterprise can apply for the financing of a
sub-project which could involve establishment, expansion, balancing,
modernization or replacement proposals which are financially and economically



- 18 -
viable. The maximum debt:equity ratio for the sub-project would be 50:50, as
required under FERIS. After a subloan, the owners/stockholders of an
enterprise must have a minimum equity investment of 40% of the enterprise's
assets in terms of capital, subordinated loans or retained earnings.
Sub-projects financed under the project must meet the environmental protection
requirements of the Government. Sub-project appraisals would assess
compliance with environmental regulations as well as safety and health
standards. The Bank has provided to the PCIs guidelines covering various
aspects of environmental protection to assist them in assessing sub-projects
in this regard.
4.12     Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Sublending terms and conditions would
be similar to those under SMI I but modified in response to lessons learned in
past projects:
(a) subloans are for fixed investment or permanent working capital
purposes only since they should not be used to substitute for
short-term working capital loans which the PCIs can provide from
internal resources;
(b) the maximum subloan would be US$3.0 million equivalent per enterprise
in order to spread the loan to a greater number of SMI enterprises;
(c) at least 302 if the amouncs disbursed by each PCI should be for
subloans to SSis as defined in para 4.02 (para 4.03);
(d)  the final lending rate to st-b-borrowers would be the variable FERIS
rate which would be adjusted automatically to the average of the
3-month Treasury Bill rate in the preceding three months on a
quarterly basis; two-third of the interest during a grace period of
three years may be capitalized but would have to be compounded to
prevent an erosion of the effective rate;
(e) Bank finds may be used to finance 1002 of the CIF cost of imported
equipment and materials, 702 of imported but locally purchased
equipment and materials (to factor out taxes), 502 of the ex-factory
cost of locally produced equipment and materials (to cover the cost
of its imported components) and 302 of civil works but only for
tourism sub-projects. Otherwise, Bank funds would not be used to
finance the cost of land or buildings;
(f) subloan maturities would be for eight years including a grace period
of up to 36 months to match their long term uses and in accordance
with FERIS rules;
(g) subloans which have not been disbursed, even partially, six months
after authorization by the Bank would be automatically cancelled to
free up amounts for commitment to other sub-borrowers;
(h) sub-borrowers would be allowed to inquire and apply for a subloan in
more than one PCI to enable them to shop around for the best banking
service; however, once they have formally requested loan processing
they would be required to pay an appraisal fee of 0.12 of the subloan
amount but not to exceed TL 10 million for each appraisal to



- 19 -
discourage appraisal of the same sub-project by more than one PCI and
to compensate a PCI for appraisal costs should sub-borrowers ask for
loan processing by more than one PCI; and
(i) sub-borrowers would be required to pay a commitment fee of 0.75% to
compensate PCIs for the commitment fees paid on their subsidiary
loans.
4.13     Sub-project Processing and Free Limits.  Sub-project appraisal and
subloan processing would follow procedures which would vary depending on
whether a subloan is a free limit subloan or above the free limit. For a free
limit subloan, the PCI would have to furnish to the Bank a summary descrip-
tion of t.ie sub-project, including the expenditures proposed to be financed by
the Bank; the proposed terms and conditions of the subloan; and a certifi-
cation that the sub-project eligibility criteria and the subloan terms and
conditions under the project have been met. For subloans above the free
limit, the PCI would have to submit an appraisal of the sub-project, including
the expenditures to be financed by the Bank; the terms and conditions of the
subloan; and a certification that the sub-project el:gibility criteria and
subloan terms and conditions under the project have been met. Since this will
be its first time to participate in a Bank operation, Emlak Bank would be
given a free limit cut-off amount only after it has submitted its first five
sub-projects. Halk Bank would have a free limit of US$700,000. Vakiflar Bank
and SYKB would have a free limit of US$2.5 million.
4.14     Technical Assistance for the PCIs.  Under the project, technical
assistance funds amounting to US$1.5 million would be provided to assist the
PCIs in general institution strengthening, with particular focus on improving
their appraisal and supervision methods, systems and procedures, through staff
training and soft and hardware improvements. Details of their technical
assistance needs were discussed during appraisal and are found in the
appraisals of the PCIs in the project files. Since the total requirements
exceed the allocation of US$1.5 million, as a means of rationing the funds
under this project, disburqement of these funds would be made on the basis of
detailed proposals by each PCI, taking into account factors such as equitable
distribution among the PCIs, relevance of the proposals to SMI operations, and
provision of matching funds by the PCIs.
D. Technical Assistance Components for SMIs
4.15     Effective promotion of SMI consists not only of improving access to
credit but also of developing and improving sector-wide complementary services
in technology, marketing and other areas. Lacking specialized departments or
personnel, SMI firms normally do not find it cost effective or do not have the
time tc invest in marketing programs, product development or other information
systems beyond what they need on a day-to-day basis. Given these inherent
constraints, the proposed project seeks to assist the SMI sector enhance
efficiency and competitiveness by providing assistance in the areas of quality
contro' and export marketing.  Improvements in these areas will enhance the
operations of SMI firms receiving assistance and provide significant external
benefits to the SMI sector as a whole.



- 20 -
E. Export Promotion Component
4.16     Export Potential of SMI.  Despite Turkey's close proximity to its
main export markets, exporting directly is difficult for SMI firms as most
lazk the resources, know-how and expertise to obtain current market infor-
mation and develop distribution channels. IGEME has been, to a great extent,
a passive export promotion agency, primarily engaged in promoting trade fairs,
publishing information on Turkish products, exporters, and foreign trade
regulations and, for some clients, providing limited market intelligence about
foreign markets. Under the Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP) a
component was included to bolster the service delivery of IGEME, but has yet
to be implemented. SIDO also has developed an export promotion program funded
through SMI I which targets around 50 pre-selected firms per year considered
(by SIDO) to have export potential. Although SIDO's export promotion
activities are only now beginning, their targeted case-by-case approach does
not seam to have the promise of a significant economy-wide impact in the short
term.
4.17     Export Trading Companies in Turkey.  One of the most effective
channels for the promotion of SMI exports are the ETCs. The export boom in
Turkey during the 1980s was accompanied by a surge in the use of ETCs. In
1981, the share of exports by ETCs in total exports was only 9X. In 1987, 30
ETCs accounted for more thini half of total exports, with a significant
proportion of ETC exports coming from SMI. In addition to scale advantages, a
number of factors contributed to the growing use of ETCs in Turkey: (i) since
nearly all exports to Middle East countries are imported by state trading
organizations, Turkish ETCs are best suited to fill the large orders of
numerous types of products; (ii) ETCs are permitted to deal in counter-trade,
which, because of oil and gas imports from the Soviet Union, became a
significant form of exporting in the 1980s; and (iii) the exports incentives
system favored large exporters, and encouraged a significant amount of "pass
through" exporting (para 2.15).
4.18     ETCs in Tur_.y were supposed to resemble the large Japanese and
Korean general trading comp-nies (GTC) which export a wide variety of mostly
standardized manufactures and engage in a number of activities, including
importing, domestic sales, counter trade, financi..g and foreign investment.
Generally, two types of ETCs have developed in Turkey, such as RAM or EDPA,
the exporting arms of large holding companies which may not be profit
maximizing, and independent profit-making enterprises like TEKFAN, PENTA and
ENKA which export numerous products and develop linkages with domestic
suppliers. Altho-igh these independent ETCs are the traditional exporters of
SMI products, trading arms of holding companies are now also seeking suppliers
outside of their sister companies. Up until now, Turkish ETCs have not been
providing the export value added and aggressive marketing effort normally
associated with Asian ETCs, since the export subsidy system in Turkey provided
a financial incentive for producers to utilize an ETC. In anticipation of
reforms in the export promotion system, Turkish ETCs recognize the need to
develop alternative types of exporting arrangements and expand their service
delivery capacity. The Asian experience, where there are multiple linkages
between export trading companies and manufacturers, shows that for Turkey's
ETCs to prove viable for the long-term, they must continue the development
toward aggressive multi-service entities and engage in all facets of their
supplier's business including the channelling of technological information,



- 21 -
the financing and importing of raw materials, paekaging, storing, and
marketing of final goods and even investing in their equity. The development
of the Domestic Letter of Credit scheme and the law for ETCs should help to
support the continued development of ETC-supplier relationship (para 2.16).
4.19     As the result of recent payment problems in important Middle East
markets, an immediate need of ETCs is to deepen and widen penetration in new
industrialized markets. Specifically, exports to Iraq are being substantially
cut back and now even require licensing due to over US$2 billion in overdue
payments on an official line of credit. Exporters are also experiencing
payment problems from other important markets, such as Algeria and Iran. The
prospect of losing the easy export conditions in the Middle East markets which
boosted Turkish exports in the 1980s, namely strong domestic demand from oil
revenues, modect requirements on quality, technology and pricing, minimal
marketing efforts, and generous official credit to Iraq, are leading ETCs to
investigate new markets and products. The nature of Turkey's comparative
advantage with OECD countries is that labor intensive products from the SMI
sector will be well suited to penetrate new, industrialized markets.
4.20     Technical Assistance Program for Export Trading Companies
Administered by the Ex-Im Bank. This component of the technical assistance
program is intended to help realize the export potential of the SMI sector by
bringing professional marketing consultants (e.g. professional buyers from
foreign retail chains) to Turkey who specialize in SMI product areas and can
assist ETCs and their supplier firms in product development. The program will
also increase familiarity and cooperation among organizations involved with
various facets of SMI exporting, specifically SIDO, IGEME, the Foreign Trade
Association of Turkey (TURKTRADE), the Ex-Im Bank and the ETCs themselves.
Despite the importance of ETCs to SMI export prospects, these agencies are
jointly involved in surprisingly few integrated programs aimed at
strengthening links between producers and ETCs. Finally, the program will
provide additional positive externalities, by introducing Turkey as a
potential supplier to the marketing consultants.
4.21     The technical assistance program would assist export trading
companies expand the exports of SMI products to new markets. It would be
administered by the Ex-Im Bank, in conjunction with IGEME. Representatives
from Ex-Im Bank, TURKTRADE, IGEME and SIDO will be represented %'i a working
level management committee which will develop disbursement policy and advise
of project development and approval. The program will run for three years
but, given that infrastructure and experience will have been developed, it is
envisaged that the program would continue beyond the technical assistance as
ETCs find this to be a cost-effective method of market development.
4.22     General Principles.  The intention of this component is to finance
consultants specializing in product lines predominantly produced by firms in
the SMI sector. It would finance part of the cost of hiring specialized
market consultants to come to Turkey for 1-2 months. The consultants should
be professional buyers borrowed from wholesale or retail firms in the targeted
ifiarket in order to bring expertise and information about market demands and
product specification directly to manufacturing firms in Turkey's SMI sector.
The consultants would work with ETCs and their domestic suppliers to develop
their product design and export competitiveness. To ensure an active interest
in the program, ETCs themselves would be expected to pay for part of the cost
0346R



- 22 -
of the consultants. Since the proposed operations should be of interest to a
umber of export houses it is likely that the consultant would be shared
qcross a number of ETCs so that the benefits can ultimately reach as many
.irms as possible. If suitable projects could be developed, the consultants
themselves could theoretically be eventually available to smaller exporters
which are not formal ETCs but also export SMI products. The proposed
management committee, the responsibilities of the administering agency, and
suggested guidelines for project approval were prepared and finalized at
appraisal.
4.23     Costs.  The total cost of the export promotion component is estimated
at approximately US$2.0 million over three years. Of that, the establishment
and operational costs in the Ex-Im Bank is estirated to cost U3$300,000.
Assuming US$20,000 per man-month for a market consultant, an average of two
months spent per project, and 14 consultants per year (based on an estimate of
the number of interested ETCs and their perceived absorption capacity), the
total cost of the fund will be US$1.7 million, to which the ETCs would
contribute about US$0.5 million. The Bank loan would finance the balance of
US$1.5 million.
F. Quality Improvement Component
4.24     Background.  Although the TSE provides a service to all Turkish
industry for the achievement of quality standards, there is a need to develop
this service in such a way as to make it more accessible to small and medium
scale enterprises. Presently, TSE's approach has been to certify companies
which have attained quality levels on their own. Invariably, these have been
large companies with the resources to reach acceptable standards without
external assistance. A different approach is needed for SMI not because
standards are different for small firms but because the importance of high
quality as a means of securing higher prices and profits is less obvious to
small scale manufacturers. The loss of some Middle East markets, which have
had few quality restrictions, and the need to seek new markets in Europe,
makes the question of quality improvement of even greater importance for
exporting companies.  This component would combine the resources of SIDO and
TSE to ensure that it has both a strong orientation towards small firms and,
at the same time, conforms to national standards.  Added benefits would come
from bringing the two agencies into a closer working relationship than exists
at present.
4.25     Objectives.  The objectives of this technical component are: (i) to
promote to SMI the benefits of operating to recognized standards; (ii) to
identify companies which are motivated and can profit from improved standards;
(iii) to assess the current operating levels of companies in order to advise
on improvements; and (iv) to provide certification of companies which reach
the required operating standard. This component would: (i) train a special
group within TSE in the approaches used in other countries with successful
programs; (ii) produce promotional literature and advertising to bring the
program to the attention of industry; (iii) publicize the program so as to
make it attractive to participating companies; (iv) hold regional seminars and
workshops on quality improvement, using mobile testing equipment when
appropriate; (v) follow up with company visits and in-company assistance; and
(vi) publicize the names of successful companies to large firms and overseas
buyers in a special buyers' guide.
0 34SR



- 23 -
4.26     Institutional Arrangements.  The scheme would operate within TSE
under TSE management. In order to promote close cooperation with SIDO some
personnel would be seconded to TSE for the duration of the prugram. The
program would be centered in Ankara but would also be operated through TSE
offices in other centers.  There would be a joint management committee for tbh 
project comprising the Director and one other staff member from SIDO and two
members from TSE. A memorandum of cooperation has been drawn up and agreed
between the two agencies and was finalized at appraisal.
4.27     Costs.  The project would require about eight people, four of whom
would be seconded frjm SIDO. Costs would include overseas training, the use
of foreign advisors and a substantial print and advertising budget.  For a
three year program the total cost would be about US$1.25 million, of which
US$0.25 million in administrative overhead would be met by the implementing
agencies. The Bank loan would finance the direct costs of US$1.0 million.
G.  SMI Sector Statistics
4.28     Background.  There is a conspicuous lack of statistical and
analytical information on the SMI sector. Each institution which collects
data on SMI firms (SIS, SIDO, Halk Bank) uses a different definition,
preventing a consistent analysis of the sector. The official SIS statistics
are derived from a census of manufactures which is carried out every five
years with a two to three-year lag for pub'lication. The survey technique,
instrument and coverage has changed significantly for each survey, making the
time series inconsistent ar.d unreliable. Accompanying the limited statistical
information is a dearth of analytical studies. Therefore, apart from
anecdotal evidence and isolated plant visits, there is no way to gauge the
performance of SMI units on their own, in relation to their larger
counterparts in the same sub-sector, or in comparison to the SMI sector in
other countries. There are also questions regarding the reliability, coverage
and timeliness of the resulting output of the surveys. Studies using SIS and
ISO firm level data, carried out by the Bosphorous University as one example
and another ongoing at the World Bank have attempted to examine various types
of productivity and efficiency indicators. The results of these studies have
been hindered by inconsistencies and gaps in the dataset. This lack of basic
statistics on the structure and performance of the SMI sector naturally
hinders effective policy formulation for the sector. In contrast to the
extensive analysis available on the top 500 firms in Turkey, there is a need
to obtain data on the export performance, capital and labor productivity,
capacity utilization and other performance indicators for the industrial
sector as a whole, with emphasis on the relative position of tie SMI sector.
4.29     Objectives and Scope.  In order to help improve the statistical
database on the SMI sector in Turkey, a component is being proposed for SIS to
institutionalize rn annual survey of manufacturing industries which will
collect performance and structure data, stratified according to various size
definitions (e.g. number employed, fixed capital, etc.). The program will
provide three years of financing for SIS to: (i) employ consultants to develop
the survey instruments and the survey methodology, including the establishment
of the universe, the sampling frame and the survey procedure; (ii) hire
interviewers to follow up the mailed questionnaires; (iii) process and publish
the data; (iv) develop a system whereby the raw data can easily be provided in
a "diskette format" on request, and (v) train SIS staff to institutionalize
0346R



- 24 -
the program within SIS. The objective of the survey will be to establish a
timely information base to enable better policy making toward the SMI sector.
To do so, information on capital stock, investment, markets for inputs and
outputs, and profitability is required, none of which is currently available
from present survey exercises. From the information obtained from the
proposed survey, a better picture will be obtained of SMI structure and
performance in terms of import and capital intensity, labor, capital and total
productivity, market structure and industrial otganization, export orientation
and competitiveness and other indicators necessary to evaluate Turkey's SMI
sector within the domestic industrial sector as a whole and in comparison to
SMI sectors in other countries.
4.30     Program Design and Costs.  The program will involve the financing of
three years of consultants, processing and computer costs, the survey pro-
cedure including development and implementation, publication and distribution
of the results and the training of SIS staff. The first stage of the technical
assistance program will be to define the type of statistical data to be
collected. This will be jointly determined by SIS, and the World Bank with
advice from economic and engineering consultants. The second stage of the
program will be hiring a consultant to develop the survey instrument. The
third stage will be to identify an appropriate universe oi enterprises in
Turkey, utilizing the existing addresses compiled by SIS and supplementing
them by an additional effort to identify omitted firms and new enterprises
established since the last census. Once the universe of firms is defined, a
sampling frame will be developed %aich will scientifically represent the
universe. In the fourth stage, the questionnaire will be distributed and
followed up by interviewers to ensure that all questions are understood and
answered as accurately as possible. In the fifth stage, the statistics will
be compiled on the mainframe computer at SIS, processed and published in hard
copy form. The last stage will be to develop a routine "downloading"
procedure, whereby the raw data can be transferred to micro diskette to enable
convenient distribution of data. In order to institutionalize the survey
exercise and updating procedure, a significant amount of SIS training is
necessary to upgrade in house staff. The three year cost of the program is
estimated at US$0.75 million, of which The Bank loan would finance US$0.50
million.
V. THE LOAN
A. Terms and Conditions
5.01     Under the proposed project, the Bank would provide a Loan of US$204.5
million to the Government of Turkey of which US$200 million would be made
available for onlending by the participating credit institutions to small and
medium scale enterprises and US$4.5 million for technical assistance. The
Bank loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a
repayment period of 17 years including 5 years of grace. The US$200 million
would be onlent to the PCIs under terms and conditions to be spelled out in
subsidiary loan agreements between GOT and each of the PCIs. The Government
would bear the exchange and interest rate risks through FERIS, since the
ultimate sub-borrowers are small and medium scale enterprises, which have
relatively little capacity to judge and hedge against exchange and interest
rate risks. The Loan would be onlent on terms which would provide the PCIs a
fixed spread of 32 per annum plus 2% per annum commission. This is the spread



- 25 -
available to the financial intermediaries under the ongoing Industrial Export
Development Project and is comparable with the spread the PCIs normally make
on their other funding business. Since the final lending rate to small and
medium scale enterprises would be the prevailing FERIS rate, the rate from the
Government to the PCIs for new subloans would be adjusted from time to time in
line with FERIS rate adjustments.  Since the Government would bear the
exchange risk, the exchange rate for each subloan would be set at the time of
disbursement and the liability of the PCI to the Government consequent to the
subloan disbursement would be denominated in local currency (para 7.01 a).
5.02     Statements of Policy and Corporate Strategy.  Each PCI would have to
prepare and submit to the Bank a policy and corporate strategy statement
detailing its financial and operating policies, business strategy and
organizational plan governing its activities in the short- and medium-term.
This statement, which should be satisfactory to the Bank, has to be approved
by the PCI's board of directors and would serve as the basis on which the PCI
would operate under the project. Drafts of the PCIs' policy and strategy
statements, which wera prepared during appraisal, were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations (para 7.02).
5.03     Repayment Terms.  The PCIs would repay their subsidiary loan from the
Government on a schedule based on the composite amortizations of their
subloans. Based on subloan maturities of eight years, grace periods of three
years and a disbursement period of five to six years, the subsidiary loan
maturities would be well within the Loan maturity of 17 years.
5.04     Conditions of Loan Effectiveness.  Completion of the following steps
would be conditions of Loan effectiveness:
(a) abolishment of the fixed rate FERIS and its replacement by a variable
rate (para 7.03)
(b) signing of subsidiary loan agreements by GOT and at least two PCIs
(para 7.03); and
(b) approval by their respective boards of directors and submission to
the Bank by these signatory PCIs of their policy and corporate
strategy statements, satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.03).
5.05     Technical Assistance Components.  The US$4.5 million for technical
assistance would be onlent to the Government which would pass on these funds
to the implementing institutions to carry out their respective technical
assistance components under the project. The US$1 million for the quality
control program would be disbursed to TSE against eligible expenditures to
support the quality assurance program for SMI enterprises. The US$1.5 million
for the export promotion component would be disbursed to the Ex-Im Bank to
finance eligible product and market development expenditures of selected
export trading companies. The US$0.5 million for the improvement of SMI
statistics would be disbursed to SIS to meet expenditures associated with the
improvement of the census and annual surveys of the industrial and SMI
sector. The US$1.5 million would be disbursed to the PCIs to meet
expenditures associated with staff training and organizational improvements
related to the SMI lending operations.



-26 -
B. Administrative Requirements
5.06     Special Account.  Since the credit component of the proposed project
would involve the financing of many sub-projects, each one with many, small
expenditure items, a special account would be created for the project in the
Central Bank to simplify disbursement procedures. All expenditures under
subloans which are approved by the PCIs and subsequently authorized by the
Bank would be met out of the funds of the special account. Disbursements from
the special account for free-limit subloans would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditures submitted by the PCIs. For subloans
above the free-limit full documentation would be required (para 5.10). The
Bank would disburse an initial amount of US$12 million (about four months of
disbursement) into the special account upon effectiveness of the Loan and
would periodically replenish the fund on the basis of reimbursement requests
from the PCIs.
5.07     Procurement.  Procurement procedures under the proposed project would
be the same as those established under the past SMI projects which were found
acceptable to the Bank. Since this is a SMI project which involves the
procurement of a great number of small items, international competitive
bidding would not be required. The procurement of goods would be as follows:
goods costing US$100,000 equivalent or more per item or US$500,000 equivalent
or more per contract procured outside the borrower's territory would be let
through international shopping on the basis of at least three competitive
quotations; for goods procured locally or goods procured outside Turkey with
sixkgle items costing less than US$100,000 or combined items costing less than
US$500,000 equivalent, the PCIs would use their existing procedures which
consists of requiring clients to submit three competitive quotations as the
basis for a procurement decision. The PCIs would also have to certify that
these goods were purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, due account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, quality
and reliability of goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts. For civil works for tourism sub-projects, local competitive bidding
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, would be used.
5.08     The PCIs would also be required to maintain records of the
procurements made under the project, with summaries of offers received and
awards made under each subloan. These records would be used by external
auditors in auditing the PCIs' certified statement of expenditures and would
be examined by Bank missions on a sampling basis (para 5.13).
5.09     Procurement of equipment, vehicles and materials under the technical
assistance components procured outside Turkey would be let through
international shopping on the basis of at least three responsive price
quotatio^w. For goods procured locally, the procurement procedures shall be
those of the Government for local competitive bidding, which have been
reviewed recently by the Bank and found to be satisfactory after appropriate
modifications. For consultants to be employed under the proposed project, the
respective implementation agencies would follow the guidelines for the use of
consultants issued by the Bank in August 1981. All terms of reference and
appointment of consultants would be subject to prior Bank approval.



- 27 -
5.10     Disbursements.  For the credit component, due to the great number of
small disbursements, disbursements for free-limit subloans would be made
against certified statement of expenditures for which appropriate
documentation would be retained by the PCIs and made available to Bank
missions and external a.uditors. Disbursements for subloans above the
free-limit would be on the basis of full documentation. Larger payments would
be submitted to the Bank for processing outside the special account. The
Bank's reimbursement would be limited to expenditures made by a sub-borrower
not more than 180 days prior to the Bank's receipt of the request for
reimbursement. This time lag is needed because subloans would be administered
at the branches of the PCIs and would require time to consolidate for
submission to the Bank. The Loan is expected to be committed in three years
and disbursed in six years, based on the latest regional sub-sector
disbursement profile.
5.11     For the credit component, the Bank would disburse 100% of the CIF
cost of imported equipment and materials, 70% of the cost of imported but
locally purchased equipment and materials (to factor out taxes), 50% of the
ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment and materials (to cover the cost
of its imported components) and 30% of the cost of civil works in tourism
sub-projects only. For the technical assistance components, the Bank would
disburse 100% of expenditures for consultants and foreign training; 100% of
the CIF costs of imported equipment, vehicles and supplies; and 100% of the
ex-factory cost of local equipment, vehicles and supplies. For imported
equipment, vehicles and supplies which are purchased locally, the Bank would
disburse 70%. The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the Bank's policy that the proceeds of the Loan would not be disbursed on
account of payment for ta."es and duties levied by the Government. Withdrawal
applications would be submitted to the Bank by the implementing agency
concerned.
5.12     Reports, Accounts and Audits.  The PCIs would submit semi-annual
progress reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under
the project to the Bank. In addition, the PCIs would maintain proper accounts
for subloans including supporting procurement and disbursement documents,
which would be audited annually by external auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
Currently, there is a list cf external auditors authorized by the Central Bank
to audit accounts of banks, which list is acceptable to the Bank. Since most
subloans would be disbursed on the basis of certified statements of
expenditures (SOE), they would need a separate audit or the regular annual
audit of a PCI has to include a special opinion by the auditors on the
adequacy of SOE procedures. Audit reports have to be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months after the close of PCI's financial year, and should also
include a certification that the PCI is in compliance with the financial
c,-)venants agreed under the project and the banking decrees issued under FSAL
II. After a subloan is fully disbursed, the PCI concerned would prepare a
sub-project completion report, comparing actual vs. projected costs and
benefits of the sub-project and submit this to the Bank periodically.
5.13     The technical assistance implementing agencies would prepare and
submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank. Accounts specific to the
project would be maintained separately and would be audited annually by
external auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports should be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the agency's fiscal
year.



- 28 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01     The sm4ll and medium scale industry sector is an increasingly
important segment of the Turkish economy and plays a major role in generating
employment opportunities, nurturing entrepreneurship, reducing regional income
disparities, and expanding and diversifying exports. The proposed project
would help the Government attend to the needs of the sector by making
investment finance more readily accessible to SMI units, by providing
effective technical and marketivg services and by improving the information
base for better policy making o'.t this sector through more reliable
statistics. The Bank loan would not only provide long-term resources to the
participating credit institutions for onlending to SMI enterprises, but also
technical assistance to improve their operating systems and train their staff
to make them more efficient channels for SMI finance. The project would also
expand the channels for technical and marketing services by including private
sector institutions which can complement the assistance provided by Government
agencies to the SMI sector.
6.02     Based on past experience, it is anticipated that the project would
finance about 900 SMI units creating about 26,000 new full-time jobs and
resulting in about US$400 million of incremental investments. The
sub-projects financed are expected to be fairly labor intensive, with a cost
per job usually not exceeAng US$15,000. While the SMI units financed are not
necessarily expected to be direct exporters themselves, many of them would be
producing for exporters and export trading companies.  Several of the SMI
units would be processing local raw materials with close linkages with the
agricultural sector. Many of the worker. employed by these units would be
less skilled or new entrants into the labor force.
6.03     By increasing the number of financial institutions participating in
SMI finance, it is expected that this would increase competition, improve
credit access and enhance banking services for SMI clients. By assisting the
participating credit institutions develop expertise in project-based lending
methodology, it is expected that improved project selection would result in
mort efficient investments. As the financial institutions get more acquainted
with this market segment and can appreciate better its risks and rewards, it
is anticipated that they would continue to expand their SMI portfolio on their
own.
6.04     The quality improvement component is expected to assist SMIs reach
quality thresholds which would allow them to use the national quality mark,
thereby improving market acceptance for their products both locally and
abroad.   The export promotion component would increase linkages between SMI
producers and export trading companies to allow them to concentrate on
production. By encouraging economies of scale in export marketing, Turkey
would develop better exporters who can be competitive and can gain a better
reputation for the country as a whole. The technical assistance for the State
Institute of Statistics would improve data collection, processing and analysis
and provide more reliable and accurate information for future policy and
project formulation.



- 29 -
B. Risks
6.05     Due to high inflation, high cost of money and the crowding out of the
private sector by Government borrowings, industry in general and SMI in
particular have experienced strained financial positions in the past few
years. Should the fiscal and financial imbalance continue cr deteriorate,
many investment plans by SMIs would not only not materialize but existing
operations could be jeopardized, adding to the existing stock of
non-performing assets of the financial system. The Government, through its
letter of macroeconomic policy, has committed itself to a package of
adjustment measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and inflation. The Bank is
assisting the Jovernment in its reform program, most recently through FSAL
II. The Government and the Bank are closely monitoring implementation of the
adjustment program to ensure that it continues to be on the right track and to
make modifications as needed.
6.06     There is a risk that the commercial banks participating in the
proposed project would not pay sufficient attention to SMI lending considering
the small size of this operation in relation to the total business of these
banks. A major criterion in the selection of the participating credit
institutions was their interest in and firm plans for developing their SMI
portfolio. Separate monitoring and reporting would be required to ensure
attention of this product line by tbe top management of these banks.
6.07     Success in the implementation of the technical assistance component
assigned to the private sector would depend on how effective the private
sector would be in attending to activities which benefit a group of firms
rather than individuals and are meant for the medium term rather than for
immediate profits. Involvement of relevant Government agencies in policy and
strategy formulation for these components would help ensure that broader
interests get sufficient attention in implementation.
6.08     There is a risk that, dvte to weaknesses in staffing and procedures,
the public sector institutions will be unable to play the roles assigned to
them under the project. Training and consultancy services would be provided
under the project to strengthen these institutions. Private sector
involvement has been inco_porated to help ensure responsiveness and public
accountability.
VII. RECO ENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, agreement by the Government on the following
were confirmed:
(a)  that the Government would be the Borrower of the Bank loan and that
it would pass on the proceeds of the Loan to the participating credit
institutions and the final sub-borrowers, with the Government bearing
the exchange and interest rate risks (para 5.01);
(b) that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the fixed rate FERIS be
abolished and that FERIS be placed on a variable rate basis; the
variable rate would be adjusted automatically every quarter and to
the average of the 3-month Treasury Bill rate in the preceding three
months; the interest during a grace period of three years may be
capitalized but would have to be compounded (para 2t.27);



!  30
(c) onlending terms and conditions, margins, and eligibility criteria for
the credit component (para. 4.11 - 4.13).
(d) conditions of participation and financial covenants for the
participating credit institutions (Annex 3);
(e) procedures for procurement, disbursemenic, reporting, accounting and
auditing (para. 5.06 - 5.13).
7.02     Drafts of the following, which were prepared during appraisal, were
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations:
(a) subsidiary loan agreement between GOT and the five PCIs;
(b) statements of policy and corporate strategy for each PCI;
7.03     The following were agreed as conditions for Loan effectiveness:
(a) abolishment of the fixed rate FERIS and placing of FERIS only on a
variable rate basis (para 5.04);
(b) signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOT and at least two
PCI (para 5.04); and
(c) approval by their respective boards of directors and submission to
the Bank by these signatory PCIs of their policy and strategy
statement (para 5.04).
7.04     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of
US$204.5 million at the standard variable interest rate for a period of 17
years including 5 years of grace for the Government of Turkey, under
conditions outlined in Chapter V.
6



TABLE I
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE AND PERFORMMACE INDICATORS
By SIZE
(1980)
Additions to
Ave. 4 of employed       fixed invest. per year             Output                    Value Added
4 of establishments               per year                   (bil TL)                   (bil TL)                     (bil TL)
private   Public   Total   Privat   Publ        Ia1   Private   Public   Tota    Private  Public  Total  Private    bli  Joaw
Informal         177.034        0  177.034   454,931        0   454,931       -         0        -        -         0      -       -          0      -
Small              6,509       80    6,589   132,714   2.100  134.814          6        0         6     282         2     284       76        1       77
Medium               889       38      927    61.202   2,650   63.852          5        0         5      176        6      182      54        2       56
Large                904      290    1.194   314.545 282,439  S96.984         40       22        62     889       881   1.770      360      330      691
Smi + med          7.398       83    7.516   193.916   4.750  198.666         11        0        11     458         9     466      131        3      133
Total (10+)        8302       408    8.710   508.461 287Z.189  Z95,6S0        52       22  7.   _1.347    _'2  _iLiLL              491      333    _ 2_
t of Total (Excludina Informal Sectorl
Additions to
Ave. # of employed       fixed invest. per year               Output                    Value Added
a of establishments              per year                   (bil TL)                     (bil TL)                     (bil TL)
Private  Publie  Tota    Private  Public   TIoa    Private   Public            1  Private   Public   otal  Privat    Public   Tta
Small              78.40    19.61  75.65       26.10     0.73   16.94    11.85        0.32    8.40   20.95       0.26    12.72  1S.52       0.24    9.35
Medium             10.71      9.31  10.64      12.04     0.92    8.03       9.98      0.26    7.07   13.06       0.70      8.14  11.08      0.60    6.84
Large              10.89    71.08  13.71       61.86    98.35   75.03    78.17       99.42   84.53   65.99    99.04    79.14  73.40    99.16   83.81
iml + med          89.11    20.34  86.29      38.14      1.65   24.97    21.83        0.58   15.47   34.01       0.96    20.86  26.60      0.84   16.19
Total  100+      .00.f0   100.00 100.0l      100 00 19 . 00f 00  100.00   1 JI0 ll..f  100.   lD00   100.00   100...    100.00 0QL. l    100.q0  100.00
Industrial Ratios
Fixed investment per
Avg. 4 of workers             Worker                   Output per worker           Value added per worker        Output/additions to
(# Der firm)             (000 TL/Workerl              (000 TL/ workerl              (000 TL/Workerl              fix investment
Perivat   Public  Total   Private   ubliS  TIotal  Privata  Pub1lc    Pota]         rivata  PubtiIc Iota]   Private   Puhflic ota]
Informal         2.6      0.0      2.6        -       -        -                -                                -                   -      -
Small           20.4     26.3    20.5        46      33       46   2.125   1.096       2.109         574       382       571      46.1    33.0       46.0
Hedium          68.8     69.7    68.9        84      22       82   2,874   2.340       2.852         889       753       883      34.2   108.8       35.0
Large          347.9    973.9   500.0       128      78      104   2.825   3,121       2,965       1.146    1.169      1.157      22.0    40.2       28.4
Sml 4 Med       26.2     57.2    26.4        58      27       57   2.362   1,790       2.348         673       589       671      40.7    67.0       41.0
Total (10+)    61.2    703.9    91.3        101      77       93   2.648   3,099       2,811         982    1.159      1.047      26.1    40.4       30.4
Source:  SIS. 1980 Survey of Muanfactures
0345f.P 7



TABLE I
(Continued)
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEOIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
BY SIZE
(1985)
Additions to
Ave a of employed      fixed invest. per year               Output                  Value Added
a of establishments              per yea-                   (bil TL)                     (bil TL)                   (bil Tn)
Private  Public  Total   Private   Public   iual   Private   Pubitc  7ota7   Private  Public   Total  private  Public   Total
Informal         183.572        0  183,572   475,198        0  475,198         -        0        -        -         D     -         -         0      -
Small              7,989       47    8,036   168e39   1.59S  169,634         45         0      45    1,952         14   1.967      469        3      472
Hedium             1,092       36    1.128    75,807   2,724   78.531         47        0       47    1,164        45   1,209      305        11     316
Large              1.174      309    1,483   416.875 271,700  688.575       685       338   1.023    8.324    6.311  14.634   2,732    2,137   4.869
Sml + m^d          9,081       83    9,164   243,846   4,319  248,165        92         0      92    3.116         59   3,175      774        14     788
Total (10+)       10.?55      392   10.647   660.721 276.019  936.740       777       338   lUI l    11.440   6.371  17.811   3.50 2.1       S11   5.oS7
% of Total (Excluding Informal Sector)
Additions to
Avg 9 of employed       fixed invest. per year              Output                    Value Added
U of establishments               per year                  (bil TL)                    (bil TL)                     (bil TL)
Private  Public  Total   Private  Public   iotal    Private   Public   7a7  Priante  Public   Total  Private  Public   70tal
Small              77.90    11.99  75.48       25.43     0.58   18.11      5.78       0.05    4.04   17.07       0.22    11.04  13.38      0.13    8.34
Medium             10.65      9.18  10.59      11.47     0.99    8.38      6.05       0.09    4.24   10.17       0.71     6.79   8.69      0.53    5.58
Large              11.45    78.83  13.93       63.09    98.44   73.51    88.18       99.86   91.72   7?.76    99.07    S2.17  77.93    99.34   86.08
Sml + med          88.55    21.17  86.07       36.91     1.56   26.49    11.82        0.14    8.28   27.24       0.93     7.83  22.07      0.65   13.92
Total (10+)       100.0Q   100. Q  100.00    100.00   100.00  100.00   100.00    100.0      00 100.0  I00O00   10L0.D    100.00 100.00   I00.00   0 L.u0
Industrial Ratios
Fixed investment per
Avg. a of workers              Worker                 OutpLt per worker      Value added per worker
(a per firm)            (000 TL/Worker)              (000 TL/worker)          (000 TL/worker)            Output/fix invest. ratio
Private  Publitc  To     Private   Public    Total  Private  Publi    TAW   Privat   Public   Tbtai          Private  Public    TpU.l
Informal            2.6      0.0      2.6      -         -         -       -        -         -      -         -        _-                   -
Small              21.0      33 9    21.1      267        106      266  11,619    8,857  11,593  2,791   16S.9    2.781         43.5     83.7       43.6
Medium             69.4      75.7    69.6      620        110      602  15,348   16,616  15,392  4,017    4,152    4.022         24.8      51.6      25.6
Large             355.1    879.3   464.3   1,644       1,243    1.486  19,967   23.229  21,254  6.554    7.866    7,072          12.1     18.7       14.3
Sml + med          26.9      52.0    27.1      377       108       372  12,778   13,750  12,795  3,172    3,242    3,174         33.9    127.1       34.4
Total (10+)        64.4    704.1    8B.0   1.176    1.225   1.1* 91  17.314   23.081  19.013  5.380   7.793    6.098             14.7     is.,       16.0
Source:  SIS, 1985 Survey of Manufacture
0345R .P.8 S



TABLE 2
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL ANI) MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
ENff Of PRIVIE 1i 101. lMlUlERli 1AI61RI
V Size ard Irdstrat SbSertr
fRIVIAE SW=I
Grnz htian
1stdA idwts                              l                                               -o                                 to fi1d   bt
(in.)                            (no of sin)                                   (bittiaw of It)                         (b1iiw@  at n)
-24  25-49  50-W9   100         1    10t24    5-49   -59W    1tP           I    10 -4   25.49    0         1          1    1024   25-49               t tD        I
........................  ......................    .....        .............................................  ...............................................  .................................
fd, td        (31)        1.350    39E   1S2    180  2,071   20,012  12,991  tO,42  54,296  W,741   11,315   9,772   9,56    66,711   99,3%           4,61   5 3,     6,2D   53,36    72,5
tatites, tawAr (32)       1,414    520    26     322  2,519   22,34   17,48   18.441  t42,410 23D.9ff   10,275  10,0 1   17,13D  1SS,tffS  19,617    4,510 S  S555   8.75   22D.10   2,W
Waed imt. fanitwe (331    327       61     36     29    473    4,915   2.W5   2,459   S,aP  15t43    1,95   1,474   1 IS            5%5   11,41    t,27b        m       310   2480      4,M
pqr & Pur Piud (34)         W2      U      47     4      .5     4.*U    2,61    3,351  10,255  20,5Y8    2,559   2,2i    3,3    19.ED   27,453    17m    1,49   3 014   21,442   27,06
OicaA,iCc.,ber (35)    517    232    12  117    9W              8,4W    7,9W.  81&,1    390R 646 4.       5,4     7,3i51   10,975   738 5  tWi2'1t    2,65   271 n    t4,      77113   97,W1
lwtkeIic (36)              234    230      S 1D 5 O      651    3,971   7,071   6,S93   40,459  S6,35     1,757   3,57    4,575   72,04   61.3          979   2,40    1,1      42,4J8   47,Q2
biC    w  (37)             214    130      72     62    478    3541    4,41   401 6   S.         1,7 1   4 1d  ,  4,017   5,53   34.364   45,512        640   1."?   4ALA      37,763   44,410
Fricatedd  etal (38)      1,316    542    274    30D  2,512   2,35Z  16,116  18,930                      ll',5   16863    11,0   13.45   19303  15,4'7  as5,4wo    5,5  4,53   7.958  157,51   176,25
Other lbugtwsu,   (0)       63      30     17      12   '12       95   1,2   1.13    2,52D   5,65          45      464      52    21^    4,46?         119    'c       '23    6.5t2    7,at
0        0
total (3)                 5,M   2,12  1,092  1,174  10,85   93,546  75,7   15,414 416,4   iS,42    47,491  57,68   73,435  621,814  10,.35   22,115  72.714  47,B   W.,3                7,
RRtLIC NO FRlVAV BIASLU S WINO aEIE  TM 10 l           s
O~s Mhtimrs
Esbt .slm.ts                             EqAooa t                                     ik                                    to Fixed A_s5
(t  )                            (ro of wdrtem)                                (bitlias of IL)                         (bittLiU  of it)
10-24 25-49 so-W10               I    V    25495059    1                  1    10-24 215-5 0 9            10          1    10-24  25 4950-99          53 .
Fod, I     t (31)         1.350    4a    17S    321  2,277   20,02   14,3I   12.319 16,110  W2,69   11,353  11,W    11,e  1179470  213.1    4,61  35,233   6,416   10,36   94,M
letile, Ledo (32)         1,4U     520    a0     352  2,s5    22,3%    7,       16,S1   17633  28941   10,275  1,0   17,2I9  t14.95  a5,51            4,510   5,5    6,7    5?,560  3I,34
td irei. fhnit* (33)   W37          81     30     51    47    4,915   2A1    2.68S      It       21sn      1.95    1,47    2,1w     11,63    17,15    1,276    3m    318    2,151    5.1V
pqu a Pqur Pru (34)         32      3     48     61    454    4,21   2,64    3.423 5,i   36,291    2,55    2,35   3,0    436 25    2,i0               .7m    1,42    3.at38 25,s   31,51
micale,Caat,m4e  (5)    517    232    132    139  15    8,47    7.w#4  9,161  6,110  3,41    s,41    7,351  11,318  121,S8  1VA,110    2,45   2,n75   14,2s5  2,543   Z5,17?
mmet5tlic (36)              234    20     10      13    ii      3,971  7?0n   6o,934  9,0   710,9s        1 757   3,570   4.*S5   9g,816   a2,7 4       979   2,463   1tF2  14.%1   13D,119
esic  tat (37)              21     130     72      75    491    3416   ,481   4,691  67,50  3.61s    13   4,017   553  125,137  U13,3                   610   1,447   4,*0     6,3      10
faicatSed 'eel (36)       1,3      546    276    33   2,555   72,56  18.912  19,1C0  142,6 2,642 J 11,0   1,617  19,431  24S5541 2i,5e                5,533   4,9M1   ,96   Am,4       a185
Other _Smoaettwu  (39)       63     s0     1T      12    122      95  t,,U2    1,130   2,520   5 ,fin       45       06     6 2 2,31    4,1             119     357     23    6,512 r781
lotaI (3)                 5.m    ?2,%   1,135  1,.4  10,647   90,566  77,M35  7S.138 6M,401  934.443   47,491  59,        76h,SOD 1,01777461,2D11Q   22,115  22.,  47,W  1,072,9 1,15,14D
Source:  SIS, 1985 Survey of Manufactures



TABLE 2
(Continued)
TURKEY
SECOND SMALI. AND MEDIUM SCALE INLtISTRY PROJECT
BR rKO  Of PRIVvAlf NOD  olAi PAUfACtURlIG IUDUSIRt
By Size ard Ifrdstrial Sub-Sector
(cont inued)
PRIVAIE SECTOR
luP*                                             Outpit                                              Value Aed
(bill im   of IL)                                 (bitlions of Ilt)                                    (billions of Il)
10-24    25-49    50-99      100.          r      10-24     25-49     50-99         00.                10-24     25-49     S0-94       100          I
.........................     ............................................. ..  .     ............. ...................... ..  ........ ......... . ......... .............. ..... .......  I . ............................................ ............ ........................
food, Tobrcco (31)         181,970  274,199  244.551   830,102  1.530,828   225,049   330,781   295,686  1.161.,7  2,012.,f2        43,079    56,583    S1.133   331,339   482,134
Textites. Leather (52)     182.599  197,855  166.206  910,676  1,517,337   234.524   263,056   224,523  1.S48,631  2.210.7n4        51,925    65,200    58,317  s7n,95S   753,397
otd lnc;. furniture (35)   26,152   14,276   131532    40,949       94,890    35,578    20,410    19, SS    S9,679   1!S,052         9,246     6,134     6,053    18, 9    40,162
Paper a !'.r Prod (34)       31.915   18.7U4  28.099   136.961    215,718    43,487    31.108   43,253    227,561    345,409        11,572    12366    15.1S4    90,601   129.691
CI,mical,Coel,Rubber (S5)   73,863   86,007  132,655 1,189,079  1,481e603    99,875   117,66U   188,590  1,648,468  2,054,601       26,012    31,662    ss,93s   459.389   512,98
on-metallic 436)              ',551   18,678   18,'79    324,958    372,983    17,1SS    30'199    33,718    608.679    689.752      6,604    11 521    14,922   283,?21   3167a69
Besic Metal (37)             33,910  105,723  122 493   671,691    033,Si?    40,240   130,809   148,659    892,022  1.211,730       6,330    25,386    26,166   220,330   277,913
Fabricated Metal (38)      113.597  103.258  129,26 1.411,900  1,757,992   159,516   158,534   203,325  2,141Z770  2,663 146        4S5919    55,276    74.089   729,8D   905,13S
other Mewu1acturing (39)      3,965    6,196    3,400    15,409     28,ff9     5,862      8,794     6,179     35,600     56,434      1,897     2,599     2,779    20,191    27,465
0          0                                        0           0
total (3)                  658.502  824,935  85,%9 5.591.731  7,934,137   861,086 1.091,360 1,163,517  8,323.85G 11,439,819    202,5S3   266,424   304.549 2,7n2,125 3,505,682
................ .................. ...........................     ......................................... ............   .................. ...... ........ ...... ........ .. ... ..    ...... ....   . .............   ........................................
PUtLIC AND PRIVATE ESTABLISIENNIS WITN GREATER IINU  10 IRERS
Input                                            Output                                              Value Added
(bilttorm of It)                                 (billions of fl)                                      (billons of IL)
10-24    25 49    50-99      100.          1     10-24     25-49      $0-99       100l          1      10-24     25-49     50-99       100.         I
........................................     . .................. ............................. .. ........    .........     ......... ..............     ...........................     ........... ......................................................................-------*------- --
Food, Tobacco (31)          181,970  2846747 275,51a 1,420,631  2,162,866   225,049   343,808   335,141  2,440,579  3,344,577    43,079   59,061    59,624 1,019,947 1,181,711
lextiles, Leatewr (32)     l82,599  197,a55  166,297 1,112,192  1,658,943   234,524   263,056   224,797  1 768619  2,490,996       51,925   65,200    58,501   656,427   832,03
Wood incl. furniture (33)   26,132   14,276   14,328    82,318    137,055    35,378    20,410    21. 119    131t727    208,633       9,246     6,134     6 791    49,4C8    71,578
Paper & Paper Prod (34)     31,915   18,757   28,122   268,177    346.971    43,U47    31,148    43,350    435,442   553,427        11,572    12,391    15,228   167,266   206,456
Chemical,Coal,IW r (35)   73,863   86,007  134,394 3,633,635  3,927,899    99,875   117,666   191,932  4,976,956  5,386,431         26,012    31,662    57,538 1.343,321 1,458.532
n-Metatlic (36)              10,SS1   18,678   18 796   415,950    465,975    17,155    50,199    33718    753.822    84,894         S.60     11,521    14,922   337,82   310,920
Basic Metal (37)            33,910  15, 723  122,493 1,227,533  1,489,659    40 240   130,809   148 659  1 654,091  1,973,799        6,330    25,066    26,166   426,558   484.140
Fabricated Metvl (38)       113,597  U14,092  129,574 1,590,201  1,937,464   159,516   S9,539   203,B84  2,438,491  2,961,430      45,919    55,447    74,311   848,290 1,023,%6
Other Nawfacturing (39)       3,965    6,196    3,400    15,409     28,969     5,862      8,794     6,179     35,600    56,434       1,897     2,599      2. 9    20,191    27,465
Total (3)                  658,502  836,331  892,921 9,766,047 12,153,801   861,086 1,105,431 1,2o0,719 14,635,325 17,810,621    202,583   269,100   315,858 4,869,279 5,656,821
Source S S 1985 Sr..es                  .   .   ..   .    .. .    ..........  ......_..........  ...   ......................j...........................
Source:    SIS, 1985  Survey  of Manufactures                                                                                                                                   1



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SMI Credit Demand (1989-1991)
1.       The rising rates of capacity utilization in most sub-sectors, mean
that future expansion of manufacturing output and exports are dependent on a
rebound of investment in new and modernized capacity. Given its capital
saving characteristics, the SMI sector is particularly suitable .or
contributing to that growth under the current financial environment.
2.       Given the lack of investment statistics covering the SMI sector,
indications of past and projected SMI investment and can only be imputed from
total private manufacturing investment. Though falling, estimates indicate
that SMI's share of private manufacturing fixed investment was 352 in 1985.
For discussion purposes, a conservative estimate of 302 is assumed for the
1989-91 period. Manufacturing investment has experienced a significant shift
toward the private sector during the 1980s. Table 1 shows manufacturing
investv'ent broken into its private and public components, and in real and
nominal terms. The tables illustrate the shift in investment patterns but
indicate that private investment needs to expand faster for output growth to
remain strong. During the 1980s, public sector investment grew by 201 per
year in nominal terms, but fell by a yearly average of 8% when calculated in
constant prices. Private sector investment on the other hand, raised its
share in total manufacturing investment from 411 in 1980 to 712 in 1987 by
expanding at 432 p.a. In 1987, the value of total fixed manufacturing
investment in the private sector was TL 1650 billion which amounted to almost
US$2 billion, compared to US$588 million invested by public sector
manufacturing.   When calculated in real terms however, private sector
manufacturing investment expanded at only a 2% annual rate; which at current
capacity utilization rates, is likely to be insufficient to sustain the
current growth rate of output without a significant fall in the already low
ICOR.
TABLE 1
GROSS FIXED MANUFACTURING INVESTMENT
1980-1988
Current Prices             Share of Total         Real Growth Rate
(million TL)                   (2)                      (M)
Private    Public         Private    Public        Private    Public
1980        128,819   139,885           47.9X      52.1%        -14.12       9.82
1981        183,001   186,194           49.62      50.42         -2.0%      -8.52
1982        242,551   205,110           54.21      45.8%          0.62    -15.92
1983        323,379   192,624           62.72      37.3%          1.0%      -3.32
1984        510,592   248,833           67.2Z      32.8%          5.91    -17.41
1985        766,513   407,875           65.3%      34.7%          6.0%       6.8%
1986      1,271,406   515,787           71.1%      28.9%         13.21    -19.3%
1987      1,650,274   504,207           76.6%      23.41         -9.01    -38.41
1988      2,983,400   715,600           80.71      19.3%            -          -
Source: SPO



ANNEX 2
rage 2
3.       The sixth five year plan estimates a rebound in private manufacturing
investment to TL 2983.4 billion in 1988 (amounting to US$2.19 billion,
assuming 1366 TL/US$ average yearly exchange rate) and TL 4763.1 billion in
1989. In the absence of official estimates, a broad indication of investment
during 1990-91 is obtained by using estimates of nominal investment,
manufacturing output growth, and inflation, to obtain a 2.44 ICOR for the
1983-89 period. Given this ICOR and a conservative assumption of 5% expansion
of manufacturing output during 1990 and 1991, private manufacturing investment
is projected to reach TL 7829.9 billion in 1990 and TL 11,774 billion in
1991. Assuming a continuing nominal devaluation in line with projected
inflation, gross fixed investment in private sector manufacturing would total
US$6.69 billion for the three years between 1989-91. Applying the assumed
301, the SMI share of total private investment in the manufacturing sector
would average US$669 million per year, totaling US$2.0 billion for the three
year period.
4.       Past SMI Loans.  Under a previous Bank loan to the SMI sector, the
Bank accounted for 18Z of the needs of the entire SMI sub-sector, while other
financing sources accounted for another 441, with the remaining 381 financed
from equity. Under the current financial condition surrounding industrial
term lending, Bank financing is expected to increase to 251 of the entire SMI
sub-sector investments, as indicated by the sub-loan pipeline in Table 2.
TABLE 2
SUB-LOAN PIPELINE
FOR
PARTICIPATING CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
(As of November 11, 1988)
HALK     EMLAK    SYKB   VAKIFLAR       TOTAL
NUMBER OF PROJECTS                   617         68       60         42        787
of which: Manufacturing            587         44       52         23       706
PROJECT COST (US$'000)            41,339   205,380   41,384   304,480   592,583
Fixed Assets                    30,957      -       41,384   295,583   367,924
Working Capital                 10,381      -        -         26,671    37,052
FINANCING REQUIREMENT (uS$'0oo)  19,434    90,056   33,608    81,743   224,841
Local Currency                   9,640    37,216       732    38,117    85,705
Foreign Exchange                 9,794    52,840   34,340    43,626   140,600
Source:  Appraisal Mission Estimates
5.       Subloan Pipeline.  The projections of buoyant credit demand in the
SMI sector is supported by the strong list of projects in the PCIs' pipeline.
The current pipeline of projects, presented in Table 2, refers to annual
applications and shows 787 projects at various stages of processing, costing
almost US$600 million, of which 62% is accounted for by fixed assets. The
financing requirement for these 787 projects is estimated to be US$224
m5llion, of which US$140 million is foreign exchange financing.  The
substantial amoumt of credit demand in the PCI pipeline of sub-projects is



ANNEX 2
Page 3
evidence that there will be a sufficient start-up of projects at the time of
loan effectiveness. The annual amount of credit demand shown in the
sub-project pipeline is consistent with the global projections of credit
demand by the SMI sector as a whole.  Taking the projections for SMI
investment during 1989-91 and using the financing pattern from the pipeline of
projects, the demand for credit would be about US$415 million per year, of
which US$167 million per year could be the foreign exchange resource gap. The
Bank Loan would meet about a quarter of this resource gap.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Participating Credit Institutions
A. Emlak Bank (EB)
1.       Emlak Bank is a state commercial bank established in January 1988
through the merger of two public sector banks, the Anadolu Bank and Emlak
Kredi Bank. The former Anadolu Bank inherited a serious loan portfolio
problem with a number of bad loans that were made before new management took
over in late 1986. By merging Anadolu Bank with the larger and financially
stronger Emlak Kredi Bank, the Government has aimed at the creation of a
virtually new institution under new and professional management. The new
Emlak Bank is now the third largest bank in aasets and the fifth largest in
deposits in Turkey.
2.       Emlak Bank intends to be a major player in the banking sector with
three divisional profit centers: a corporate banking division catering to the
needs of the top industrial, export trade and construction companies of
Turkey; a division for property development using its real estate holdings and
its expertise in financing real estate development; and a retail banking
division with a network of over 400 branches catering to consumer and small
business needs and becoming a major, if not the sole, provider of housing
finance. It is as part and parcel of the strategy of this last division that
Emlak would expand its small and medium scale industry lending operations,
initially by using the project appraisal and supervision expertise developed
in the credit department at headquarters and later decentralizing to the
regional offices and branches as lending volumes and needed expertise grow.
These are reflected in Emlak's policy and corporate strategy statements which
were discussed with the appraisal mission and will be finalized at
negotiations.
3.       One of EB's biggest assets is the quality of the management and staff
that it has recently attracted. Many of the key personnel have been brought
in over the last one and a half years by the new general manager from the
private sector and from other banking institutions, and constitutc a dedicated
and professional team. EB has been able to recruit these personnel though
compensation that is comparable with the private sector, and by offering the
challenge of transforming a public sector organization into an innovative
force in the Turkish banking system. The bank's management intends to broaden
the ownership base by selling 50% of the shares to the bank's pension fund and
the general public. This will give the bank greater operational autonomy as
well as needed accountability for sound and responsible management. This is
planned to be done in 1989 and was encouraged by the appraisal mission and is
one strong argument for Bank support of Emlak.
4.       Emlak's .;ost urgent problem is its problem portfolio, inherited from
past management. As of June 30, 1988, arrears were TL 220 billion and total
infected portfolio was TL 242 billion, indicating that the arrears are quite
old and hard cors. Collection performance of the bank, although improving, is
substandard, at 212, due to the past problem portfolio. While this is only



ANNEX 3
Page 2
about 102 of total loan portfolio, provisions for them are only TL 27
billion. If these were fully provisioned for, the current networth of the
bank of TL 219 billion would be wiped out, rendering the bank technically
insolvent. Management is currently taking steps to deal with its portfolio
problem. It has completed a portfolio audit and has increased its provisions
for bad loans in accordance with the findings of the audit. These are steps
in the right direction and should allow the bank to clean up its books.
Management would then be able to focus on the future without having to
constantly deal with the burden of past management.
5.       For the SMI project, the major units involved would be the credit
department at headquarters which would undertake project appraisal and
supervision and the retail banking division which would promote, identify and
screen loan applications from SMI borrowers and handle loan administration and
collection through its retail branches. Management felt, and the appraisal
mission agreed, that this somewhat centralized set-up is an efficient way to
start this program. Decentralization would be undertaken as the volume of
lending increases and as more staff in the regional offices and branches are
trained. The credit department is adequately staffed to handle the number of
loans expected to be generated under the project, with 19 professionals in
finance and economics. However, the department would need the services of
technical specialists for more technically complex sub-projects. This could
be achieved by reassignment, retainer arrangements or recruitment and would be
reassessed once the workload under the project becomes more defined. To
improve the appraisal and supervision standards, methods and procedures of
Emlak, technical assistance would be provided under the project as part of the
overall institution building objectives of the project.
6.       Although a the result of the merger of two old banks, Emlak is
virtually a new bank, with a new team of professional managers, a new mandate,
new goals and an articulated business strategy. It still carries the burden
of past bad loans but it has the means for resolving this problem satisfac-
torily because of its extensive land holdings. It is still a state bank and
is subject to the constraints of one but should it succeed in broadening its
ownership base, it would gain operational autonomy needed to achieve its goals
more efficiently. Emlak has the right ingredients for success but it will
need support to succeed. The Bank would provide this support, initially
through this project. Already through the process of project preparation and
appraisal, the Bank has helped Emlak define its goals, policies and strate-
gies. It has identified areas that need strengthening through operating
policy and procedural modifications and information system improvements. In
the specific area of project financing, the Bank will provide assistance in
improving project appraisal and supervision standards and procedures. The
Bank's requirements for improved procurement and disbursement procedures,
together with improved appraisal and supervision and tighter credit policies,
will help improve portfolio quality. The Bank's reporting, accounting and
auditing requirements will raise Emlak's standards to internationally
acceptable levels. Should Emlak perform well under this project, it could
expand its relationship with the Bank in areas like housing finance, export
financing, large scale industrial lending and construction financing.
7.       Conditions for Participation and Financial Covenants.  To participate
in the project, Emlak would have to: a) make adequate provisions for its
non-performing portfolio, satisfactory to the Bank; b) prepare and issue



ANNEX 3
Page 3
policy and strategy statements, approved by its boird and acceptable to the
Bank; and c) sign the subsidiary loan agreement with the Government. To be
able to continue participating in the project, Emlak would have to submit
annually to the Bank, together with its audit report, a certification from its
auditors that it continues to comply with the financial covenants under this
project, as follows: a) a minimum collection ratio of 752 for all its medium
and long-term loans; b) a minimum debt-service-cover ratio of 1.2 to 1;  '
c) a capital adequacy ratio in compliance with the Banking Law; and d)
adequate provisions for bad debts as prescribed under the original provisions
decree of May 1988.
B. Halk Bank (HB)
8.       Halk Bank was established in 1933 as the public sector commercial
bank responsible for attending to the needs of small and medium scale
industries, artisans and cooperatives. It started by focussing on the
provision of working capital loans to these sectors but has broadened its
assistance by expanding into investment financing as well. Halk Bank is a
participant in the credit component of SMI I. After a slow start, it improved
its performance and proved to be an effective channel for SMI investment
finance. Halk has recently had frequent changes at its top management level
which has caused some instability and delayed decision making. However, in
May 1988, the Government appointed a new general manager, who was formerly an
assistant general manager of the agricultural bank (Ziraat Bankasi) and was
responsible for Bank agriculture loans. This appointment appears to have
restored stability within the bank, and Halk Bank has resumed implementing its
commitments under SMI I.
9.       Halk Bank has played a lead role in providing fl-nancing to small and
medium scale industries, cooperatives and artisans, and in the 1985-1987
period, over 75Z of its outstanding loans were for these sectors. RB has been
able to accomplish this because of its wide branch network, its access to low-
cost funds from the Government and its expertise in dealing with this sector
developed over the years.
10.      Despite its developmental role, HB has continued to be a profitable
and liquid bank. It is conservatively managed, and its credit policies
require that all its loans be fully secured by mortgages and/or personal and
bank guarantees. This, together with its close contacts with its borrowers
through its branch network, has allowed Halk Bank to develop a good portfolio
of small loans with little arrears. Halk's financial position is strong, and
1/ The debt-service-cover ratio for the commercial banks among the PCIs is
calculated by dividing the sum of the net income after tax, interest
payments (adjusted for taxes) on medium and long-term loans (over one year
maturity), provisions for losses and loan collections from medium and
long-term loans (over one year maturity)by the sum of the repayments of
debt and payments of interest (adjusted for taxes) on medium and long-term
debt (over one year maturity).  For the development banks among the PCIs,
the debt-service-cover ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net
income after tax, interest payments adjusted for taxes, provisions for
losses and loan collections by the sum of the repayments of debt and
payments of interest, adjusted for taxes.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
its past profitability has allowed it to adequately provide for its entire
non-performing portfolio. Based on the information provided to the appraisal
mission, Halk Bank has already set aside sufficient provisions as required
under the decree to cover loans that are not current and made preliminary
allowances for loss of creditworthiness in performing loans contingencies. It
is anticipated that Halk will successfully complete its participation in SMI I
and would have a bigger role in SMI II under revised policies and strategies,
agreed during the appraisal mission.
11.      Conditions for Participation and Financial Covenants.  In order for
Halk Bank to participate in the proposed project, it would have to: a)
finalize and issue its policy and corporate strategy statements, as approved
by its board and satisfactory to the Bank; and b) sign a subsidiary loan
agreement with the Government, satisfactory to the Bank. To be able to
continue participating, Halk Bank would have to submit, together with its
annual audit report, a certification by its auditors that it is in compliance
with the following financial covenants under the project: a) a minimum
collection ratio on all its medium and long term loans of 75X; b) a minimum
debt-service-cover ratio of 1.2 to 1; c) a capital adequacy ratio as required
by the Banking Law; and d) adequate provisions for bad loans as prescribed
under the provisions decree of May 1988.
C. Industrial Investment Credit Bank (SYKB)
12.      SYKB was established in 1963 by five commercial banks primarily to
provide working capital loans to projacts provided with investment loans by
the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB), the other private
development bank in Turkey. Since the early 1970s SYKB has significantly
expanded its role and has moved into investment financing in a big way. The
Bank has been instrumental in the growth of SYKB as a development finance
institution. SYKB's relationship with the Bank has grown cver the years, and
to date, it has been the recipient of four Bank loans amounting to US$185
million primarily earmarked for private sector industry: (i) textile
industries (US$15 million); (ii) labor-intensive industries (US$ 40 million);
(iii) small and medium scale industries (US$80 million); and (iv) the export
industrieL (US$50 million). The implementation of the loans for textile and
labor intensive industries was delayed somewhat because of the reluctance of
final borrowers to bear the foreign exchange risk. However, with the
introduction of Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FEP.IS) in 1985, the
implementation of these two loans was accelerated and the two loans were
disbursed with only minor cancellations.   SYKB has performed well under the
current SMI loan, and has met its major objectives, financial covenants and
timetable for disbursements. SYKB's participation in the export loan which
became effective in April 1988 is also satisfactory.
13.      SYKB is a well-managed financial institution and has build up a cadre
of competent staff. SYKB has concentrated mainly on providing long-term
finance to small and mediLn scale industries and has built a strong
portfolio. However, the difficult financial environment in recent years has
had a significant impact on the performance of SYKB's clients. The
non-performing portfolio of SYKB has recently been increasing as firms
suffered from high cost of money and adjusted to new market realities. The
increasing level of non-performing assets is putting pressure on the spread of
the bank, could lead to 'Liquidity problems and stifle SYKB's growth. SYKB



ANNEX 3
Page 5
would have to improve its portfolio management, diversify its sources of funds
domestically and externally and increase its capital, if its growth
- projections are to be achieved. These have been discussed with SYKB and
constitute important elements of its corporate strategy statement which was
reviewed by the appraisal mission.
14.      Over the long term, SYKB would need to diversify its business and
move into areas other than its main business of long-term finance. Long-term
viability on the basis of this product line alone will become more difficult
as spreads on this business becomre thinner due to greater competition. As
spreads decline very high collection levels would be needed to achieve even
modest profitability and even minor shocks in the economy could hurt SYKB's
profitability. Considering its large pipeline of funds available for
long-term lending, SYKB could easily be lulled into an attitude of business as
usual. Management would need to implement more aggressively its business
diversification plans and resist a tendency to postpone them.
15.      Conditions for Participation and Financial Covenants.  Despite being
a non-bank and not subject to the new provisioning decree, SYKM has agreed to
provide for its non-performing portfolio in the spirit of the provisions
decree. It has already set aside the provisions required under the decree for
loans which are not current and made preliminary provisions for loss of
creditworthiness. It is considered eligible to participate in the project
subject to the following conditions: a) that it issues a policy and corporate
strategy statement, as approved by its board and satisfactory to the Bank; and
b) that it signs a subsidiary loan agreement with the Government, satisfactory
to the Bank. To continue participating in the project, SYKB would have to
submit, together with its annual audit report, a certification from its
external auditors that it continues to meet the financial covenants under the
project as follows: a) a minimum debt-service-cover ratio of 1.1 to 1; b) a
minimum collection ratio on all its medium and long term loans of 75X; c) a
maximum debt-equity ratio of 10 to 1; and d) adequate provisions for bad loans
as required by the provisions decree of May 1988.
D. Vakiflar Bank (VB)
16.      Established in 1954 originally as the government commercial bank
responsible for administering the income and expenditures of public
foundations, Vakiflar Bank has evolved into a leading bank, ranking fifth in
deposits and seventh in total assets by the end of 1987. It is a well managed
bank with a track record of growth, profitability, liquidity and overall
financial scundness. Vakiflar's general manager, who has extensive experience
in the private and public banking sector, has set a strong leadership and
direction for the bank. Looking to the future, the appraisa'l mission assisted
the bank management team in strategic planning, by articulating its goals and
objectives in a policy statement and defining the means for attaining them
through a corporate strategy statement. It also helped the bank get into
medium-term projection exercises as the bank for the first time prepared a
three-year operational and financial projection.
17.      The bank has had significant experience in term-financing since 1974,
with term loans representing 17  of total loans by 1987.  In view of its goal
to become a diversified bank and to -increase its term loan portfolio, in
February 1988 the bank established a specialized group to handle the appraisal



ANNEX 3
Page 6
and supervision of project loans, with emphasis on general industrial and SMI
investment financing. The unit has a total staff of 24 professionals in
engineering, finance and economics. The preponderant expertise is in
engineering but it was agreed with the appraisal mission that this imbalance
would be remedied through appropriate training. Under the project, technical
assistance would be provided to assist the bank in this regard as well as in
general institution building.
18.      Although highly liquid, profitable and sound, Vakiflar Bank has not
articulated its guidelines for asset-liability management and general risk
management. The appraisal mission assisted the bank's management team in this
regard and agreements were reached on single borrower limits, group limits,
sub-sectoral concentration limits, liquidity management guidelines, currency
matching, foreign exchange trading guidelines, leveraging and loan-deposit
ratios. These guidelines would assist management in ensuring that the bank's
officers and staff continue to follow sound banking practices and are
important defensive tools in times of macroeconomic difficulties.
19.      Anticipating the new provisions decree, Vakiflar's management took
the initiative of providing adequately for its bad loans, by voluntarily
setting aside a significant amount for extraordinary loan loss provisions. As
of September 30, 1988, Vakiflar's accumulated provisions amounted to TL 72
billion, already representing the full amount of provisions required for loans
that are not current and a preliminary provision for loss of
creditworthiness. On a worst-case scenario that no additional collection
would be made from administrative and legal cases, Vakiflar would need to make
an additional provision of TL 42 billion by December 1988. This amount can be
readily covered by the earnings of 1988.
20.      Conditions for Participation and Financial Covenants.  To participate
in the proposed project, Vakiflar Bank would have to: a) prepare and issue a
policy and corporate strategy statement, approved by its board and
satisfactory to the Bank; and b) sign a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Government. To be able to continue participating in the project, Vakiflar
Bank would have to submit annually, together with its audit report, a
certification by its external auditors that: a) it is in compliance with the
original provisions decree of May 1988; b) it has a minimum collection ratio
on its medium- and long-term loans of at least 75%; c) it meets the capital
adequacy ratio prescribed in the Banking Law; and d) it has a minimum
debt-service-cover ratio of 1.2 to 1.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project Files
A.   General
1. Total Factor Productivity in Turkey (Bhosphorus University)
2.  Desktop Study on Productivity (Bhosphorus University)
3. Some Economic Indicators and Produ-tivity Measures in
the Turkish Economy (SYKB)
4.  Economic and Financial Appraisal at Small and Medium
Scale Industrial Establishments (ISO)
B.   Credit Component
1.  - Appraisal of Emlak Bank
- "Defining the Strategic Directions for Enlak Bank"
(September 9, 1988)
- Financial Projections - 1988-89
- Financial Statements - 1985-87
- Respon*es to Questionnaire of Pre-appraisal/Appraisal
Missions
- Articles of Association
- Resolution of the Council of Ministers - merging Emlalc Kredi
Bankasi and Anadolu Bankasi
- CVs of Senior Management
- Portfolio Audit - September 30, 1988
2. - Appraisal of Halk Bank
- Audited Financial Statements - 1987
- Portfolio Audit - September 30, 1988
- Annual Report - 1987
- Past Financial Performance - 1986-88
- Projected Financial Statements - 1989-91
- Institutional Review - March 1989
- Institutional Development Project - March 1989
3. - Appraisal of the Industrial Investment and Credit Bank
- Audited Financial Statements - 1987
- Annual Reports - 1985-87
- Financial Projections - 1988-92
- Preliminary Financial Statements - June 1988
4. - Appraisal of Vakiflar Bank
- Preappraisal Report on Vakiflar Bank (Consultant's Report)
- Audited Financial Statements - 1987
- Portfolio Audit - September 30, 1988
5. Subprojects Financed under Past SMI Projects



ANNEX 4
Page 2
C.   Technical Assistance Components
1. Protocol of CooFeration between the Turkish Standards Institute
and the Small Industry Development Organization
2. Research Proposal on Exploring Productivity in Istanbul's
Industrial Sector (Bhosphorus University)
3. Qua'ity Control Component (Consultant's Report)



