Page  1
 September 20, 1991
The Undersecretary of the Treasury and
 Foreign Trade
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
Mustesarligi
Bakanliklar
Ankara, Republic of Turkey
          Re:  Loan No. 3067 TU
               (Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Project)
               Amendment of the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
          We refer to the Loan Agreement (Second Small and Medium
Scale Industry Project) between the Republic of Turkey (the
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), dated June 28, 1989, as amended.  We also
refer to the Treasury's request contained in a letter from the
Deputy Director, World Bank Projects, to the Bank dated May 28,
1991, for approval of a separate Special Account for the purposes of
the technical assistance component financed under the Project.
          We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due
consideration, has acceded to the above request.  Accordingly, the
Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.        In Section 1.02, paragraph (j) is amended to read as
follows:
          "(j) "SYKB Special Account", "THB Special Account",
     "TVB Special Account", "EB Special Account" and "Technical
     Assistance Special Account" mean the Special Accounts which
     SYKB, THB, TVB, EB and the Borrower, respectively, shall open
     and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
     "Special Accounts" mean the SYKB Special Account, the THB
     Special Account, the TVB Special Account, the EB Special
     Account and the Technical Assistance Special Account
     collectively, and "Special Account' means each and any such
     account;"
2.        In Section 2.02, paragraph (d) is amended to read as
follows:
          "(d) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of their
respective activities under Part A of the Project, cause SYKB, THB,
TVB and EB to open and maintain, and for the purposes of Part B of
the Project, open and maintain, all in dollars, special deposit
accounts in a commercial bank or banks or in the Central Bank of
Turkey on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement."
3.        Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement is amended as set forth
in the Attachment to this letter.
          All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as
amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
           Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed
copy of this letter and returning it to us.
                                      Sincerely,
Page  2
                              /s/  Michael H. Wiehen
                          Director, Country Department I
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF TURKEY on 11/06/91
                      SCHEDULE 7
                   Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of this
Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-
loans may be made out of the relevant Special Accounts before the
Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof.  Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as
eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize
such withdrawals; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
each of SYKB, THB, TVB and EB, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into each of the
SYKB Special Account, the THB Special Account, the TVB Special
Account and the EB Special Account; and in respect of the Borrower,
an amount equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Technical Assistance Special Account,
all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the relevant
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, SYKB, THB,
TVB, EB or the Borrower as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf
of SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may be, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount
or amounts as SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may
be, shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, SYKB,
               THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may be,
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Bank shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case
               may be, shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
               4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
               the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
               on behalf of SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower,
               as the case may be, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as
               the case may be, shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
Page  3
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.  All such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account in the respective equivalent amounts
               as shall have been justified by said documents
               and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower,
as the case may be, out of a Special Account, SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or
the Borrower, as the case may be, shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by SYKB, THB,'TVB, EB or the
Borrower, as the case may be, directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  in the case of each of SYKB, THB, TVB and EB, once the
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Investment
Projects for which SYKB, THB, TVB or EB, as the case may be, is
responsible under Part A of the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to such
Investment Projects, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of relevant Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to such Investment Projects shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to SYKB, THB, TVB or EB, as the
case may be.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures; or
     (c)  in the case of the Borrower, once the total unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated for Part B of the Project for which
TURK EXIMBANK, TSE and SIS are responsible, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to such Part of
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
relevant Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated for Part B of the Project for which TURK EXIMBANK, TSE and
SIS are responsible, shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may be, shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may
be, has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
Page  4
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at an time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, SYKB, THB, TVB, EB
or the Borrower, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such, outstanding amount.
     (c)  SYKB, THB, TVB, EB or the Borrower, as the case may be,
may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
