Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3067 TU
         (Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI
                                and
                       TURKIYE HALK BANKASI
                                and
                     TURKIYE VAKIFLAR BANKASI
                                and
                       TURKIYE EMLAK BANKASI
                        Dated June 28, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 28,  1989  among the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank), and SINAI YATIRIM
VE KREDI BANKASI, TURKIYE  HALK  BANKASI, TURKIYE VAKIFLAR BANKASI
and TURKIYE EMLAK BANKASI  (collectively, the Participating Credit
Institutions or PCIs).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of  Turkey  (the  Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  an amount in various
currencies equivalent to  two  hundred  four  million five hundred
thousand dollars ($204,500,000), on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PCIs agree
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement; and
     (B)  by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and  PCIs,  a  portion  of  the  proceeds of the loan
Page  2
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
PCIs on terms and  conditions  set  forth  in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; and
     WHEREAS PCIs, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General  Conditions  (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part A of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of PCIs
     Section 2.01. PCIs declare their commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in  Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part  A  of the Project and
conduct their operations  and  affairs,  in  accordance with sound
financial standards and practices,  with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with their Charters and Statements of
Policy and Corporate Strategy.
     Section 2.02.  PCIs  undertake  that,  unless  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans  will  be  made  in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
     (b)  PCIs shall exercise  their  rights  in  relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and of PCIs;  (ii) comply with their obligations under
this Agreement  and  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements;  and (iii)
achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.04. PCIs shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
     Section 2.05. PCIs shall  duly  perform all their obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements.  Except  as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PCIs shall not take or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  assigning,  amending,  abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) PCIs  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project, the  performance  of  their obligations under this
Agreement and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PCIs shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part A of the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by  PCIs  of their obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Page  3
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a)  Each  PCI  shall  maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of its lending
operations under Part  A  of  the  Project  and of each Investment
Project financed by it (including its  cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and  to  reflect  in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the PCI.
     (b)  Each PCI shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have  reasonably  requested,  including  a separate
               opinion by said auditors  as  to whether the PCI is
               in   satisfactory   compliance   with   the   legal
               requirements referred to in  Sections 3.05 and 3.06
               of this Agreement; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. PCIs shall take  such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary  to  protect themselves against risk of
loss resulting from changes in  the  rates of exchange between the
various currencies used in their operations.
     Section 3.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SYKB shall not incur or  permit  any  Subsidiary to incur any debt
if, after the incurring  of  such  debt,  the consolidated debt of
SYKB and all its Subsidiaries  then incurred and outstanding would
exceed ten times the consolidated  capital and surplus of SYKB and
all its Subsidiaries.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "debt" means any  debt incurred by SYKB or
               any Subsidiary maturing  more  than  one year after
               the  date  on  which  it  is  originally  incurred,
               including debt assumed or  guaranteed by SYKB or by
               a Subsidiary;
         (ii)  debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent,  the  amount   of   such  debt  has  become
               outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into  but  only  to the extent the
               guaranteed debt is outstanding;
        (iii)  the term "consolidated  debt  of  SYKB  and all its
Page  4
               Subsidiaries" means  the  total  amount  of debt of
               SYKB and all  its  Subsidiaries, including any debt
               owed by SYKB to its shareholders, but excluding any
               debt owed  by  SYKB  to  any  Subsidiary  or by any
               Subsidiary to SYKB or to any other Subsidiary;
         (iv)  the term "consolidated capital  and surplus of SYKB
               and all its  Subsidiaries"  means  the aggregate of
               the total  unimpaired  paid-in-capital, surplus and
               free reserves (including  the  revaluation fund, if
               any) of and subordinated loans to SYKB  and all its
               Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
               as shall represent equity  interests of SYKB in any
               Subsidiary, or any  such  Subsidiary  in SYKB or in
               any other Subsidiary;
          (v)  the term  "subordinated  loan"  means  any  debt to
               mature after the  maturity  of any debt outstanding
               from time to time  from creditors other than share-
               holders of SYKB and  its Subsidiaries, such debt to
               be repaid in accordance  with  its terms only after
               all claims from such creditors have been satisfied;
         (vi)  whenever for purposes of  this  Section it shall be
               necessary to value  in  terms  of Turkish Lira debt
               payable in another  currency,  such valuation shall
               be made on the basis  of the prevailing lawful rate
               of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
               time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
               of servicing such debt, or,  in the absence of such
               rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Bank; and
        (vii)  amounts payable to SYKB  under any foreign exchange
               risk  coverage  scheme  of  the  Borrower  or under
               currency swap  arrangements  shall  be  deducted in
               calculating the amount of SYKB's debt.
     Section 3.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree: (a)
THB, TVB and EB shall each  maintain a debt service coverage ratio
of not less than 1.20; and  (b) SYKB shall maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of not  less  than  1.10.  Each such ratio shall be
calculated by dividing the sum of  the PCI's net income after tax,
interest payments adjusted  for  taxes,  provisions for losses and
loan collections by the sum  of  the  PCI's repayments of debt and
payments of interest, adjusted for taxes.
     Section 3.05. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, THB,
TVB and EB shall each take measures satisfactory to the Bank so as
to achieve, at the end of  each fiscal year beginning FY 1989, the
capital adequacy ratios as  prescribed  from time to time pursuant
to the Borrower's Banking Law.
     Section 3.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, each
PCI shall make, at the end  of each fiscal year beginning FY 1989,
adequate provision for bad  loans  as  prescribed under Decree No.
88-12937, dated May 23, 1988,  issued under the Borrower's Banking
Law.
     Section 3.07. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each PCI shall, by  the  end  of  FY  1989, achieve and thereafter
maintain a minimum cash collection ratio of 75% of the medium- and
long-term loans made by it.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "medium-term  loans"  means loans maturing
               more than one  year  but  not  more than five years
               after  the  date  on  which  they  were  originally
               incurred; and
         (ii)  the term  "long-term  loans"  means  loans maturing
Page  5
               more than five years  after  the date on which they
               were originally incurred.
     Section 3.08. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, each
PCI shall: (a) conduct its  operations  and affairs in such manner
as shall be  necessary  to  maintain  at  all  times the financial
ratios referred to in Sections 3.03., 3.04, 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07 of
this Agreement to the extent  applicable  to  such PCI; and (b) if
any such financial  ratio  shall,  for  reasons  beyond such PCI's
control,  not  be  achieved   or  maintained,  promptly  take  all
reasonable action as shall  be  necessary  or advisable to achieve
and/or maintain such financial ratio.
     Section 3.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, a PCI
shall not make any repayment in  advance of maturity in respect of
any of  its  debt  which,  in  the  judgment  of  the  Bank, would
materially affect such PCI's ability to meet its financial obliga-
tions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PCIs thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
           International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For SYKB:
           Sinai Yatirim Ve Kredi Bankasi
           Barbaros Bulvari, Akdogan Sokak 41-43
           Besiktas, Istanbul, 80690
           Turkey
           Cable address                    Telex:
Page  6
                YATIRIMBANK                   SYKB 26263 TR
                Istanbul
     For THB:
           Turkiye Halk Bankasi A.S
           Genel Mudurlugu
           Ilkiz Sokak No. 1
           Sihhiye, Ankara
           Turkey
           Cable address                    Telex:
                HALKBANKUM                    44223  HBTK TR
                ANKARA
     For TVB:
           Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi T.A.O.
           Ataturk Bulvari 207
           TR-06683 Ankara
           Turkey
           Cable address                    Telex:
                VAKIFBANK                     46136 VABG TR
                ANKARA
     For EB:
           Turkiye Emlak Bankasi A.S.
           Buyukdere, Cad. 45
           80670 Levent, Istanbul
           Turkey
           Cable address                    Telex:
                EMLAKBANK                     27780  ABTK TR
                MASLAK, ISTANBUL
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of a PCI or by a PCI on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be  taken or executed by its General
Manager, or by such other person or persons as the General Manager
shall designate in writing, and  the General Manager shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Page  7
                        SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                        TURKIYE HALK BANKASI
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                        TURKIYE VAKIFLAR BANKASI
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                        TURKIYE EMLAK BANKASI
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
