Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3067 TU
         (Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 28, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3067 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  28,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  Part A of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out by SINAI
YATIRIM VE  KREDI  BANKASI  (SYKB),  TURKIYE  HALK  BANKASI (THB),
TURKIYE VAKIFLAR BANKASI (TVB) and TURKIYE EMLAK BANKASI (EB) with
the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part  of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to SYKB, THB, TVB and EB a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
Page  2
ment of even date herewith between  the Bank, on the one hand, and
SYKB, THB, TVB and EB, on the other hand;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "PCIs"  mean   collectively   the  Participating  Credit
Institutions, being  SYKB,  THB,  TVB  and  EB,  which  shall have
satisfied the conditions of  eligibility  for participating in the
Project set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and "PCI" means
each or any of the Participating Credit Institutions;
     (b)  "Project Agreement" means  the  agreement among the Bank
and PCIs of even date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements"   mean  collectively  the
agreements to be entered into  between  the Borrower and PCIs pur-
suant to Section 3.01 (b)  of  this  Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan  Agreements;  and  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
means each or any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (d)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
a PCI out of the proceeds  of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project;
     (e)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (f)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an  enterprise to which a
PCI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Charter" means:
          (i)  with respect to  SYKB,  the Articles of Association
               dated March 16,  1963,  as  amended  to the date of
               this Agreement;
         (ii)  with respect to  THB,  the  Articles of Association
               dated October 28, 1984,  as  amended to the date of
               this Agreement;
        (iii)  with respect to  TVB,  the  Articles of Association
               dated April 13,  1954,  as  amended  to the date of
               this Agreement; and
         (iv)  with respect  to  EB,  the  Articles of Association
               dated January 8, 1988,  as  amended  to the date of
               this Agreement;
     (i)  "Statements  of  Policy  and  Corporate  Strategy"  mean
Page  3
collectively, with respect to  each  PCI, the statement of lending
and investment  policy  and  the  statement  of  business plans as
approved by its Board of Directors and amended from time to time;
     (j)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "SSI" means a small-scale  industry, being an Investment
Enterprise whose  fixed  assets  (excluding  land  and buildings),
before completion of  the  Investment  Project,  have an estimated
value, in constant 1988 prices, of $800,000 equivalent or less, or
which employs, before  completion  of  the  Investment Project, 50
workers or less;
     (l)  "MSI" means a medium-scale industry, being an Investment
Enterprise whose  fixed  assets  (excluding  land  and buildings),
before completion of  the  Investment  Project,  have an estimated
value, in constant 1988  prices, exceeding $800,000 equivalent but
not exceeding  $4,000,000  equivalent,  or  which  employs, before
completion of the Investment Project, more than 50 workers but not
more than 100 workers;
     (m)  "SMI" means small- and medium-scale industry;
     (n)  "FERIS"  means  the   Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Insurance
Scheme, operated pursuant to Decree  No. 31 of the Borrower, dated
March 27, 1985, as amended  to  the  date of effectiveness of this
Agreement;
     (o)  "TURK EXIMBANK" means the Export Credit Bank of Turkey;
     (p)  "IGEME" means  the  Export  Promotion  Center, operating
under the Borrower's Undersecretariat  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade;
     (q)  "ETC" means an Export Trading Company;
     (r)  "SIDO" means the Small Industry Development Organization
within the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Trade;
     (s)  "TSE" means the Turkish Standards Institute;
     (t)  "SIS"   means   the   Borrower's   State   Institute  of
Statistics;
     (u)  "Subsidiary" means any company  of which the majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietary interest is
owned or  effectively  controlled  by  a  PCI  or  by  one or more
subsidiaries of  a  PCI  or  by  a  PCI  and  one  or  more of its
subsidiaries;
     (v)  "TL"  or  "Turkish  Lira"  means  the  currency  of  the
Borrower; and
     (w)  "FY"  or  "fiscal  year"  means  a  PCI's  fiscal  year,
covering the period January 1 through December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
four million five hundred thousand dollars ($204,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account up  to  the equivalent of $200,000,000 under
Part A of the Project for  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by a  PCI  on account of withdrawals made by an
Investment Enterprise under  a  Sub-loan  to  meet 100% of foreign
expenditures, 50% of local  expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70%
Page  4
of  local  expenditures  for  other  items  procured  locally  for
equipment and materials, and to meet 30% of expenditures for civil
works (in the case of a  Sub-loan for an Investment Project in the
tourism  sector  only)  required  for  the  Investment  Project in
respect  of  which  the  withdrawal   from  the  Loan  Account  is
requested; provided, however,  that  no  withdrawal shall be made:
(i) in respect  of  a  Sub-loan  not  made  in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of
payments  made  for  expenditures  prior   to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.
     (b)  The amount of the  Loan  may  be withdrawn from the Loan
Account up to the  equivalent  of  $4,500,000  under Part B of the
Project for amounts paid (or,  if  the  Bank shall so agree, to be
paid) on account  of  withdrawals  made  to  meet  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70%
of  local  expenditures  for  other  items  procured  locally  for
equipment, vehicles and materials and to meet 100% of expenditures
for consultants' services and foreign training; provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be  made  in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
     (c)  For the  purpose  of  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
any currency other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any  country other than that of the
Borrower; and (ii)  the  term  "local expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency  of  the  Borrower  or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
     (d)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special account in the
Central Bank of the Borrower  on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as  practicable  after the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  5
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The Chief Executive  Officers of PCIs, or their
nominees, are designated  as  representatives  of the Borrower for
the purposes of  taking  any  action  required  or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of  Section  2.02 (a) of this Agreement
and Article V of  the  General  Conditions  in respect of the Sub-
loans for which they are  respectively responsible under Part A of
the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  without any limitation  or  restriction upon any of
               its other  obligations  under  the  Loan Agreement,
               shall cause PCIs to  perform in accordance with the
               provisions  of  the   Project   Agreement  all  the
               obligations of PCIs  therein  set forth, shall take
               and cause  to  be  taken  all  action  necessary or
               appropriate  to   enable   PCIs   to  perform  such
               obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be
               taken any action  which  would prevent or interfere
               with such performance; and
         (ii)  shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Part B
               of the Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency
               and in conformity  with appropriate administrative,
               financial  and   management   practices  and  shall
               provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
               services and other resources required for Part B of
               the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  a  portion of the proceeds of
the Loan to PCIs  under  subsidiary  loan agreements to be entered
into between the  Borrower  and  PCIs,  under terms and conditions
which shall have  been  considered  satisfactory  by  the Bank and
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such  manner  as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower  undertakes  that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, PCIs will make Sub-loans in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  maintain, or shall cause to
Page  6
be maintained,  procedures  and  records  adequate  to monitor and
record the progress of  the  Project  and to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
operations, resources and expenditures  in  respect of the Project
of the departments  or  agencies  of  the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               Section 4.01 of  this  Agreement  and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance   with    sound    auditing   principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning the said  records  and  accounts and the
               audit thereof as the  Bank  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
     (a)  Any  PCI  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement and/or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to which it is a party.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any PCI will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Charter or Statutes or  the Statements of Policy and
Page  7
Corporate Strategy of any PCI  shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the operations or the  financial condition of the PCI or
its ability to carry out Part  A  of the Project or to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment  of  any  PCI  or   for  the  suspension  of  its
operations.
     (e)  A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or  acquired  or  taken  over   by  any  PCI,  if  such  creation,
acquisition or taking over  would  adversely affect the conduct of
the PCI's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or  the  carrying  out  of  Part A of the
Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph   (a)  or  (e)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph   (c)  or  (d)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  have  been entered into
between the Borrower and at least two PCIs; and
     (b)  the Statements of Policy  and  Corporate Strategy of the
two PCIs referred to in paragraph  (a) above have been approved by
their respective Boards of Directors.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by PCIs, and is  legally  binding upon PCIs in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  referred  to in
Section 6.01 (a) of  this  Agreement  have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and are  legally  binding  upon, the Borrower and the
concerned PCIs in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  8
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
          Mustesarligi
          Bakanliklar - Ankara
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               MALIYE HAZINE                821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                            821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are:  (a) to further assist in
the  expansion  and  diversification  of  small-  and medium-scale
industries (SMIs), and, to this  end;  (b) to improve SMIs' access
to credit  to  finance  their  investment  needs  by  involving an
increasing number of  financial  intermediaries  in providing such
credit; (c) to provide technical and marketing services to SMIs to
assist them in improving their product quality and in competing in
local and export  markets;  and  (d)  to  improve understanding of
SMIs' problems  and  prospects  through  the  availability of more
reliable statistics for better policy and project formulation.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
Page  9
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Projects
     Financing of specific  development  projects through loans to
private enterprises in the SMI sector.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision  of  technical   advisory  services,  training  and
equipment to assist PCIs in  improving their project appraisal and
supervision  capabilities  and   their   information  systems  and
operating procedures relative to SMI financing operations.
2.   Provision  of  technical   advisory  services,  training  and
equipment, through TURK EXIMBANK acting in conjunction with IGEME,
to assist ETCs and their  supplier  firms in expanding SMI exports
and  to  promote  their  familiarity  and  cooperation  with other
institutions involved in the SMI export sector.
3.   Provision of technical advisory services, training, equipment
and vehicles  through  TSE  acting  in  conjunction  with SIDO, to
assist  in  the  promotion  of  higher  quality  standards amongst
enterprises in the SMI sector,  in the achieving of such standards
by such enterprises, and  in  the identification and certification
of such enterprises which have achieved such standards.
4.   Provision of technical advisory services, training, equipment
and vehicles to SIS to  assist in establishing an effective system
for collecting, processing  and  analyzing  statistics  on the SMI
sector.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1994
     through   October 15, 2005                    8,520,000
On April 15, 2006                                  8,540,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
Page  10
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                     1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 6 (d) of  Schedule  5  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan; (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
                Terms and Conditions for Relending
                     of Loan Proceeds to PCIs
1.   Except as the Borrower and  the Bank shall otherwise agree, a
PCI shall not be  eligible  for  participating  in the Project and
shall not have access to the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the PCI shall have  issued  its Statements of Policy and
Corporate Strategy to the satisfaction of the Bank;
     (b)  the PCI shall have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment with the Borrower to the satisfaction of the Bank; and
     (c)  the PCI shall have  carried  out a satisfactory audit of
its asset portfolio and  shall  have  made adequate provisions for
non-performing loans, all as prescribed pursuant to the Borrower's
Banking Law.
2.   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree:
     (a)  Initially, each PCI shall have access to an amount up to
the equivalent of $50,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan (the
initial allocation).
     (b)  If twelve (12) months after  the date of this Agreement,
Page  11
a PCI has not fulfilled the conditions of eligibility set forth in
paragraph 1  of  this  Schedule,  such  PCI  shall  cease  to be a
candidate for participation in the  Project and the Bank shall, in
consultation  with  the  Borrower,  transfer  such  PCI's  initial
allocation to one or more of the other PCIs.
     (c)  If a PCI has not  fully committed its initial allocation
within twenty-one (21) months of  the  date of this Agreement, the
Bank shall, in consultation with  the Borrower, transfer a part or
the whole of such  PCI's  remaining  initial  allocation to one or
more of the other PCIs.
3.   Except as the Borrower  and  the  Bank shall otherwise agree,
each PCI shall utilize at  least  30%  of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it for making Sub-loans to SSIs.
4.   (a)  Except as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank shall otherwise
agree, and subject to  the  provisions of Sub-paragraph (b) below,
the proceeds of the Loan relent to PCIs shall be subject to:
          (i)  payment  by  PCIs  of   a  commitment  fee  on  the
               unwithdrawn  amount  of   the   Loan  at  the  rate
               specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
         (ii)  payment by PCIs of  interest  on  the amount of the
               Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding  at  the  rate per
               annum determined in  accordance  with the rules and
               procedures prescribed under  FERIS  at the time the
               amount is withdrawn,  less an intermediation charge
               of 3% per annum; and
        (iii)  repayment by PCIs (aa)  of  the principal amount of
               the Loan which shall be the aggregate equivalent of
               the  amounts  withdrawn   from   the  Loan  Account
               expressed in  Turkish  Lira  determined  as  of the
               respective dates  of  withdrawal,  and  (bb) over a
               period determined in  accordance  with an amortiza-
               tion schedule which shall  conform in relevant part
               substantially to the  aggregate of the amortization
               schedules applicable to  the  Sub-loans made by the
               PCIs.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                    Terms and Conditions of and
                     Procedures for Sub-loans
A.   Terms and Conditions
1.   (a)  Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, a Sub-loan
shall only be made  to  an  eligible  Investment Enterprise for an
eligible Investment Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of this paragraph:
          (i)  The term "eligible  Investment Enterprise" means an
               enterprise which qualifies as  a  SSI  or a MSI, is
               privately-owned,  is  engaged  or  is  intending to
               engage   in   manufacturing,   repair,  processing,
               industrial  service,  mining  or  tourism,  and  in
               which, after completion  of the Investment Project,
               the  owners/stockholders  thereof,  shall  have  an
               equity investment  of  at  least  40%  in  terms of
               capital,   subordinated   loans   and/or   retained
               earnings.
         (ii)  The  term  "eligible  Investment  Project"  means a
               project which involves the establishment, expansion
               and/or balancing,  modernization  or replacement of
               plant  or  equipment,  and   to  which,  after  its
               completion,   the    owners/stockholders   of   the
               Investment Enterprise sponsoring  the project shall
Page  12
               have made an equity  contribution  of not less than
               50% of the total cost thereof.
2.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, no Sub-loan shall
be made:
     (a)  other than to finance  the fixed investment or permanent
working capital requirements of an Investment Project; or
     (b)  to an Investment Enterprise, if, after such Sub-loan has
been  made,  the  aggregate  amount   of  all  Sub-loans  to  such
Investment Enterprise shall exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
3.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, each application
for a Sub-loan shall be subject  to payment of an appraisal fee in
an amount  equivalent  to  0.1%  of  the  Sub-loan  amount but not
exceeding TL 10,000,000.
4.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan shall
be subject to:
     (a)  payment of a commitment fee on the unwithdrawn amount of
the Sub-loan  at  the  rate  specified  in  Section  2.04  of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payment of: (i) interest  on  the amount of the Sub-loan
withdrawn and outstanding at a rate per annum, to be determined in
accordance with the rules  and  procedures prescribed under FERIS;
and (ii) a commission fee on  the amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn
and outstanding at the rate of 2% per annum; and
     (c)  repayment over  a  period  of  eight  years, including a
grace  period  not  exceeding  three  years  to  be  determined by
reference to the medium- or  long-term  use of the Sub-loan and in
accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed under FERIS.
B.   Procedures
5.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than one  hundred  eighty  days  prior  to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under paragraph 6 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than  one  hundred  eighty days prior to the
date on  which  the  Bank  shall  have  received  the  request and
information required under  paragraph  6  (b)  of this Schedule in
respect of such  free-limit  Sub-loan.  For  the  purposes of this
Agreement, a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan  for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not  exceed  (i) a sum to be determined by
the Bank for each PCI not  later  than 60 days after the Effective
Date, in each case  when  added  to  any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan or of any other  loan,  provided  for in any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank  and  the  Borrower  or any PCI entered
into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have
been or are being used  for  financing goods and services directly
and materially related to such Investment Project, or (ii) the sum
of $150,000,000 equivalent,  when  added  to  all other free-limit
Sub-loans financed or proposed to  be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the  foregoing  amounts  being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Bank.
Page  13
6.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, a PCI shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Investment  Enterprise  and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including  a  description  of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan,  including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; (iii) wherever relevant,
a statement  as  to  the  environmental  impact  of the Investment
Project and, where necessary,  the  remedial action proposed to be
taken in connection therewith; and  (iv) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by a  PCI  for  authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain (i) a  summary  description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment  Project,  including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor;  and (iii) wherever relevant, a
statement as to the environmental impact of the Investment Project
and, where necessary, the remedial  action proposed to be taken in
connection therewith.
     (c)  Notwithstanding anything  to  the  contrary contained in
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)  of  this  paragraph,  in respect of at
least 10% of the  free-limit  Sub-loans  made  by  it, a PCI shall
furnish to the Bank  the  documents  referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a)(i) through (iv) of this paragraph for ex post facto review.
     (d)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1994.
7.   Sub-loans shall  be  made  on  terms  whereby  each PCI shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and the PCI, including the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6  to this Agreement and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank or the PCI shall
reasonably request relating to  the  foregoing  and to the admini-
stration, operations  and  financial  condition  of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits  to  be derived from the Investment
Project; and
Page  14
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise  (i)  to  utilize  such  proceeds,  at least
partially, within six months  of  the  approval of the Sub-loan by
the Bank, or (ii)  to  perform  its obligations under its contract
with the PCI.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
1.   Items of goods and  services  procured outside the Borrower's
territory and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each or groups of such  items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more per  contract  shall  be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a  list  of  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in  May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Items of goods  and  services  procured  locally and items of
goods and services procured  outside  the Borrower's territory and
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  less  than $100,000 each or
groups of such items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$500,000 per contract may  be  procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the  standard  procedures  of PCIs satisfactory to
the Bank. In such cases,  PCIs  shall  certify that the items were
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors  such  as  time  of  delivery  and efficiency and
reliability  of  the   goods   and   availability  of  maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor.
3.   Civil works for Investment Projects in the tourism sector may
be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  local
competitive bidding in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.   Records shall be maintained by PCIs in a form satisfactory to
the  Bank  showing  the   methods  of  procurement  approved,  the
summaries of quotations received  and  awards made under each Sub-
loan.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order  to  assist  PCIs,  TURK  EXIMBANK,  TSE  and SIS in
carrying out Part B of  the  Project, PCIs, TURK EXIMBANK, TSE and
SIS  shall  employ  financial,  export  marketing,  technical  and
economic consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and terms
and conditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Investment Projects under Part A of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.02 (a)  of  this  Agreement , provided, however, that
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, payments for  expenditures  to  be financed out ofthe proceeds  of  
Page  15
free-limit  Sub-loans  may  be  made  out of the
Special Account before the  Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the  Loan  Account  in  respect  thereof.  Such expenditures,
however, shall qualify as  eligible  expenditures only if the Bank
shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $12,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account in the equivalent amounts  as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Loan less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General Conditions with
respect to Part A of  the  Project,  shall equal the equivalent of
$24,000,000 being twice the  amount  of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
Page  16
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was  not  justified  by  the  evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
