Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14966-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
POPIULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1995
Human Resources Operations; Divisions
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
November 1995
Currency Unit           = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
US$ 1.00                =  l1,018 VND
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Square meter (m2)    =  1.2 square yards
I kilometre (kcm)       = 0.62 miles
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AR1            Acute Respiratorv Infections
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBD            Community-Based Distribution/Distributor
CPFPB          Commune Population and Family Planning Board
CHC            Commune Health Centre
CIF            Cost, Insurance. Freight
CDD            Control of Diarrhea] Diseases
CPR            Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DCPFP          District Comnnittee for Population and Fantijy Planning
DHC            District Health Centre
EC             Executive Committee
EPI            Expanded Program of Immunization
FP             Family Planning
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GSO            General Statistical Office
GTZ            Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICDS           Intercensal Demographic Survey
ICPD           International Conference on Population and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
fEC            Information, Education and Communication
IPMN           Institute for the Protection of Mothers and Newborn
IUD            Intra-Uterine Device
KIW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MCHIFP         Matemal and Child Health and Family Planning
MIS            Management Information System
Mon            Ministry of Health
MOLISA         Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs
MPI            Ministrv of Planning and Investment
MRS            MultiRound Survey
MR             Menstrual Regulation
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NCPFP          National Committee for Population and Family Planning
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PCPFP          Provincial Committee for Population and Family Planning
PHC            Primary Health Care
PHRD           Policy and Human Rcsource Development Fund
PMU            Project Management Unit
PPMU           Provincial Project Management Unit
PPTA           Project Preparation Technical Assistance
PSC            Project Steering Committee
PU             Project Unit
RTI            Reproductive Tract Infection
RMV            Resident Mission. Vietnam
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TFR            Total Fertility Rate
TT             Tetanus Toxoid
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VNDHS          Viet Nam Demographic and Health Survey
VLSS           Vietnam Living Standards Survey
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
IDA       : July I - June 30



- iii -
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table Of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................             vi
1.     TH E    SEC TO R .........................................I
A.  Sectoral History and Conditions .1
Country Background                             .I
Sector History and Status                        .2
B.   Current Issues and Needs in the Sector .12
Family Hlealth                                                         12
Population and Family Planning .14
C. Bank Experience .17
Lessons frrom Previous IDA Experience .17
Country Assistance Strategy .18
Rationale for IDA Involvement .19
2.     THE     PROJECT .........................................                      20
A.    Objectives and Scope of the Project ........................................  20
Overall lPurpose and Scope of the Project ........................................ 20
Broad Project Goals ........................................ 20
Specific Project Objectives and Indicators ........................................ 23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Viet Nam in June-July,
1995. The mission comprised Althea Hill (Task Manager and Mission Leader, EAIHR), Rama
Lakshminaravanan (Public Health Specialist, EAIHR), Claudia von Monbart (Economist, Paris
Office), Ji An Zhou (Cost Analyst, EAIHR), Mohinder Virdy (Procurement Specialist, ASTTP),
S. Subramanian (Disbursement Specialist, New Delhi Office), Laura Shrestha (Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, HDD), Ved Kumar (Pharmaceuticals and Logistics Consultant) and Dr.
Alex Zinanga (Family Plamning Consultant). Contributions to the report were also made by
Nguyen Van Minh (Operations Officer, RMV), Maria MacDonald (Population Specialist,
ASTHR) and consultants funded under Japanese Grants to the World Bank and Asian
Development Bank for project preparation, including Pradeep Kakkar (IEC and Management
Specialist), Mario Taguiwalo (Management Specialist), Rami Chhabra (IEC Specialist), Jennifer
Huddart (Training Specialist), Susan Mitchell (Private Sector Specialist), Bruce Geisert (MIS
Specialist) and Cyril Bowman (Architect). Peer Reviewers for the project were Tom Merrick
(Senior Population Adviser, HDD), James Socknat (Chief, ASTHR) and Willy de Geyndt (Public
Health Specialist, ASTHR.). The report was produced by Emily Mwai (EA1HR), assisted by
Joyce Bruce (EAIHR). Desiree Jessimy (EAlHR), coordinated report production. The report was
cleared by Sven Burmester (Chief, EAIHR) and Callisto Madavo (Director, EAI).



- iv -
B.         Structure and  Content of the Project .................................................. 25
Component 1:  Provincial Service Delivery .                                    ........................................ 25
Component 2:  IEC  ..................................................                                        28
Component 3:  Contraceptive Supplies ............................................... 28
Component 4: FP Management and Institutional Development ....... 29
Component 5:  Service Delivery  Model Initiatives ............................. 30
3.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT ...............................................                                                        33
A.         Cost Estimates  ...............................................                                              33
B.         Financing  Plan ................................................                                              36
C.         Procurenient ................................................                                                38
D.         Disbursement ................................................                                                 41
4.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................... 45
A.         Project Management Arrangements                                          .................................... 45
B.         Project Accounts and  Auditing ....................................                                          46
C.         Project Monitoring, Evaluation  and  Reporting .................................. 47
D.         Project Impact on  Social Issues                                         .................................... 49
E.         Environmental Aspects of the Project ....................................                                    52
F.         Project Sustainability ....................................                                                  52
5.         BENEFITS  ANI) RISKS  ................................................:. 55
A.         Benefits  ...............................................                                                    55
B.         Risks ...............................................                                                        56
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    .. 58
7.   TEXT TABLES
Table 2.1   Matrix of Policy Principles, Strategies, Project Activities
and Key  Indicators  ..............................................                                             21
Table 2.2           Desired Melthod Mix Among  Contraceptive Users, 1994-2002 .................. 29
Table 3.1           Project Cost Summary by Component ..............................................                                 35
Table 3.2          Project Costs Summary by Expenditure Category ...................................... 36
Table 3.3           Summary of'Proposed  Procurement Arrangements .................................... 39
Table 3.4           Implementaition  Schedule                                         .............................................. 42
Table 3.5          Disbursement Schedule and Profile ..............................................                                43
Table 3.6           Disbursement Categories ..............................................                                          44



8.        FIGURES
Figure 1    Disbursement Profile ................................................   43
9.          ANNEXES
Annex 1:   The Primary Health Care System in Viet Nam ........................................... 61
Annex 2:   The Family Planning System in Viet Nam  ............................................... 65
Annex 3:   Criteria for Selection of Provinces for PHC Upgrading .............................. 67
Annex  4:   M atrix  of Project Indicators            ............................................... 68
Annex 5:   Package of ][nputs for Upgrading of Provincial PHC Systems ..................... 86
Annex 6:   Outline of IEC Strategy and Activities Under the Project ......................... 105
Annex 7:   Projections of Contraceptive Use and Costs ............................................ 113
Annex 8:   Logistics ArTangements for Project Commodities  .................................... 119
Annex 9:   Outline of Strategy and Inputs for MIS and Management Training
Under the Project ................................................ 120
Annex 10:  Administrative Arrangements for the Service Delivery Model Initiatives.. 128
Annex 11:  Indicative List of Topics To Be Financed Under the Service
Delivery Model Initiatives    ........................................... .... 130
Annex 12:  Project Costs By Component, Category of Expenditure and Year            142
Annex 13: Project Management Arrangements                       .                  151
Annex 14: Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .154
Annex 15:  Special Strategies for Ethnic Minorities .170
Annex 16: Project Sustainability Analysis .177
Annex 17:  Outline of the Implementation Volume .181
Annex 18:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .188
10.       MAPS
Map No. IBRD 27336:          Location of Provinces With PHC Systems To Be Upgraded
Under the Population and Family Health Project and the
National Health Support Project
Map No. IBRD 27337:         Provinces Classified By UNICEF Poverty Classification
Map No. IBRD 27338:         Ethnic Minorities as a Percentage of Total Provincial
Populations, 1989
Map No. IBRD 27339:          Infant Mortality Rate By Province, 1989
Map No. IBRD 27340:          Total Fertility Rate By Province, 1989






- vi -
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
Guarantor:               Not Applicable
Implementing Agency:    National Committee for Population and Family Planning
Beneficiary:             Not Applicable
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  SDR 33.6 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity and 10 years of grace
Commitment Fee:          0.5%  of undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Not Applicable
Financing Plan:          See Para. 3.7
Net Present Value:       Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 14966-VN
Map Nos.:                IBRD 27336 - 27340
Project Identification No.: 4841






1. THE SECTOR
A. SECTORAL HISTORY AND CONDITIONS
Country Background
I. I   After several decades of war and disunity, Viet Nam was unified under socialism in
1975. In 1989, Government launched a successful program of adjustment and reform
("Doi Moi"), with the aim of achieving macroeconomic structural reform, liberalization
and stabilization   Structural reforms included the decollectivization of agriculture,
liberalization of prices and foreign trade, and contraction of state enterprises and subsidies.
Under this program, real annual GDP growth has averaged 7 percent, inflation rates and
the fiscal deficit have been substantially reduced, and exports have grown by more than 30
percent per annum to become a leading sector in the economy. Prospects for the coming
decade are bright.
1.2   Viet Nam also continues to benefit from many positive legacies of the decades of
socialist rule. The distribution of consumption is relatively equal by comparison with
other countries, and an impressive network of basic social services has been put in place
over the past three decades. As a result, 88 percent of all adults are literate, including 84
percent of adult women, while 78 percent of children aged 6-10 years are enrolled in
primary school. Life expectancy is currently estimated at around 67 years and infant
mortality at around 40 per 1,000 live births. More than 94 percent of children survive
their first five years of life.
1.3   However, Viet Nam still remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with a
per capita income estimated at under US$200. About one quarter of the population is too
poor to afford an adequate daily basic food intake, and more than half of all young
children are stunted. Between 40 and 50 percent of the population are below a poverty
line that includes expenses for both food and non-food basic needs.  Though the
adjustment and reform program provided much more broadly-based benefits than in other
transition economies because of the dominant role of family-based agriculture, and though
its social costs have been relatively mild, the poorest groups are still disadvantaged and
likely to lag behind without continuing special attention. A combination of broad-based
economic growth with continued access for the poor to basic social services will be
essential for long-term national economic development and poverty reduction.
1.4   Reduction of population growth will make a vital contribution to both economic
growth and poverty alleviation. Viet Nam's population now stands at around 73 million, a
35 percent increase over the 54 million enumerated in the census of 1979 shortly after
reunification. Pressure on the country's agricultural and forest land is acute. Despite
recent falls in fertility, the population is still growing at over 2 percent per annum, due to a



- 2 -
combination of extremely low mortality with the large cohorts in the young reproductive
ages resulting from past high fertility.  If this rate of growth were maintained, the
population would double within the next 33 years. Dependency ratios are also still high,
resulting in heavy costs in education and child health care relative to productive capacity.
Fertility urgently needs to be reduced to replacement level and maintained there if Viet
Nam's productive potential is to be maximized.
1.5    Viet Nam's development strategy is directed at five specific objectives: (1) to
maintain macroeconomic stability; (2) to make a steady transition to an open market
economy; (3) to improve basic infrastructure; (4) to alleviate poverty and reduce regional
inequalities; (5) to preserve the nation's natural resource base so that economic
achievements can be sustained over the long term. Development of the population and
health sectors is closely linked to the objectives of poverty alleviation, reduction of
regional inequalities and natural resource sustainability.
Sector History and Status
1.6    Health Status. Viet Nam has achieved an extraordinarily low level of mortality
for its income and stage of development. Nevertheless, its main health problems remain
those common to most developing countries.  Infectious and parasitic diseases,
particularly TB, malaria and acute respiratory infections (ARIs), are still a substantial
threat to the population at large.  Among children, the communicable diseases of
childhood have declined rapidly in incidence and severity following the success of the
Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), but ARIs and diarrheal diseases are still major
killers of children and constitute their most important health problems. Nearly 60 percent
of infant deaths are due to these two groups of diseases.  Severe and acute child
malnutrition is now very uncommon, but chronic undernutrition manifested as stunting is
still the fate of the majority. Among infants, prematurity, low birthweight and problems in
delivery are also major causes of death and ill-health. For women, pregnancy and delivery
are still important health risks, with estimates of the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) in
1990 ranging from 110 to over 200 per 100,000 live births. Other major health problems
for women include a very high prevalence of anaemia, at two thirds of all pregnant
women, and widespread reproductive tract infections (RTIs). According to the 1993
World Development Report (WDR) "Investing in Health", the vast bulk of all these
conditions can be successfully prevented or treated in a highly cost-effective manner
within a primary health care (PHC) system, backed by appropriate first-level referral
facilities and selected additional disease control interventions.
1.7   Primary Health Services. A life expectancy of 67 years could not have been
achieved in a country as poor and as war-affected as Viet Nam without extremely effective
basic health services. Viet Nam was in fact one of the pioneers of primary health care (see
Annex I for a detailed description of the system), and has achieved a vast, dense and staff-
intensive network of health facilities far exceeding those of its much richer neighbors. The



- 3 -
ratio of the lowest-level health facility (the commune health centre, or CHC) per million
population is around 170 in Viet Nam, compared with 32 in Indonesia, 63 in China and
141 in Thailand; each CHC is staffed with about four health workers including an assistant
doctor, a secondary midwife, a nurse and a pharmacist. Average traveling time to obtain a
modern contraceptive method (mostly supplied through public facilities) is reported to be
only 20 minutes. Only three percent of rural households live in communes without a
CHC, and a Government-financed program of CHC construction plans to fill these gaps
within the next few years. Similarly, Viet Nam's hospital bed ratio of one per 389 persons
compares favorably with one per 465 in China, 665 in Thailand and 1,743 in Indonesia.
1.8    Viet Nam is also performing relatively well in terms of many basic primary health
care programs, given the lack of adequate financing which continues to be a major
constraint to full coverage and effectiveness.  According to the 1994 Intercensal
Demographic Survey (ICDS), seventy five percent of children have received at least one
immunization. Over 40 percent of pregnant women are receiving full tetanus toxoid
vaccination. The Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD) program, which focuses on use of
oral rehydration therapy, is being expanded, it now covers over 80 percent of all
communes and more than half of CHC staff are fully trained. Most mothers are reported
to maintain or increase normal levels of fluids for children with diarrhea and to continue
breastfeeding them, although use of packaged oral rehydration salts or home solutions
itself is still low. The ARI control program is now estimated to cover 40 percent of all
children across all provinces, though less than a quarter of children yet receive the correct
antibiotic treatment. According to the 1994 ICDS, 55 percent of mothers receive some
ante-natal care from a medical or paramedical professional, and nearly 60 percent deliver
in health facilities. Forty four percent of married women are using a modern family
planning method.
1.9   Most of this primary health care was and is delivered at the CHCs and District
Health Centres (DHCs), which in many ways form a partnership through which DHCs
supplement and support CHCs through supervision, referral and mobile teams which tour
CHCs to deliver services beyond the capability of CHC staff For example, the 1994
ICDS reported that 37 percent of all mothers delivered at CHCs, and another 9 percent at
DHCs, together making up more than 80 percent of all institutional deliveries. Likewise,
45 percent of women using modern contraception obtained it at CHCs in 1988 and 44
percent in 1994, according respectively to the 1988 Viet Nam Demographic and Health
Survey and the 1994 ICDS.
I.10  However, the disappearance in recent years of the agricultural cooperative system
which largely financed and supported CHC staff (see para. 1.13), combined with pressures
on public expenditure since the late 1980s, has resulted in a marked deterioration of the
public health service at all levels. This is manifest in dilapidated buildings, acute shortages
of furniture, equipment and supplies, and low morale and productivity of health workers
due to declining real salaries and poor working conditions. In some facilities, health



- 4 -
workers have not only been sleeping on the premises during their duty but staying there
on a longer-term basis. While there are still no shortages of health staff on paper, except
for secondary midwives, many health workers are now said to be working only a few
hours per day in health facilities, in order to supplement their salaries through other
income-earning activities. At the same time, the cost of using public health care has risen
through the introduction in 1989 of official user fees for all facilities except CHCs, and
private health practitioners and pharmacies have been licensed.
1.11   As a result of all these factors, utilization rates for public health facilities have
fallen dramatically for clinical and in-patient services. Numbers of annual out-patient
consultations halved from 2.1 per capita in 1987 to 0.9 in 1993, and numbers of annual
inpatient admissions fell from 105 per 1,000 population to 68 in 1990. Many CHCs and
DHCs are said to be catering to less than 10 outpatients seeking minor curative care per
day, and performing only a few deliveries per month. According to recent data from the
1992-93 Viet Nam Living Standards Survey (VLSS), one third of the population currently
go to any health practitioner when sick, with the other two-thirds resorting to self-
medication. Among the poorest 20 percent of the population, 70 percent self-medicate.
The degree of substitution between public and private providers over time is not known,
but of those who do see a health practitioner, more than half currently see a private
provider; poorer patients are more likely to see a paramedic and richer patients a doctor.
Among public facilities, the poorest are more likely to visit CHCs and richer groups a
hospital. Thus the poor gravitate towards the lowest levels of service in both private and
public sectors for curative care, no doubt because they entail the least immediate direct
expense.
1.12   The overall picture is thus of a public health care sector which has reached a
crossroads. Basic primary health care interventions of a preventive or palliative nature are
being delivered, but coverage is still well below satisfactory levels and the quality of
services is uncertain. If facilities and staffing continue to deteriorate, and resources are
not forthcoming for upgrading and maintaining a well-supplied and well-functioning
system, it is likely that even these basic PHC services will cease to perform adequately.
Because of resource constraints and the ready availability of pharmacies, the public system
is already little used by any section of the population for basic curative care.
1.13   Financing of Health Services. Data on health expenditure for Viet Nam are
weak and need further review  and analysis.  However, on the basis of available
information, it appears that state financing for the public health care system is split
between central and local government budgets. The centre picks up the costs for central
and branch hospitals, preventive health care (including the national malaria, TB and ARI
control programs, EPI and the national MCH program), medical training and medical
research, amounting all together to about one quarter of the state budget for health. The
other three-quarters of the budget is spent by local (provincial and district) governments,
which finance the costs of their respective hospitals with district budgets also picking up



some costs for CHCs. The salaries of CHC staff and maintenance of CHC facilities were in
the past supported almost entirely outside the state health budget by the commune
agricultural cooperatives, through contributions in cash, kind or labor. However the
collapse of the cooperative system has reduced commune-level financing to derisory
levels. A decision was therefore made in 1994 to phase in financing of CHC staff salaries
by the regular state health budget over the next three years, with two-thirds of communes
covered so far.
1.14  In 1993, overall state budget expenditures on health amounted to 1,442 billion
dong (about US$144 million), or some 20,000 dong (US$2) per capita; this was about half
the budget for education. About 90 percent of this amount was spent on curative care in
hospitals and only about 2 percent on CHCs. According to the 1992-3 VLSS, another
7,500 billion (US$750 million) dong were spent directly on health care by households, or
some 104,000 dongs (US$10) per capita Almost all of this private expenditure went for
purchase of drugs. Thus total per capita annual health spending in Viet Nam would be
around US$12, most of it used for medicines.
1.15  By comparison, the 1993 WDR estimates that a minimal package of essential
clinical health services would cost about US$8 per capita in a low-income country, all
calculated to be highly cost-effective and all to be delivered at district and lower levels of
the health system.  A further basic package of "public health" programs (including
immunization and family planning), which benefit the entire community and are also highly
cost-effective, would cost another US$4. The two packages together would make up
US$12 per capita, or roughly what Viet Nam already spends. It would seem therefore,
that total health expenditure in Viet Nam could be adequate for basic health needs,
provided the allocation of spending were appropriate. Since health budgets and data on
private expenditure in Viet Nam are insufficiently detailed to separate out spending by the
-R basic needs categories, it is impossible to judge just how appropriate current
patterns of expenditure actually are. However, it seems extremely likely that too little is
being spent at the lower levels of public and private health systems and on basic cost-
effective clinical and "public health" services.
1.16  Development of Family Planning Policies and Programs.  Concern over
population growth has a long history in Viet Nam. Rapid population growth in the Red
River Delta, an area of recurring past food shortages, induced the government in northern
Viet Nam to promulgate an official population policy as early as 1963. The goals of this
policy were set as a reduction of the current population growth rate of 3.5 percent to 2
percent and achievement of an average family size of 2 to 3 children with 5-6 years spacing
between births. To support the policy, use of condoms and the MJD was promoted and
abortion services began to be made available at health facilities. No equivalent policies
were established in southern Viet Nam, where the pronatalist attitudes of the French
colonial regime and the Catholic church had long been dominant, but family planning
services were available in urban areas. However the subsequent decade of war severely



limited resources for family planning throughout the country, though USAID did begin
funding for population and FP programs in the South in the early 1970s.
1.17  After reunification, Government took a succession of steps to standardize and
increase the availability and uptake of family planning throughout Viet Nam, spurred on by
alarm over the rapid growth of population revealed by the 1979 census. The Family Law
of 1977 attempted to promote the protection of women's rights, and the Ministry of
Health (MOH) worked to improve availability of FP and abortion services through public
sector facilities with help from the Institute for the Protection of Mothers and Newborn
(IPMN). A cadre of volunteer outreach workers, called "motivators", was also established
at the hamlet level by various mass organizations, such as the Women's Union, the
Peasants' Union and the Farmers' Union; their task was to promote the adoption of family
planning among hamlet families.
1.18  In 1984, the National Committee for Population and Family Planning (NCPFP)
was set up to implement the national population policy and to direct the national family
planning program. A large part of NCPFP's staff was drawn from MOH, and a major
principle of its mandate was that family planning services would continue to be delivered
entirely through the health system. The NCPFP was to contract out the actual delivery of
FP and abortion services to MOH, but would coordinate all population and family
planning activities in the country and would itself implement a nationwide program to
promote family planning through social mobilization efforts. To this end, a network of
subsidiary committees was established at provincial (PCPFPs), district (DCPFPs) and
commune (CPFPBs) level, all with participation of the corresponding level of People's
Committees, mass organizations and health authorities.
1.19  In 1988, Viet Nam officially introduced a national "one-child or two-child" policy,
formalizing a system of childbearing guidelines, free provision of contraceptives and
abortion, and economic incentives and disincentives. Following the licensing of a private
health sector, FP and abortion services also became openly available through the private
sector, though public facilities are still by far the most important providers. In 1993, the
NCPFP set up its own nationwide cadre of hamlet-level outreach workers called
"collaborators", who receive a small allowance plus performance-based incentives for the
promotion of family planning, including distribution of condoms and oral contraceptives.
Annex 2 provides a detailed description of the entire current system of family planning
activities.
1.20  Donor Activities. Several donors have been active in the population and family
planning fields in Viet Nam. USAID provided some support in the south during the early
1970s, but this ceased in 1975 and has not been resumed to date. The major donor since
reunification has been UNFPA, who are now nearing the end of their fourth year country
assistance cycle and have been contributing about US$4-5 million per year to the FP
program. They have provided assistance for a full range of population and family planning



- 7 -
activities, comprising demographic and FP data collection and research (including the
1989 census, the 1988 Viet Nam Demographic and Health Survey, and the 1994
Intercensal Demographic Survey), FP/MCH services, contraceptive supplies and
equipment, IEC (including population education), training and MIS. The fifth country
cycle is currently under preparation. Other donors in the field include UNICEF, GTZ,
Australia and various NGOs, who have mainly supported small projects in selected
provinces.
1.21  Family Planning Status.  These family planning efforts were remarkably
successful in their early stages. The 1988 Viet Nam Demographic and Health Survey
(VNDHS) reported a national contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of 53 percent of
currently married women of reproductive age, with 95 percent of married women knowing
of at least one modem family planning method. This total CPR was made up of a CPR for
modem methods of 38 percent and a CPR for "non-modern", "traditional" or "natural"
methods (mainly withdrawal and rhythm) of 15 percent. The total fertility rate (TFR) was
estimated from the same survey and from the 1989 census at just under 4 births per
woman for the previous year, down from over 6 in the late 1950s and around 5 in 1979.
Moreover, norms of fertility control and small families appeared to be taking hold;
according to the VNDHS, the average preferred number of children for young married
women (those married less than 5 years) was 2.6 and only 35 percent of all women wanted
any more children.
1.22  This success was achieved using a remarkably limited and inexpensive approach to
FP service delivery. Of current acceptors in the 1988 VNDHS, 62 percent were using the
IUD, amounting to one-third of all currently married women in Viet Nam. Another 29
percent of contraceptors were using "traditional" or "natural" methods, mainly consisting
of withdrawal and rhythm. The third most important method was sterilization (mostly
mini-laps, rarely post-partum) at 6 percent of contraceptors. Only two percent were using
condoms and less than one percent the pill. Thus the vast majority of FP users were
relying on methods that either entailed no cost at all or required only very infrequent, or
once-off, minor surgical procedures with minimal supplies and re-usable equipment.
Although traditional methods usually have high user failure rates, experience even in
developed countries such as the USA shows that procedure-based methods are among the
most cost-effective of contraceptive choices.
1.23  Moreover, most modern FP services, and hence most of the procedures, have been
and are provided through lower-level public health facilities. In 1988, almost all family
planning users had obtained modem methods from the public sector; 45 percent had
received services at CHCs, 37 percent at district hospitals or intercommunal polyclinics,
and 12 percent at provincial hospitals. Even by 1993 and 1994, only about 10-11 percent
of all modem-method FP users had obtained a method privately according to the VLSS
and ICDS, and the VLSS reported that they were largely users of pills and condoms.
Given Viet Nam's generously-staffed and extremely dense network of public health



- 8 -
facilities, and their low current case-loads at the lower levels, the provision of minor
outpatient procedures such as IUD insertions, mini-laps and vasectomies (nowadays
mainly done with the minimal no-scalpel technique) would entail minimal incremental costs
per family planning user.
1.24  Unfortunately this method mix, however cost-efficient, is far from optimal from
the standpoint of reproductive and women's health. Heavy use of IUDs is problematic in
the circumstances of 'Viet Nam for several reasons. The presence of the device may
promote or exacerbate existing RTIs and the insertion procedure itself carries an
additional risk of introducing infection unless done with the utmost skill and vigilance.
These general risks become a cause for serious concem where the incidence of RTIs is
already high, as in Viet Nam. All but the recently developed progestin-bearing IUDs often
induce heavy menstrual bleeding, which is undesirable where high percentages of women
are already anaemic, as in Viet Nam. In addition, the IUD does have a significant, though
small, failure rate; and armong those pregnancies that occur with the device still in place, a
high proportion will spontaneously abort at any stage of gestation. This additional burden
on women's health is particularly undesirable where the abortion rate is already high, as in
Viet Nam.
1.25   Heavy use of withdrawal and rhythm is also problematic. Though these methods
appear to carry little or no health risks in themselves, their failure rate is high among all
but the most committed and well-supervised users. This in turn is likely to result in high
rates of abortion. The usefulness of sterilization is limited. It is an essential part of any FP
program for older couples who decide that they have completed their families, but it is
inevitably restricted to this category of user and cannot be used for the spacing of births so
important to matemal and child health. The major gap in the program method mix at
present is thus the lack of effective, non-invasive, easily reversible methods that can be
used for birth spacing purposes and by younger couples who have not completed their
families. Pills and injectables are the most important methods in this category, followed by
the condom, which also protects against RTIs, and Norplant.
1.26  Over the years, Viet Nam had thus developed a cost-efficient and initially effective
family planning prograrn, which however suffered from some important deficiencies.
Perhaps because of these, the program's progress appears to have slowed in recent years.
The 1993 Multiround Survey (MIS) reported only an insignificant further rise in the total
CPR to 54 percent, with a small rise in the modem methods CPR to 41 percent and a
small decline in the non-modern methods CPR to 13 percent. Corresponding values for the
much smaller-sample 1992-93 VLSS were a somewhat higher total CPR of 57 percent,
which however included much multiple use of traditional methods with modern methods.
The 1994 Intercensal Demographic Survey (ICDS) reported a sharp rise in the total CPR
to 65 percent, but the C]PR for modern methods increased only marginally to 44 percent,
while the CPR for non-rnodern methods jumped to 21 percent. Thus overall, the use of
modern methods of contraception appears to have risen by only six points between 1988



-9-
and 1994, from 38 percent to 44 percent, with an equivalent increase occurring in the use
of non-modern methods from 15 percent to 21 percent.
1.27  The pattern oif FP method mix did not evolve significantly in any desirable
direction during the six years between 1998 and 1994. The 1992-93 VLSS showed much
the same method mix as in 1988, except for slightly increased pill and condom use and
some multiple use of traditional methods in combination with them. The 1993 MRS also
reported a broadly similar mix, though the range of methods had widened. Use of the IUD
had risen a little to 65 percent of contraceptors; the share of sterilization had remained
constant at 6 percent; use of pills and condoms had risen to around 3 percent each;
another fraction of a percent were using injectables, Norplant or diaphragms; and the share
of traditional methods had fallen a little to 21 percent.
1.28  The 1994 ICDS did report some changes, but these cannot be viewed as positive
overall. Similar percentages of contraceptors as in 1993 were using sterilization (6
percent) and the pill i(3 percent) and injectables and diaphragms/jelly (a fraction of a
percent in total); condoms had doubled their share to 6 percent; the percent using IUD had
dropped to 51 percent, but this was due largely to the much increased percentage relying
on rhythm and withdrawal (32 percent combined). The proportion of married women
using the IUD barely changed across all surveys from 1988 to 1994, remaining always
between 33 and 35 percent. Thus family planning in Vietnam remains heavily focused on
quick and simple minor surgical procedures with important health drawbacks, and a
substantial and growing fraction of users continue to resort to no-cost but ineffective
traditional practices.
1.29  During these same six years from 1988 to 1994, fertility fell more than might have
been expected from the above trends in contraceptive use and mix, but still less than
would have been desirable. The TFR reported for the previous year declined from just
under 4 in the 1988 VNDHS to 3.5. according to the 1993 MRS and to 3.3 according to
the 1992-3 VLSS. The 1994 ICDS reported an average TFR for the years 1989-1993 of
3.3 and a value of 3.1 for 1993 itself It is suspected that at least part of this decline was
due to the use of pregnancy termination services, since overall the method mix has
changed to favor the less effective non-modern methods whose failures appear to provide
an important fraction of termination requests (see para. 1.32). However even a TFR of 3.1
is still much above replacement level, which at Viet Nam's very low level of mortality
would be a TFR of under 2.2 births per woman.
1.30  Pregnancy termination plays a considerable role in the regulation of fertility in Viet
Nam. The term "pregnancy termination" comprises two separately defined procedures in
the country. More than half of all termination procedures performed in the country today
are recorded as "menstrual regulation" (MR); these safer and less traumatic procedures are
performed within a couple of weeks of a missed period, often without a pregnancy test,
and require only a special syringe and no dilatation of the cervix. Only later procedures,



- 10 -
using standard abortion techniques, are recorded as "abortions" in Viet Nam. Both types
of procedure are legal and available from public health facilities, as well as from the
private sector. Neither type is considered as a family planning method, but only as a back-
up in case of contraceptive failure.
1.31   Taking both types of pregnancy termination together and classifying both as
abortions, over a million abortions are now performed annually in Viet Nam according to
service statistics. This amounts to about two abortions for every five births. The
corresponding total abortion rate (TAR), an analogous measure to the TFR, has been
estimated from these figures at 2.5 abortions per woman over her reproductive lifetime.
This would be the third highest level of abortion recorded in the world, surpassed only by
Romania and the former Soviet Union where contraceptives have been notoriously
difficult to obtain. Such a high level is unexpected in a country which (unlike Romania and
the former Soviet Union) has been actively promoting and providing family planning for
many years, and has achieved a total CPR of 65 percent.
1.32  Further data on abortion come from the 1988 VDHS and the 1994 ICDS, in which
women were asked if they had ever had an MR or abortion. However these data must be
treated with caution, since severe underreporting is almost always expected in direct
questioning of women on their abortion experience, and seems to have occurred even in
the relatively unthreatening circumstances of Viet Nam. In 1988, 7 percent of ever married
women reported having had a termination, with a roughly fifty-fifty split between the two
procedures. In 1994, this percentage had risen to 13 percent, with these women reporting
an average of 1.25 procedures. Nearly 60 percent claimed to have been using
contraception at the time of conception; of those women reporting a recent termination
(since 1991) following a method failure, nearly 60 percent had been using withdrawal or
rhythm. Given that only 20-30 percent of contracepting women were users of these two
methods, it appears that the failure rate of these methods is an important contributor to the
need for pregnancy termination.
1.33   According to the 1988 VDHS, 74 percent of all terminations in public facilities
took place at district hospitals or polyclinics, another 18 percent at provincial hospitals,
and four percent each at CHCs and central hospitals. Generally speaking, MRs tend to be
performed at the lower levels of the health system while women would be progressively
referred up for terminations at later stages. In many ways, therefore, the patterns of use of
termination procedures match those for the standard FP outpatient procedures of IUD
insertion and sterilization.
1.34  The overall picture therefore is of a family planning program whose performance is
faltering because it is no longer adapted to its clients' needs. The small family norm is
becoming ever more entrenched in Viet Nam, the proportion of all women wanting any
more children declined from 35 percent in 1988 to 28 percent in 1994, while the average
family size preferred by young married women fell from 2.6 in 1988 to 2.3 -- or close to



- 11 -
replacement -- in 1994. The total CPR has risen to the very high level of 65 percent of
married women, indicating that couples are translating these desires for small families into
action. Yet the use of modern methods has stagnated in recent years, while use of
traditional methods is growing fast. Despite the heavy promotion of the IUD in the public
program and the general lack of alternatives in the public sector, it has proved impossible
to raise the level of use above a plateau of one third of married women. Similar though
less intense promotion of sterilization has failed to raise the level of use above a plateau of
6 percent of couples. Where couples have had access through the private sector to the pill
-- and even the not-then-licensed injectables -- use of these methods rises. Levels of
pregnancy termination are extremely high. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that couples
are resorting to traditional methods and (partly as a result of their use) to termination
because they lack a suitable choice of temporary and reversible modern methods. While
such a combination may reduce fertility, it cannot be considered a desirable or sustainable
approach to family planning from the viewpoint of family health and welfare.
1.35  Financing of Family Planning. Funding for population and family planning
activities in Viet Nam is made up of a mix of domestic and donor funding. In the past, the
share of donor financing was as much as 30 to 40 percent, but this has now fallen to
around 20 percent. Much of the contribution of donors has been in kind, such as
contraceptive commodities, equipment and technical assistance; UNFPA alone has
provided US$2-3 million worth of contraceptives per year in recent years. Total donor
support for 1994 is estimated at about US$5.6 million.
1.36  Domestic population/FP funding largely flows through the national budget of the
NCPFP, which in 1994 reached about 228 billion dongs or US$20.7 million. Local
governments at provincial and district level, and commune authorities, are also expected
to contribute funds to their respective PCPFPs, DCPFPs and CPFPBs; in 1994, provincial
budget funding for population/FP amounted to 23 billion dongs, or around one-tenth of
central funding, though funding at lower levels is difficult to track. Altogether, total
government spending on population and family planning may have amounted to somewhat
over 251 billion dongs or nearly US$23 million. Thus annual domestic public expenditure
per capita for the five to six million current family planning users would come to about
US$3.50 - 4.50. Donor support would add in another US$1 or so, making total public
spending about US$4.50 - 5.50. According to the VLSS, private spending might amount
to an additional total US$3 million, or another US 50 cents per user, yielding a grand total
of public plus private annual spending on family planning of US$5-6 per FP user. These
are extremely low levels of spending compared with a typical annual FP program cost of
US$10-20 per user in the developing world, and no doubt reflect the extremely cost-
efficient FP method mix developed in Viet Nam.
1.37  A substantial fraction of domestic population/FP funding is transferred through the
NCPFP and its subsidiary committee network to the health system, to finance the delivery
of FP services. In 1994, a formal system of "responsibility contracts" was established,



- 12 -
whereby the PCPFPs, DCPFPs and CPFPBs enter into annual contracts with health
service authorities at the corresponding level. Funds flow down from NCPFP to each
subsidiary CPFP level and are then released out to health authorities. The contracts specify
targets to be achieved by the service providers and the budget that will be provided to
reach the given targets. Targets are specified in terms of basic numbers, such as numbers
of acceptors for a given method or of different types of procedures to be performed
annually. Corresponding budgets are calculated on the basis of a standard unit cost per
procedure etc., and appear to cover only the incremental costs to the health system of
providing these FP services. Achievement of targets is monitored regularly, often monthly,
and it appears that the quarterly release of funds to health authorities for each quarter is
adjusted according to their actual previous performance.
1.38  Other items funded through the NCPFP and the subsidiary CPFP network include
incentives for adoption of a method (paid to both acceptors and the collaborators who
motivate them), allowances for collaborators, training and management costs of the CPFP
system, equipment and contraceptive commodities, in-service FP training of health
workers, and the costs of conventional IEC activities. Only about 7 percent of these funds
are spent at the central level, with the rest being disbursed through the lower levels of the
system. In addition, just under one quarter of the NCPFP budget goes to administrative
costs of the entire CPFP system plus infrastructure costs.
B. CURRENT ISSUES AND NEEDS IN THE SECTOR
Family Health
1.39  The health sector in Viet Nam today faces many challenges. These are laid out in
the Staff Appraisal Report for the National Health Support Project (Report No. 14971-
VN), which is designed to support Government in meeting and overcoming them. For
family health, however, the major and overriding issue is the need to revitalize the state
primary health care system, defined according to WDR principles as the commune and
district-level network of facilities. It is at these levels that many of the most cost-effective
public health and clinical services are delivered, such as short-course chemotherapy for
tuberculosis, treatment of diarrhea, malaria, and respiratory infections, and immunisations.
These basic functions, which are almost all of a preventive or palliative nature, are not in
general provided in a technically satisfactory and cost-effective manner by the private
sector. According to what survey data exist, Viet Nam's developing private sector, which
is still largely centred on curative care, self-medication and pharmacies, is not so far
playing an important role in this type of basic health care. The private sector does appear
to be substituting for public provision of some curative care, but even this is largely in the
form of self-medication with purchased drugs, and therefore of unknown and dubious
quality. Thus, though the private sector will have an increasingly important role to play in
Viet Nam's health sector, there will in the foreseeable future be no practical alternative to
the public PHC system for the maintenance and further improvement of basic and cost-



- 13 -
effective primary health programs such as maternal care, family planning and
immunization, as well as a safety net of minor curative care for the very poor. There is
therefore an urgent need to restore operating conditions and staff morale at these grass-
roots facilities to normal working order, through upgrading of physical premises, supplies,
staff salaries and staff skills.
1.40   Adequate primary health services are not needed only to maintain Viet Nam's
current low levels of mortality and to improve health among all sections of the community
in a cost-effective manner. They are also essential to the effective delivery of family
planning. As described above, over 80 percent of users of modern methods had obtained
services at either commune or district level in 1988, and this pattern does not appear to
have changed significantly by 1994. In addition, experience worldwide has demonstrated
that in the long run, family planning is most acceptable and most effectively practiced
when FP services are well embedded in a health care system which delivers trustworthy
maternal and child health (MCH) care. Such integration of family planning into family
health care, which was recently strongly and unanimously endorsed at the Cairo
International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994, has been a
principle of Viet Nam's family planning program from the beginning. It urgently needs
reinforcement now that the country's formerly successful PHC system has come under
pressure.
1.41   Within the family health care sector, there are also some key issues and needs
regarding particular health conditions and service delivery constraints. Some aspects of
maternal and infant health care require special attention and improvement, notably specific
antenatal interventions such as anaemia prophylaxis and treatment and tetanus toxoid
(TT) vaccination and better facilities for first-level referral of complicated deliveries.
CDD and ARI programs for children have still a long way to go in terms of both
coverage and effectiveness. Child nutrition interventions through health services, including
growth monitoring and the promotion of optimum birth spacing and breastfeeding
practices, are relatively underdeveloped at the primary level. Regarding other aspects of
reproductive health, the high incidence of both RTIs and abortion is acknowledged to be
a serious issue for women's health, though far too little is known about the underlying
causes of either.
1.42   Outstanding service delivery issues relate mainly to quality, outreach and areas
where normal patterns of service delivery are inadequate. Quality problems are due
mainly to the severe decline in financial support for the PHC system, which has resulted in
low staff attendance and morale, and in lack of adequate regular refresher training to keep
skills up to date and maintain interest; the consequent declines in facility utilization have
set up a vicious circle whereby skills are further eroded through lack of practice and staff
morale and involvement in their work sink even lower. Improved inputs and resources are
needed to break this cycle. Another aspect of quality concerns the current organization of
primary health service delivery, which is excessively fragmented and verticalized by



- 14 -
specific intervention, so that mothers must visit several different facilities or providers to
obtain a complete package of maternal or child care, or even a full range of contraceptive
services. The design of primary health care delivery needs to be adjusted to make the
convenience and needs of the client the central principle.
1.43  Health outreach problems also originate from changes in commune organization
and health financing patterns. The old system of village health workers, usually primary
nurses, broke down with the collapse of the cooperative system, but has not been replaced
by any equivalent network because of the pressures on public health expenditure. The lack
of health outreach is all the more felt since the CHC system itself has been deteriorating at
the same time.
1.44  There is also a serious and well-established national deficit of one important
grassroots health worker, namely the secondary midwife who is a key member of the CHC
establishment. Over sixty percent of CHCs are now estimated to be without a secondary
midwife (see Annex 1). The prospects for remedying this deficit in the short and medium
term are dim, and therefore strategies for supplying the lack need to be identified and tried
out.
1.45   All these deficiencies in service delivery have particularly severe consequences in
those areas of Viet Nam where coverage and access to services is inherently difficult
because of remoteness or scattered and sparse patterns of population settlement; these are
mostly mountainous regions where Viet Nam's disadvantaged ethnic minority groups are
concentrated (see paras. 4.18-4.26). New and innovative approaches to service delivery
need to be tried in such areas.
Population and Family Planning
1.46  Viet Nam's family planning program must, for the foreseeable future, continue to
be mainly state-financed and managed, given the embryonic state of development of the
private FP sector and the highly cost-effective broad societal benefits to be derived from
effective fertility regulation across all groups in society. It has enjoyed a very successful
and cost-efficient first phase, using an approach which was based on low-cost minor
surgical procedures delivered at low-level health facilities, and backed by an extensive
campaign of social mobilization to promote small families and to recruit and maintain
uptake of family planning services. However this approach was never optimal from the
health standpoint and seems now to be reaching its natural limits, with growth in
prevalence of modern contraceptive methods stagnating in recent years. Yet fertility is still
much above the replacement level required to balance Viet Nam's very favorable mortality
and to reduce population growth to the minimum needed for successful national
development. There is also a particular need to increase the availability of modern and
effective temporary methods among younger women and for birth spacing purposes,
aspects of family planning which are very important for reproductive and child health but



- 15 -
which have to date been underemphasized in the Viet Nam program. The high incidence of
pregnancy termination, moreover, is a very strong indicator of unsatisfied demand and
need for appropriate and effective contraception, and in itself is potentially very damaging
to women's health. For all these reasons, the major overriding issue in population and
family planning is the urgent need to develop a new and broader approach to family
planning which will be suitable for a maturing program like Viet Nam's, which will
stimulate faster progress in contraceptive use and fertility reduction, and which will better
promote reproductive health. Though not as cost-efficient as the current procedure-based
program, this approach represents the only way of achieving the country's broad
demographic and health objectives. Costs can still be held down by the continued use of
Viet Nam's PHC system at the lower levels to deliver the bulk of these broader-based
services.
1.47  Government is keenly aware of these problems and issues, and has formulated a set
of policies and strategies aimed at developing a broader approach to family planning in
Viet Nam. These are set out in the Aide-Memoire presented to the Cairo ICPD conference
in September 1994 by the Government of Viet Nam. The major principles of the family
planning program are:
(a)   a reaffirmation of Government's position that population and family
planning are an important part of the national development strategy
and a prominent factor in socio-economic development, playing a
fundamental role in raising the quality of life for all; hence approval of the
integration of population and development, with population placed in the
context of poverty alleviation, building of an equitable, civilized and happy
society, and ensuring of sustained and sustainable economic growth and
development;
(b)   adherence to the principle of voluntary participation in family planning,
based on full information, combined with responsibility of each couple
and individual for the numbers, spacing and timing of their children;
(c)   recognition of the right of every person to reproductive health care;
(d)   advocacy of the integration of family planning with maternal and child
health care in order to reduce maternal and childhood mortality;
(e)   recognition of the role of abortion as not a method of family planning in
itself, but rather a response to women's right to choice and to safe
abortion; and
(f)   recognition of the need to reduce the incidence of abortion to a
minimum through a strengthened family planning program.



- 16 -
1.48   Strategies to implement these policy principles overlap considerably. They share a
common approach to family planning as a broad-based program which seeks to satisfy
client demand and ensure health benefits through provision of a wide range of
contraceptive methods, good-quality clinical services, extensive IEC and counseling, and
constant concern for family health. The strategies that focus on family planning itself
include:
(a)   efforts to diversify and increase the choice of contraceptive methods
available to couples, so that they have more options among modern and
effective short-term, reversible and spacing methods; this would include
intensive promotion of oral contraceptives (both the combined formula for
general use and the progestin-only formula for breastfeeding mothers),
condoms, injectables, Norplant, and the latest designs of IUDs,
(b)   expansion of IEC programs and materials to inform couples through a
variety of media about the advantages of small families and optimum birth
spacing and timing, and about the contraceptive choices open to them,
besides correcting mistaken beliefs and fears about particular methods;
(c)   refresher training for health providers, in order to bring their knowledge of
all contraceptive methods fully up to date and to correct mistaken beliefs
about particular methods;
(d)   better training in counseling for health providers to ensure that they
promote appropriate use of all available methods and give correct
information on the advantages and disadvantages of each method;
(e)   improved remuneration, training and working conditions for collaborators
and motivators, coupled with a gradual phasing-out of incentives;
(f)   improved systems of supervision and monitoring to ensure that providers,
motivators and collaborators are performing well and observing the major
policy principles set out above; and
(g)   improved access to family planning services for groups that are currently
underserved, such as the populations of many remote and isolated areas.
1.49  These strategies will also work in general to improve reproductive care and the
integration of family planning with maternal and child care, as well as to reduce abortion.
Additional priority areas for the improvement of reproductive health care overlap with
the PHC needs outlined in paras. 1.39-1.45 above; they include:
(a)   safe delivery facilities for normal deliveries at commune level or, in isolated
areas, the best possible care within the community;



- 17 -
(b)   safe care and emergency transport for complicated deliveries at district
level;
(c)   care of anaemia in pregnancy;
(d)   high-quality services for IUD insertion and pregnancy terminations, to
prevent post-procedure infections; and
(e)   adequate treatment of common RTIs at the commune and district level.
1.50  Special additional strategies to improve the integration of family planning with
maternal and child health care again overlap with PHC needs as outlined in paras. 1.39-
1.45; they include:
(a)   adjustment of health service organization at commune and district level to
ensure that integrated MCH/FP packages of care are available to clients;
(b)   widening of the role of collaborators to include promotion of maternal and
child health in addition to family planning; and
(c)   refresher training for health providers that will emphasize integration of
MCH and family planning.
1.51   Special additional strategies to reduce abortion include:
(a)   action to ensure that every woman discontinuing an FP method (except to
conceive) is provided with another method before leaving the facility or
provider; and
(b)   action to improve post-abortion and post-partum counseling and services
so as to ensure that an FP method is provided immediately after abortion
and as soon as required after a birth.
1.52  Many of these policy principles and strategies build on existing policies, guidelines
and best practices in Viet Nam. The challenge will be to improve and revitalize current
average performance within a context of limited financial resources and an ailing primary
health care system.
C. BANK EXPERIENCE
Lessons from Previous IDA Experience
1.53  IDA has experience with only one social sector project in Viet Nam to date,
namely the Primary Education Project (effective January, 1994). The key lesson that has



- 18 -
emerged during the early stages of this project's implementation is the need to ensure that
staff of the implementing agency are fully trained in IDA procedures before project start-
up, particularly in procurement, and that they receive additional follow-up assistance
during the initial implementation period. RMV implementation specialists are expected to
play a key role in this process. Because of the general inexperience of NCPFP with self-
implemented donor projects, it will be even more important than usual to ensure that initial
project activities are carefully planned well in advance. Retrospective financing from the
project will be available to provide any needed extra technical assistance.
1.54  However the NCPFP has benefited in these respects from the use of a PHRD
Grant for the preparation of the project; this was executed by IDA but with RMV handling
all local expenditures. The NCPFP Project Unit used PHRD funds to: conduct an
extensive facilities survey, covering both infrastructure and utilization, in five project
provinces; hold project planning meetings at provincial, district and commune level;
conduct a management review of the NCPFP, including a brainstorming workshop for
NCPFP department directors on strategic planning issues; procure local consultants for
preparation of specific components; procure a vehicle, computers and other office
equipment for the PU; and finance some of the PU's operating costs. In the process, PU
staff acquired invaluable familiarity with IDA procurement, contracting and reporting
procedures. Initially progress was slow, but with due assistance from RMV and
international consultants, the PU staff quickly became effective partners in execution.
Country Assistance Strategy
1.55  IDA's goals in Viet Nam, as laid out in the November, 1995 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), are to promote broad-based economic development and to combat
poverty. IDA's strategy in Vietnam largely reflects Government's own broad strategy for
development (see para. 1 .5). It is made up of five elements: strengthening of
macroeconomic management; support to the transition to a market economy; a leading
donor role in infrastructure development; assistance to development and implementation
of a poverty-alleviation strategy; assistance to development and implementation of a
strategy for sustainable use of natural resources. This IDA strategy is to be pursued
through a combination of adjustment lending, investment projects, economic and sector
work, and technical assistance.
1.56  A key element in the strategy for poverty alleviation is to assist in the provision of
basic social services to poor households, in the belief that sustainable social service
delivery systems should be developed as the basis for human capital accumulation and
national social protection. The Population and Family Health project is seen in the CAS as
contributing to the poverty-alleviation strategy through: a) its development of sustainable
family health and family planning systems; b) its targeting of specific components to
particularly vulnerable groups; and c) its assistance towards resolving the urgent problem
of rapid population growth. In addition, it complements the Primary Education Project,



- 19 -
another key contribution to the poverty alleviation strategy; on the one hand educated
girls are more likely to reduce their fertility but require good-quality FP services in order
to do so, and on the other hand reductions in fertility and population growth will enable
future investment in education to focus more rewardingly on quality improvements rather
than just expanding coverage to meet the needs of ever-increasing cohorts of children. The
National Health Support Project is seen as a third key contributor to the poverty-
alleviation strategy. Both the Population and Family Health project and the National
Health Support Project also respond directly to the findings of IDA's "Poverty Assessment
and Strategy Report"; in particular to the finding that insufficient resources are going to
finance highly cost-effective public health and clinical services.
1.57  In addition to its impact on poverty alleviation, the Population and Family Health
project will also contribute to the strategy for sustainable use of natural resources. The
rapid growth of population in Viet Nam has put severe pressure on agricultural and forest
land. Conservation and long-term sustainable use of these resources will not be possible
without the reduction of population growth to a minimum, which in turn will require the
reduction of fertility to replacement level.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.58  IDA has for some years been engaged in a dialogue with Government on major
issues in the population, health and nutrition sectors. This dialogue began in 1992 with the
preparation of the "Viet Nam Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review" and was
sustained through the work carried out for the "Viet Nam Poverty Assessment and
Strategy Report" (1995) and the preparation of the National Health Support Project and a
nutrition project. Building on the advantage of this comprehensive sectoral context, the
proposed project would provide an opportunity to focus on the specific needs of the
population/family planning sector.
1.59  The project would support the new approach to population and family planning
programs in Viet Nam which is outlined in Government's position paper presented at the
Cairo conference. This approach, which seeks to strengthen the integration of family
planning into the MCH and reproductive health context and to broaden the FP method
mix substantially, requires investment on a massive scale and with in-depth technical inputs
across the sector. The established donors in the field, notably UNFPA, UNICEF and GTZ,
have made invaluable contributions to the FP program to date. However, IDA is in the
unique position of being able to supply or mobilize both financial and technical resources
on the requisite scale and with the requisite scope.



- 20 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
Overall Purpose And Scope Of The Project
2.1    As described in Chapter I, Government has identified current issues and needs in
the family health and family planning sectors and has formulated strategies to strengthen
and revitalize current primary health and FP programs. The overall purpose of the
Population and Family Health project is to support this strengthening and revitalization,
thereby improving the health status of the population and bringing about a further
reduction in fertility and population growth. Table 2.1 lays out a matrix relating specific
project activities to the policy principles and strategies discussed in Chapter 1.
2.2   The project will operate at two levels, the first national and the second in a
selected group of 15 provinces. At national level, the focus will be on overall nation-wide
strengthening of the family planning program, with attention also to related family health
interventions. For the selected 15 provinces, the focus will be on strengthening of the
PHC system at commune and district levels, with a particular emphasis on MCH and
family planning services. Similar support to another group of 15 provinces is being
provided through Component I of the contemporaneous National Health Support Project.
The two sets of provinces to be covered include all those with the highest levels of
poverty and FP/MCH needs which are not already covered by other donor projects (see
Annex 3). Thus overall, more than half of Viet Nam's total 53 provinces, including most of
the neediest, would receive support to upgrade their grass-roots health care system under
the two projects combined. It is expected also that Government would undertake similar
strengthening in the remaining less needy provinces if experience in the two projects
provides a successful model.
Broad Project Goals
2.3   The Population and Family Health project is intended to support two major policy
aims of Government. The first policy aim is to achieve the demographic objectives of the
population and family planning program. These are, for the year 2000:
a national population growth rate of 1.7 percent per annum
a population size of no more than 82 million
Originally, objectives of a national TFR of 2.9 or lower, and a national CPR (all methods)
of 63 percent had also been set. Since these have been met, new objectives are in place
(see para. 2.7 below).



- 21 -
Table 2.1. Matrix of Policy Principles and Strategies, Project Activities and Key Indicators
Policy Principle                Strategy                        Project Activity                        Key Indicator (see Annex 14)
1. Importance of Pop/FP to      Increase resources, effectiveness   All                                 All
National Development         of FP/Family Health programs
2. Voluntary Participation in    Broaden method mix, increase   * Financing of national contraceptive   2,3,5,6
FP, with Full Information    use of temporary methods          supplies
and Responsibility                                           * Retraining of providers in 15 provinces
in contraceptive methods
* New collaborator system with CBD of
pills
* Urban social marketing, CBD of pills,
injectables
* IEC focus on temporary methods
Improve IEC                    * All in Component 2                    2,5
* Special IEC for minorities
* Upgrading of collaborator system
* Special EC for private/NGO sector
Retrain providers in temporary  * Refresher training for providers in 15  2,5,6
methods                          provinces
* Development of new training curricula
for providers, collaborators
Improve counseling             * Refresher training in 15 provinces     2,5
including counseling
* Development of new training curricula
for providers, collaborators
Improve FP outreach            * Upgrading of collaborator system      2,5,6
Improve supervision            * All in Component I and 4               10
Improve access to FP for       * Special strategies for minority groups  2,6
underserved groups               Social marketing, CBD scheme for
urban poor
* Mobilization of private/NGO sector
* All in Component I



- 22 -
Policy Principle                Strategy                        * Project Activity                           Key Indicator (See Annex 14)
3. Right to Reproductive        Provide safe facilities for normal   * All in Component 1                    7,8
Health Care                   deliveries                      * Safe Motherhood studies in Component 5
* Health post model for minority areas
Provide emergency transport for    * Safe motherhood studies in Component 5  8
complicated deliveries
Treat anemia in pregnancy      * All in Component 1                         7
Special strategies for minority areas
Improve quality of IUD/ abortion   * All in Component I
services                       * IUD/abortion studies in Component 5
Provide adequate RTI treatment    * All in Component I
at CHCs, DHCs, etc.            * Special strategies for minority areas
* RTI studies in Component 5
4. Integration of FP and MCH    Adjust service organization at  * Service organization study in component 5  4,7,8,9
CHCs, DHCs                     * Upgrading of collaborator model system
Include MCH in collaborator      Development of new training curricula for
role                             collaborators                                                                       M
Retrain providers in FP/ MCH   * Retraining in 15 provinces for providers
integration                      Development of new training curricula for
providers
5. Abortion not FP Method,      Broaden method mix, increase    * As above under Policy Principle 1          2,3,5,6
But Must be Safe and          use of temporary methods
Reduce Abortion to
Minimum
Improve quality of abortion    * All in Component I
services
Ensure FP dropouts receive     * Development of new training curricula for  2,3
other methods                    providers
* Development of new training curricula for
[EC strategy                     collaborators
* Abortion study in Component 5
Improve post-abortion, post-   * Abortion study in Component 5              2,3
partum counseling to adopt/    * Retraining of providers in Component I
provide FP                     * Development of new training curricula for
providers



- 23 -
The project will primarily address this aim through the national components focused on
family planning, but investment in selected provincial PHC systems would be expected to
improve family planning performance still further in the covered provinces. It and the
matching National Health Support Project investment should also have an added impact at
national level, as a model and stimulus for similar investment in the rest of the country.
2.4   The second major policy aim of Government is to improve the health of mothers
and children in line with Government's current objectives for the year 2000 of:
a national IMR of 30
a national IMMR of 70
The project's contribution to realization of this aim would be expected to apply primarily
to the 15 provinces selected for upgrading of primary health care. However some national
impact would again occur through their role as a national model, plus the beneficial effect
of the broader-based approach to family planning to be implemented through the project's
national components.
2.5   Based on these major Government policy aims, the project's objectives are:
(a)   to increase utilization of family planning and related family health services;
(b)   to improve the quality and range of family planning and related family
health services;
(c)   to enhance NCPFP's management, planning and policy formulation
capabilities; and
(d)   to expand the knowledge base on which policy and technical guidelines
would be founded.
The first two objectives will be addressed through both the national and the provincial-
level components. The third and fourth will be addressed entirely at the national level.
Specific Project Objectives and Indicators
2.6    Within this broad framework of project objectives, a matrix of specific objectives
and indicators at both national and provincial level has been established for the purposes of
project monitoring and impact evaluation. Indicators cover project inputs, activities,
specific outcomes and broad impact, with specification of how each indicator would be
measured. The matrix is shown in full in Annex 4 and has been integrated into project
reporting formats and management and supervisory arrangements.



- 24 -
2.7   Within this matrix, ten key indicators have been selected to measure project impact
and achievement under the project objectives (a), (b), and (c) in para. 2.5. They are
related to corresponding key specific project objectives, which are linked to the policy
principles, strategies and specific project activities laid out in Table 2.1, as well as
Government's own objectives for the year 2000 as given above. Achievement of objectives
(d) will be necessary in order to reach objectives (a) through (c) and hence is indirectly
measured at the same time. All key indicators and specific objectives relate to broad
outcomes or impact of the project, and all pertain to the year of completion of the project.
They are as follows:
Demographic and Health Outcome
(1)   A national decline in the TFR to below 2.5 by 2002.
(2)   A national increase in the CPR for modern methods to 56 percent by 2002.
(3)   A national reduction of 30 percent in the TAR by 2002.
(4)   A national decline in the IMR to 25 by 2002.
Service Performance and Quality
(5)   A national increase in the share of temporary/short-term and supply-based
methods (pills, condoms, injectables) to 25 percent by 2002
(6)   A national improvement in access to an adequate range of family planning
services by 2002.
(7)   An improvement in utilization of CHC facilities for pre-natal care in the
project provinces by 2002.
(8)   An improvement in the met need for life-saving obstetric care in the project
provinces by 2002.
(9)   An increase in the percent of infants who are fully immunized in the project
provinces.
(10)  A national improvement in the management information score (see Annex 4
for description of the score).
Current base measures for indicators 6-10 are not available, and hence specific objectives
cannot yet be set. The baseline survey or baseline studies will provide these measures, and
corresponding objectives will then be set for 2002 through consultation between MOH,
NCPFP and (where appropriate) local authorities in the project provinces and elsewhere.



- 25 -
During negotiations, Government provided assurances that the key indicators and
objectives listed in para. 2.6-2.7 and the matrix of indicators shown in Annex 4 will
be used to measure, monitor and evaluate implementation progress and project
impact [para. 6.1 (c)]. Government also provided assurances that baseline surveys
and studies substantially in accordance with the outline given in Annex 14 will be
carried out, and their results used to complete the list of key project objectives as
described in para. 2.7, by June 30, 1997 [para. 6.1 (d)].
2.8   The project will be implemented over a period of seven years, from 1996 to 2002.
B. STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF THE PROJECT
2.9   The project is composed of five components, of which four are national in scope
and focused on family planning and the fifth covers the primary health care system
(commune and district-level) in 15 selected provinces. These components consist of:
(a)   Provincial Service Delivery.  Strengthening of PHC services in 15
provinces, with a focus on family health and family planning services;
(b)   IEC. Strengthening of family planning and family health IEC programs
and activities;
(c)   Contraceptive Supplies. Support for the much-increased supplies of
contraceptive commodities required for increases in prevalence of modern
methods and use of temporary and birth spacing methods;
(d)   FP Management and Institutional Development. Strengthening of the
management and planning capabilities of NCPFP and its subsidiary
committee network; and
(e)   Service Delivery Model Initiatives. Provision of a fund for studies and
pilots of improved service delivery approaches and interventions in key
areas of family planning and related family health issues.
Component 1: Provincial Service Delivery:
(US$74.8 M equivalent estimated total project cost)
2.10  This component will strengthen the primary health care system in 15 selected
provinces of Viet Nam. These provinces consist of Lam Dong, Dong Thap, Bac Thai, Hai
Hung, Thua Thien Hue, Lao Cai, Nam Ha, Hai Phong, Dac Lac, Tuyen Quang, Lai Chau,
Vinh Long, Thanh Hoa, Tra Vinh and Kien Giang (see Map 1). They were selected
according to criteria based on relatively low health and FP status, adequate management
capacity, no substantial FP donor presence, and regional spread (see Annex 3). These
criteria also resulted, by and large, in the selection of the country's poorer provinces. Nine



- 26 -
out of the 15 project provinces have significant proportions (between 15 and 80 percent)
of disadvantaged ethnic minorities among their population (see para. 4.18).
2.11   On the basis of a standard package of selected services to be provided by the
upgraded facilities, three standard packages of inputs have been developed for upgrading
of CHCs, DHCs and provincial MCH/FP centres in the 15 selected provinces (see Annex
5); intercommunal polyclinics would be classified on the basis of size and functions as
equivalent to either a CHC or a DHC and would receive the corresponding package. The
National Health Support Project is supplying exactly the same standard package to 2819
CHCs in the 15 provinces covered under its Service Delivery Component; its district-level
package for 155 DHCs is similar but not identical, covering fewer specialized higher-level
FP services and more specialized higher-level health services.
2.12  The inputs supplied under each package include: civil works to the extent
necessary to provide the basic package of services, covering mainly building renovation
and/or extension, plus some re-building where required (US$24.9 million); supplies of
additional furniture, vehicles and equipment to bring each facility up to a complete
specified standard (US$20.3 million); annual additional supplies of essential drugs and
medical supplies to bring each facility up to a complete standard list (US$16.1 million);
and refresher training for all commune and district-level health staff, including training of
trainers at national and provincial level (US$4.5 million). Facility upgrading would be
provided to 440 health posts, about half of all CHCs in the project provinces (amounting
to 1,616 CHCs), and all 184 district-level and 15 provincial-level facilities. During
negotiations, Government provided assurances that the selection of CHCs to receive
physical facility upgrading will be carried out according to criteria agreed with IDA
and substantially in accordance with those laid out in Annex 5 [para. 6.1 (h)l. The
project will finance costs of civil works; their maintenance during the life of the project;
incremental furniture, vehicles, equipment and essential drugs and medical supplies;
development of standard training curricula; training of trainers; and refresher training
courses for all commune and district-level staff, During negotiations, Government
provided assurances that all CHCs, DHCs and MCH/FP centers in the 15 project
provinces will be appropriately staffed and all CHCs will be provided with adequate
funding to pay staff salaries [para. 6.1 (g)]. Government also provided assurances
that it would furnish IDA by September 30, 1996, and have an exchange of views
with IDA on, a comprehensive description of the policy and implementation
guidelines it will employ to ensure the effective implementation of: (i) cost recovery
with respect to the essential drugs to be provided by the project in those communes
of project provinces where applicable; and (ii) provision of essential drugs and
supplies free of charge in mountainous and remote communes in project provinces.
The policy and implementation guidelines would be reviewed by the Government
and IDA each year thereafter and would be an explicit focus of the mid-term review
[para. 6.1 (r)].



- 27 -
2.13   Three additional key aspects of this upgrading package are the long term
maintenance of the upgraded buildings and equipment, the adequacy of the logistics
system to be used for storing and distributing essential drugs, as well as contraceptives
(see para. 2.14), and the expansion of outreach systems. Maintenance costs during
implementation will be supported by the project out of Government's contribution (see
paras. 3.6-3.7) through a corresponding annual budget for maintenance of project
buildings, once upgraded. During negotiations, Government provided assurances that
all CHCs, DHCs and MCH/FP centers physical facilities upgraded under the project
will be adequately maintained during project implementation according to the
guidelines specified in Annex 5 Ipara. 6.1 (i)l.
2.14  To assure adequate storage and distribution of essential drugs and contraceptives,
an efficient and cost-effective national logistics system is to be developed (see Annex 8).
It would be based on contracting out of all logistics services, except storage at the central
and provincial levels, to specialized Government agencies or the private sector. The costs
of contracting out would be covered by a 7.5 percent service charge on all commodities
handled. This system would be introduced initially for the essential drugs and
contraceptives procured under the project and then expanded to cover all health and
family planning supplies.
2.15  To strengthen PHC service delivery still further, two model outreach systems are
to be tested under Component 5 during the first half of the project period (see para. 2.25).
If evaluated as successful, they would be extended to cover the 15 project provinces under
this component (US$9.0 million). The first model is a network of village-level health posts
in remote mountainous areas and the second a strengthened hamlet-based collaborator
network. The project will finance construction, equipment and essential drug supplies for
the health posts, and equipment, retraining and allowances for the collaborators. During
negotiations, Government provided assurances that in the event that the pilot test of
a strengthened community-based outreach system for family planning and family
health described in Annex 11 is evaluated as successful, an action plan for its
implementation will be submitted to IDA for approval and then will be implemented
as approved in the project provinces [para. 6.1 (1)].
2.16  Civil works for all facilities except health posts would be phased over the first
three years of the project, with the provinces of Lam Dong, Dong Thap, Bac Thai, Hai
Hung, and Thua Thien Hue covered in the first year of the project and the remaining ten
provinces covered in the second and third years. Provision of furniture, vehicles,
equipment and essential drugs and medical supplies would commence from the second
year of the project, with furniture and equipment phased in where necessary according to
completion of civil works. Curricula development and training of central and provincial
trainers would be carried out in the first year; refresher training courses would begin in the
second year and would be phased to correspond with completion of civil works and
delivery of furniture and equipment where necessary.



- 28 -
Component 2: IEC
(US$16.8 M equivalent estimated total project cost)
2.17  This component will strengthen and expand IEC channels, programs and activities
for family planning and family health programs, in order to deliver a set of key messages
which are based on the IEC strategy already developed by NCPFP's IEC Department (see
Annex 6) and tailored to the new approach to family planning outlined above. These
messages will cover: the use of family planning to delay, space and limit childbearing
through appropriate modern methods; the prevention and treatment of RTIs; aspects of
pre-natal and emergency obstetric care; and population issues such as the small family
norm and gender bias. As an additional strategy, a social marketing initiative for the pill
will be launched.
2.18  The IEC  program  will focus both on strengthening of the interpersonal
communication channels that have been historically so important in the Viet Narr. FP
program and on making full use of the ever-increasing influence of mass and print media.
Its major elements would include: equipping all collaborators with IEC bags and (in
remote mountainous areas) bicycles; strengthening the interpersonal communication and
counseling skills of health providers; providing an ample supply of simple reference and
instructional print materials for all health providers and collaborators; and designing and
implementing a full range of IEC programs and activities through mass media, local
campaigns and folk media. All collaborators would also be trained in interpersonal
communication and counseling, but this would be financed out of the NCPFP regular
budget. The social marketing initiative for the pill would focus primarily on urban areas,
which contain about 20 percent of Viet Nam's population. It would include: a community-
based door-to-door promotion and home-resupply program for poor urban
neighborhoods; a standard social marketing program for pharmacies in better-off
neighborhoods; and a national mass media campaign to promote the pill which would
cover both urban and rural populations.
2.19  The project will finance costs of: IEC materials development, production and air or
screen time; training of IEC trainers; IEC training courses for health providers and IEC
staff, transport and equipment for collaborators; IEC special campaigns, workshops,
events etc.; and social marketing program costs other than pills themselves, which will be
supplied under Component 3.
Component 3: Contraceptive Supplies:
(US$25.3 M equivalent estimated total project costs)
2.20  This component will finance the purchase of the bulk of contraceptive commodities
required for an increased modern-method CPR and broadened method mix over the four
years 1997-2000. Condoms are excluded because they have never been supplied through
donor financing. Government has always supplied them directly to the program through
the regular NCPFP budget and will continue to do so for the future. Table 2.2 shows the



- 29 -
desired changes in the method mix to be achieved over the life of the project, and Annex 7
gives details of the projections of contraceptive use and costs on which this component is
based. Broadly speaking, overall contraceptive prevalence would rise from a current
estimated CPR for modem methods of 44 percent to 56 percent in 2002. The percent of
users relying on permanent or semi-permanent methods (IUDs, sterilization, Norplant)
would change only a little from 58 percent to 60 percent. However the 10 percent now
using temporary methods which require large volumes of supplies (pills, condoms,
injectables) would rise to 25 percent by 2002, while conversely the 30 percent currently
using "natural" methods (mainly rhythm and withdrawal) would fall to 15 percent. Within
categories, the use of new, improved types of IUDs and progestin-only pills would rise.
2.21   At present, the total national bill for contraceptive commodities of about US$2.5 -
3 million (excluding condoms) is met largely by UNFPA. The project will finance all such
costs as calculated above (excluding condoms) for the four years 1997-2000, including the
7.5 percent logistics charge. For the years 2001 and 2002, it is assumed that Government,
with or without the assistance of donors, would meet the bulk of commodity costs.
However the project will provide a small reserve fund for those years in case of
unexpected needs.
Table 2.2. Desired Method Mix Among Contraceptive Users, 1994-2002
L____                       Method Mix
Year   CPR  IUD   Steriliz-  Implant Pills  Condoms  Injec-   Female  Tradi-  Total
I_____ _____       ation                             tables   Barrier  tional
1996  65.2  51.5    6.6     0.3    4.5      7.6      1.1    0.2    28.2   100
1997  65.4  51.5    6.7     0.4    5.2      8.3      1.7    0.2    26.0   100
1998  65.5  51.6    6.8     0.6    5.9      8.8      2.3    0.2    23.8   100
1999  65.6  51.6    6.9     0.7    6.7      9.2      3.1    0.2    21.6   100
2000  65.8  51.6    7.0     0.9    7.4      9.5      4.0    0.3    19.4   100
2001  65.9  51.6    7.1      1.0    8.2     9.6      4.9    0.3    17.2   100
2002  66.0  51.6    7.2      1.2    9.0     9.7      6.0    0.3    15.0   100
Percentages may not add exactly to 100. due to rounding
Component 4: FP Management and Institutional Development
(US$6.7 M equivalent estimated total project cost)
2.22   This component will strengthen management, planning and policy formulation
capabilities in NCPFP and its subsidiary network of CPFPs, including upgrading of
management skills and improvements in reporting systems. For the upgrading of
management skills, a series of workshops would be held as a follow up to the management
review undertaken during project preparation (see para. 1.54). The workshops will
identify organizational needs in the light of strategic planning priorities for the NCPFP and
its subsidiaries, and plan the corresponding skill and training needs. Appropriate curricula



- 30 -
will then be developed and training of trainers carried out. Actual training will be funded
under the NCPFP regular budget.
2.23 For the improvement of the FP program management information systems (MIS),
an overall strategy has been developed (see Annex 9), according to which the MIS would
support strategic planning activities at national and provincial levels, operational activities
at commune level, and a coordinating function at district level. The MIS would be fully
computerized at national and provincial level, but not below for the present. The project
will support costs of computers and associated software; other MIS and office equipment;
planning workshops; development of management and MIS training curricula; training of
management and MIS trainers; and MIS training courses for selected NCPFP, PCPFP,
DCPFP and CPFPB staff. The component will also cover the costs of the project
management structure and of monitoring and evaluation activities.
Component 5: Service Delivery Model Initiatives
(US$6.0 M equivalent estimated total project cost)
2.24  This component will provide a basis for policy and strategy review and adjustment
in the areas of family planning and family health service delivery. It will provide funds for
development of models and pilot testing of new or innovative approaches and models for
service delivery, with supporting studies, wherever there are issues, gaps or needs in
existing systems. Proposals for topics will be developed, reviewed, and financed if
acceptable, over the period of project implementation as needs arise. Arrangements for the
administration of component funds are given in Annex 10. During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that detailed proposals for all activities to be
financed under the service delivery model initiatives component will be submitted,
through a Service Delivery Model Initiatives Committee to be established by August
31, 1996 and described in Annex 10, to IDA for prior review and approval, and
thereafter will be implemented as approved by IDA [para. 6.1 (k)l.
2.25  An initial indicative list of topics has been developed, and is given in detail in
Annex 11. It includes:
(a)   testing of a model for a strengthened collaborator system (including the
renaming of the collaborators as Family Health Workers), with smaller
numbers, larger allowances, full-time working hours and tasks expanded to
encompass the promotion of family health, in selected communes of the
fifteen project provinces; the cost of expanding the new model to provide
entire coverage of the project provinces (equivalent to about one-third of
the country's population) would be supported under Component I (see
para. 2.15), if the model is evaluated as successful;
(b)   testing of a model outreach system to supplement CHC primary health care
services in remote mountainous areas (where most disadvantaged ethnic
minority populations live), involving establishment of village-based health



- 31 -
posts staffed from the CHC and providing FP/family health promotion and
minor curative services; the model would be tested in remote mountainous
areas of the fifteen project provinces and then extended to cover all such
areas in the provinces under Component I (see para. 2.15) if evaluated as
successful;
(c)   studies and model testing for ways of mobilizing the private and NGO
sectors to provide family planning and reproductive health services through
a variety of approaches, including credit schemes, updated training for
providers, incentive programs for providers in remote areas (see para.
4.24), support to establishment of professional associations for private
providers; supplies of tailormade IEC materials; and a systematic review of
constraints on private practice followed by action to alleviate them;
(d)   a pilot test of the acceptability and impact of charging for contraceptives;
the results would be used to introduce a phased system of charges during
the second half of the project;
(e)   studies and testing of improved approaches to safe motherhood services,
including key aspects of safe pregnancy and delivery such as reduction of
anaemia and vitamin A deficiency, safe home deliveries, and management
of high-risk pregnancy and obstetric complications; the emphasis would be
on understanding the patterns and causes of current problems and on
improving current approaches;
(f)   studies and testing of improved approaches or protocols in key problematic
aspects of family planning and reproductive health, including the very high
incidence of MR/abortion, the quality and acceptability of IUD services,
and prevention and treatment of RTIs; the emphasis would be on
understanding the patterns and causes of current problems and on
improving current approaches; and
(g)   testing of model approaches and strategies for improving access to good-
quality family planning and family health services for disadvantaged ethnic
minorities, including (beyond the health post model described above)
special participative baseline and evaluative studies, participative design of
models and strategies and piloting of selected approaches, such as special
incentive programs to attract private and NGO providers to minority areas
and special training programs for traditional midwives.
During negotiations, Government provided assurances that: (a) a pilot scheme of
charges for contraceptives will be carried out by June 30, 1999; (b) an action plan
will be prepared on the basis of its results by August 31, 1999 for review and



- 32 -
comment by IDA; and (c) the action plan will thereafter be promptly carried out
[para. 6.1 (j)l.
2.26 During negotiations, Government provided assurances that a time-bound
action plan for all training activities under the project will be provided to IDA for
review and comments by June 30, 1996 [para. 6.1 (q)l.



- 33 -
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT
A. COST ESTIMATES
3.1   Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
Vietnamese Dongs 1,426 billion or US$129.6 million equivalent, including contingencies
and taxes. A summary of costs by project component is given in Table 3.1, and a summary
by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Costs by component, category of expenditure and
year are given in Annex 12.
3.2   Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical additions at 3 percent of base cost (US$3.8 million equivalent) and for
inflation at 14.0 percent of base cost (US$15.5 million equivalent) in accordance with
Bank-wide and regional guidelines.
3.3   Taxes and Duties. Project cost estimates for technical assistance and training
have been calculated net of taxes. Taxes levied internally on local purchasing are estimated
at about US$4.3 million (3.3 percent of total project cost). Taxes on imported goods and
consultant services contracts will be fully met by Government from its own resources.
3.4   Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are
estimated at 53 percent of base project cost. The estimated foreign exchange component
for the various expenditure categories is as follows: civil works 30 percent; equipment 72
percent; drugs 95 percent; contraceptive supplies 95 percent; foreign technical assistance
90 percent; local technical assistance 10 percent; overseas training 95 percent; local
training 20 percent; service delivery model initiatives 18 percent; maintenance 20 percent;
operating costs and logistics 10 percent.
3.5   Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The project investments in provincial PHC
systems and the national FP program will add no new regular staff in either case; hence
there will be no incremental salary costs. Incremental supplies of drugs and medical
supplies and contraceptives provided under the project are viewed as investments. In the
case of drugs and medical supplies, the aim is to restore public confidence and hence
former utilization rates for PHC facilities through a major upgrading effort; while in the
case of contraceptives, the aim is to bring about a major shift in the FP method mix
towards supply-based methods. Both types of commodity will be fully funded out of the
IDA credit, ADB concessional loan or KfW grant. They will nonetheless require to be
sustained after the life of the project; this issue is addressed in paras. 4.30-4.33 and Annex
16.



- 34 -
3.6   There are four types of incremental costs generated by the project that will be
classified as incremental recurrent costs and included as such in the total project cost. The
first type is maintenance of civil works undertaken under the project (5.6 percent of the
base cost of civil works) and of equipment purchased under the project (7.5 percent of the
base cost of equipment), amounting altogether to US$4.2 million (total including
contingencies) over the project period. Maintenance costs for civil works cover materials
and labor while those for equipment cover spare parts and labor. The second type is the
incremental budget for collaborator allowances (6 percent of the total base costs,
amounting to US$8.7 million including contingencies) required from 1998 onwards, if the
strengthened collaborator system to be piloted under Component 5 in five project
provinces is successful, and hence is extended throughout the fifteen project provinces.
The third type is logistics costs (4 percent of total base costs, amounting to US$5.6
million including contingencies) for storing and distributing drugs and medical supplies
and contraceptives. The fourth type is operating costs (1 percent of total base costs,
amounting to US$1.1 million including contingencies) covering travel, supplies and
communications expenses for management and training activities needed during the life of
the project. Maintenance and logistics costs will be funded 100 percent out of the
Government contribution; for outreach worker allowances and operating costs, 70 percent
will be funded out of the IDA Credit and 30 percent out of the Government contribution.
The first three types of incremental costs will require sustaining after the life of the
project: this issue is addressed in paras 4.30-4.33 and Annex 16.



- 35 -
TABLE 3.1. Project Cost Summary by Component
%     % Total
(Dong Billion)          (USS Million)    Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Provincial Level Service Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading             158.7     66.3   225.0   14.4  6.0        20.5     29       19
2. Equipment Provision             39.3    154.3    193.7    3.6  14.0      17.6     80        16
3. Essential Drug Supply           16.5    134.1    150.6    1.5  12.2      13.7    89         12
4. In-service Training             27.7     10.6    38.3    2.5  1.0         3.5     28        3
5. Outreach Strengthening          62.8      8.6    71.4    5.7  0.8         6.5     12        6
Subtotal Provincial Level Service   304.9    374.0   678.9   27.7  34.0       61.7     55        56
Delivery
B. National Level Program
1. Strengthening FP IEC           101.6     40.5    142.0    9.2  3.7       12.9    28        12
2. Contraceptives Supply           29.1    237.3    266.4    2.6  21.6      24.2     89       22
3. Management & Institutional      31.7     29.0     60.7    2.9  2.6        5.5     48        5
Development
4. FP Service Delivery Model       52.8     13.2    66.0    4.8  1.2         6.0     20        5
Initiative
Subtotal National Level Program     215.2    319.9   535.1   19.6  29.1       48.6     60       44
Total BASELINE COSTS                 520.1    694.0  1,214.0   47.3  63.1    110.4      57       100
Physical Contingencies             20.9     20.4     41.3    1.9  1.9        3.8     49        3
PriceContingencies                130.2     40.6    170.8   11.8  3.7       15.5    24         14
Total PROJECT COSTS                  671.2    754.9  1,426.1   61.0  68.6    129.6      53       117



- 36 -
TABLE 3.2.. Project Cost Sununary by Expenditure Category
%        % Total
(Dong Billion)                     (US Mlilion)         Foreign        Base
Local     Foreign        Total      Local    Foreign       Total    Exchange        Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                          150.1           64.3      214.4       13.6         5.8       19.5       30           18
B. Equipment                             79.6         200.5       280.0        7.2        18.2       25.5       72           23
D. Drugs                                  7.0          133.1      140.1        0.6        12.1       12.7       95           12
E. Contraceptives                        12.4          235.4      247.8        1.1       21.4        22.5       95           20
F. Training
Overseas Training                      0.4            7.4        7.8        0.0         0.7        0.7       95            1
Local Training                        32.5            8.1       40.7        3.0         0.7        3.7       20           3
Subtotal Training                        32.9           15.6       48.5        3.0         1.4        4.4       32           4
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance           0.8            7.5        8.4        0.1         0.7        0.8       90           1
Local Technical Assistance            30.9            3.4       34.4        2.8         0.3        3.1       10           3
Subtotal Technical Assistance            31.8           11.0       42.8        2.9         1.0        3.9       26           4
H. Studies and Pilots                    68.6           15.1       83.7        6.2         1.4        7.6       18           7
Total Investment Costs                    382.3          674.9    1,057.3       34.8        61.4        96.1      64           87
11. Recurrent Costs
A Outreach Workers Allowance             61.9            6.9       68.8        5.6         0.6        6.3       10           6
B. Maintenance for Civil Works            9.6            2.4       12.0        0.9         0.2        1.1       20           1
C. Maintenance for Equipment             17.0            4.2       21.2        1.5         0.4         1.9      20           2
D. Logistics                             41.1            4.6       45.7        3.7         0.4        4.2       10           4
E.OperatingCost/a                         8.1            0.9        9.0        0.7        0.1         0.8       10           I
Total Recurrent Costs                      137.7           19.0      156.7      12.5         1.7        14.2       12          13
Total BASELINE COSTS                       520.1          694.0    1,214.0       47.3        63.1       110.4      57           100
Physical Contingencies                   20.9           20.4       41.3        1.9         1.9        3.8       49           3
Price Contingencies                     130.2           40.6      170.8       11.8         3.7       15.5       24           14
Total PROJECT COSTS                        671.2          754.9    1,426.1       61.0        68.6       129.6       53          117
/a To cover incremental cost of travel, supply & communication, etc.
B. FINANCING PLAN
3.7       The estimated  total project cost of US$129.6 million  equivalent, including  taxes,
will be financed by:
(a)    a Government contribution of US$18.6 million equivalent including taxes;
(b)    an IDA credit of SDR33 .6 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) net of
taxes;
(c)    co-financing from an ADB concessional loan of US$41.0 million; and



- 37 -
(d)   co-financing from a KfW grant of DM. 30 million (approximately US$20
million).
3.8   The structure of project financing is laid out in Annex 12, and may be summarized
as follows:
(a)   the Government contribution of US$18.6 million equivalent (14.4 percent
of total project cost including taxes) will finance logistics costs,
maintenance costs, and a portion of the overall costs of civil works,
outreach workers allowance and operating cost for all components except
Component 5;
(b)   the IDA credit will finance 39.9 percent of total project cost net of taxes,
and would cover: 33.2 percent of the costs of provincial service delivery
(covering five project provinces) under Component 1; 82.8 percent of the
costs of Component 2 (IEC); 11.8 percent of the costs of Component 3
(contraceptive supplies); 92.8 percent of Component 4 (management &
institutional development); and 33.3 percent of the costs of Component 5
(service delivery model initiatives);
(c)   the ADB concessional loan will finance 31.6 percent of total project cost,
and would cover 49.4 percent of the costs of Component I (covering ten
project provinces); and 66.7 percent of the costs of Component 5 (covering
the private/NGO sector development subcomponent); and
(d)   the KfW grant will finance 15.4 percent of total project cost, and would
cover 79 percent of Component 3 (covering contraceptive commodities for
the years 1997-2000, not including logistics costs).
3.9   The contribution from KfW will be administered as parallel co-financing. Funds are
available immediately.
3.10 The contribution from ADB will be administered as parallel co-financing. ADB
would formulate, negotiate and approve a separate project with Government, covering the
elements and costs described above. The project is expected to be submitted to the ADB
Board by end-1996 and to start implementation by the beginning of 1997. ADB's
contribution to the project has therefore been designed in such a way that no funds for
activities covered by them will be required before January, 1997.
3.11  Project Preparation Financing.  Funds from the Japan Policy and Human
Resource Development (PHRD) Fund to the amount of JPY 62.5 million (approximately
US$ 640,000 equivalent) were used for project preparation, under execution by IDA. The
PHRD funds were used for the Project Unit of NCPFP to: conduct an extensive facilities



- 38 -
and infrastructure survey in five project provinces; hold project planning meetings with
their provincial, district and commune networks; engage international and local
consultants to assist in technical preparation of specific project components (in the fields
of IEC, training, MIS, management and ethnic minority research), as well as in the drafting
of project proposals; make study tours of World Bank-supported population and health
projects and national family planning programs in neighboring countries; purchase office
equipment for the PU; and support PU's incremental operating costs.
3.12  In addition, ADB has provided funds for a Project Preparation Technical
Assistance (PPTA) package. This package was designed to supplement and extend the
assistance to preparation given through the PHRD fund. It included similar facilities and
infrastructure surveys in the remaining ten provinces, a multi-visit international
consultancy in private/NGO sector development, and repeat visits of international
consultants to assist the NCPFP in finalizing preparation of the training, MIS and
management components. PPTA activities began in June, 1995, with repeat consultant
visits plus the first visit of the private/NGO development specialist, and are scheduled to
be completed early in 1996.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.13  Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3.
3.14  Civil Works.  Civil works (estimated cost about US$19.7 million, including
contingencies), will be undertaken following national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. In remote and mountainous areas
where packaging would not be possible to follow NCB procedures, relatively small civil
works contracts, each valued at about US$30,000, will be awarded by obtaining at least
three quotations from local contractors up to an aggregate amount of US$3.9 million.
Most civil works included in this project would be small and simple, consisting of repair or
renovations of existing small buildings at CHCs and parts of the DHCs plus some minor
additions such as extra rooms or minor operating theaters, and would be scattered over
the provinces being financed under IDA. Owing to the nature and size of these works,
NCB procedures are appropriate since no foreign contractors are likely to be interested in
them. However, NCPFP will group these works in suitable packages so as to minimize
the number of contracts being awarded under this component, with a view to managing
their execution effectively and efficiently. Further, it would be desirable for NCPFP to use
suitable postqualification criteria to be included in the bidding documents prior to inviting
bids, in order to determine the capacity of the individual contractors to undertake more
than one package while awarding the contracts to them. The contractors may form joint
ventures with other contractors if they wish to enhance their financial and technical
resources. These works will be carried out through the Provincial Project Management
Units (PPMUs) under NCPFP's overall guidance and supervision. NCPFP has drafted
the required bidding documents following the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for



- 39 -
Procurement of Civil Works (Small Contracts), January 1995, adjusted to suit local
requirements.
Table 3.3. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Procurement Elements             ICB        NCB      O               2           3
___Other        NA         Total
Civil Works                                   19.7       3.9                    23.6
(5.4)    (1.0)                    (6.4)
Goods
a. Materials and Equipment         16.4       8.4       4.9                    29.7
(6.7')    (4.5)     (4.6)                  (15.8)
b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals         14.8                             -           14.8
(4.9)                                       (4.9)
c. Contraceptives                  3.0                  -         20.0         23.0
(3.0)                          (0.0)        (3.0)
Training & Technical Assistance
a. Training                                             5.8                      5.8
(4.3)                   (4.3)
b. Technical Assistance                                 5.1                      5.1
(4.9)                   (4.9)
Outreach Workers Allowance                               8.7                     8.7
(6.1)                   (6.1)
Operating Cost                                           1.1                     1.1
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Studies & Pilots                                         8.0                     8.0
(4.0)                   (4.0)
Maintenance for CW & Eqpt                                           4.2          4.2
(0.0)        (0.0)
Logistics                                                           5.6          5.6
___ __       (0.0)
TOTAL                     34.2       28.1      37.5       29.8        129.6
(14.6)     (9.9)   (25.5)       (0.0)       (50.0)
1 Other includes shopping and consultancy services.
2 Not applicable as these amounts are not financed by IDA.
3 Figures in parentheses are IDA amounts only, net of taxes, and exclude the ADB amounts.



- 40 -
3.15  Goods.  The project provides for the procurement of materials, equipment,
vehicles, drugs, and medical supplies.  Inclusive of contingencies, the costs of the
equipment are estimated to equal about US$16.4 million and of drugs and medical
supplies equal to about US$14.8 million. These equipment items and drugs would be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines, January 1995. In respect of equipment and drugs to be
procured by ICB, domestic bidders will be eligible for a margin of preference in the bid
evaluations of 15 percent of the C.I.F. costs of the competing imports or the existing rate
of customs duty, whichever is less. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods will be
grouped in bid packages costing at least US$150,000 each. Contraceptives amounting in
value to US$20.0 million equivalent will be covered under KfW financing arrangements.
IDA will finance contraceptives to the value of US$3.0 million. Contracts for equipment
costing less than the equivalent of US$150,000 each, such as surgical equipment, hospital
beds, delivery beds, delivery tables, diagnostic tables, etc., add up to an aggregate of
US$8.4 million will be procured through NCB procedures satisfactory and acceptable to
the Bank. NCB procurement of surgical equipment is recommended because no foreign
supplier manufactures this type of equipment in the smaller sizes needed to accommodate
Viet Nam's smaller hand and pelvic sizes. Small-value items, or groups of items costing
less than US$25,000 per contract subject to an aggregate amount of US$4.9 million, will
be procured by prudent shopping, requiring quotations from at least three reputed
suppliers. NCPFP has drafted the bidding documents following (a) the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, January 1995 for the procurement of
goods and   (b) the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, September 1993 as amended to reflect therein the changes
as per the Bank's Guidelines, January 1995 for the procurement of drugs and
pharmaceuticals.
3.16  Training, Technical Assistance, Studies &  Pilots, Outreach  Workers
Allowance and Operating Costs. IDA will finance all or part of the costs (inclusive of
contingencies) of the training (US$5.8 million), technical assistance (US$5.1 million),
operating costs (US$1.1 million), studies & pilots (US$8.0 million) and outreach workers
allowance (US$8.7 million) components, to the extent of US$19.9 million as against the
aggregate of US$28.7 million provided for these components in the project. However, the
maintenance of civil works and equipment (US$4.2 million) and logistics (US$5.6 million)
charges included in the project will be entirely financed by the Government of Viet Nam.
The training component includes the retraining of health workers in job-related knowledge
and skills, IEC counseling etc. and will be carried out by the provincial secondary medical
schools or national institutions. NCPFP will award these assignments, with the exception
of the technical assistance component, to its own agencies in the provinces on a sole
source basis and enter into "responsibility contracts" with them to carry out these
assignments. However, before entrusting these assignments, NCPFP will provide to IDA
essential details as necessary about them, including copies of the draft "responsibility



- 41 -
contracts" for its review, to ensure that they comply with the Bank's Guidelines. The
project supports the employment of consultants to undertake technical assistance
assignments. These consultants will be selected and appointed in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency. NCPFP will prepare a draft letter of invitation and the contract
following the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consulting Services, June 1995.
3.17  Contract Reviews. All civil works contracts in excess of US$150,000 (including
the first two civil works contracts regardless of their respective estimated cost), all goods
contracts in excess of US$150,000 and all consulting contracts in excess of US$100,000
for firms (US$50,000 for individuals) will be subject to prior review by the Bank. With
respect to all consulting contracts, irrespective of value, prior review will be required for:
(a) terms of reference; (b) single source contracts regardless of value; (c) all consultant
contracts and assignments of a critical nature (such as environmental safety or public
health considerations) regardless of value; and (d) contract amendments valued at more
than US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals), or those that raise the total
contract value to more than US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals). This will
allow prior review for approximately 80 percent of the procurement process under the
project. NCPFP would use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents as follows: (a)
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contractors), January 1995 and as adapted to Vietnam's
local requirements to carry out NCB procurement; (b) Procurement of Goods, January
1995 for materials and equipment; (c) Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines,
September 1993 as amended to reflect the changes as per the Bank's Guidelines of
January 1995; and (d) Standard Form of Contract for Consulting Services, June 1995.
NCPFP has already drafted and submitted all documents to the Bank, for use under this
project.
3.18   Table 3.4 provides schedules for the preparation of bidding documents for civil
works, goods and consulting services, procurement actions, construction and selection of
consultants under the project components. Project activities are expected to commence
early in 1996 and conclude in 2002.
D. DISBURSEMENT
3.19  The proposed IDA credit of US$50.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over a
period of seven and a half years, with disbursements to be completed by the closing date
of June 30, 2003. The proposed disbursement schedule is shown in Table 3.5 and Figure
1. Little accumulated experience is available for Viet Nam, so the profile for the East Asia
& Pacific Region is shown as a standard. The proposed schedule has relatively high levels
of early disbursements because of concentrated early procurement of the equipment,
supplies and civil works necessary for facility and FP program upgrading. It is considered
feasible since draft bidding documents are already finalized and RMV staff will provide
support to the staff of the NCPFP PMU and the provincial PMUs in handling procurement



- 42 -
and disbursement procedures during the early implementation period. Arrangements are
also being made for advance training in procurement and disbursement.
Table 3.4. Implementation Schedule
Component                                          Start          Finish         Contract
Completion
Draft Bid Documents for Civil Works, Goods and
4
Training and Technical Assistance
Preparation (NCPFP)                          07/95           10/95
Submission to Bank                           09/95           10/95
Approval by Bank                             11/95           12/95
Invitation of Bids, Evaluations and Award of Civil
Works, Goods and Trg. and TA Contracts
Civil works                                    01/96- (01/97)   05/96 -(05/97)   06/96-06/97
Goods                                                                         (06/97-06/98)
01/96 - (01/97)   06/96 -(06/97)  06/96 -06/97
Taiig&TA                                                                 (06/97-06/98)
Training & TA                                  01/96 - (01/97)   06/96 -(06/97)   06/96-06/97
(06/97-06/98)
3.20   Disbursements from  the IDA credit will be made for eligible project expenditures
in accordance with provisions made in the Development Credit Agreement. Retroactive
financing will be allowed for expenditures incurred prior to the date of signing of the
Development Credit Agreement but after June 30, 1995, in an amount not exceeding
US$2.0 million. Disbursements will be made against: (a) 90 percent of the total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent C.I.F for foreign expenditures, 100 percent
ex-factory local expenditures for locally manufactured goods, and 85 percent of local
expenditures for off-the-shelf items; (c) 100 percent of total expenditures for training,
technical assistance and studies & pilots; (d) 70 percent of expenditures of outreach
workers allowance; and (e) 70 percent of incremental operating costs. As a condition of
disbursement for allowances for outreach workers under the strengthened
collaborator system, an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, for implementing the
4 These are documents for NCB procurement of Civil Works and ICB procurement for equipment and drugs and
consulting services. NCPFP would use the versions for goods and consulting services to modify them as
appropriate for use in their NCB procurement.
5 This implementation schedule is for the first two years and the dates in parentheses show the next year's plans
for invitation of bids, evaluations, contract awards and contract completion periods.



- 43 -
strengthened system on the basis of the results of the pilot test will be provided to
IDA [para. 6.31. Disbursement Categories to be made against the IDA Credit are
summarized in Table 3.6.
Table 3.5. Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Fiscal    Calendar                 PFH          EAP Region
Semester          Year             Year          Estimated          Standard
Ist                            1996                0                0
2nd            1997                                 4                3
Ist                            1997                9                 3
2nd            1998                                21                6
1st                            1998               33                14
2nd            1999                                41               22
1 st                           1999               49                30
2nd            2000                                55               42
1 st                          2000                62                50
2nd            2001                                68                62
1 st                          2001                74                74
2nd            2002                                83               82
1st                           2002                91                86
2nd            2003                                95                94
1st                           2003               100               100
Figure 1
Disbursement Graph
100                                                       . . .     ... . . . . . ..
80    3    -  -  SA   ........... \ _.  ... \ \ \ /.N.S.#.S . .........  A^. ..   .... ..  . .V . ..... . . . 
S    50        -            .. -.-
, :.     -. : -.-. , :,.. . . . ............,,:.,-,-.,,,,,-,.,-,,
740                  -                  -                           --
00 
30            -.            - .-o       -       ...........   . ....  -.. .-
10           -                 .                 '.- .. 5.z   A   /_  ...  t  . Vo .. . . . . .... .
1 0       :".','  ' s ^:  "."'^.' ''^'"'-'"'''''-''^-"'' "' -'',''A  .':. .. '....   ....U .  _...  t...,...|
40
1996       1997       1998       1999       200        201        202
Fiscal Year
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 44 -
Table 3.6. Disbursement Categories
Expenditure Category     IDA Amount in        % of Expenditures to be Financed
US$ million
Civil Works                      6.0         90% of total expenditure
Equipment & Furniture,          22.8         100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
Vehicles, Drugs & Medical                    expenditure (ex-factory cost); and 85% of local
Supplies, and Contraceptives                 expenditures for other items procured locally.
Training, Technical Assistance,  12.7        100% of total expenditure
and Studies & Pilots
Outreach Workers Allowance       5.8          70% of total expenditure
Operating Costs                  0.6          70% of total expenditure
Unallocated                      2.1         -
Total                           50.0        l
3.21   Special Accounts. In order to accelerate disbursements, a Special Account with
an authorized allocation equivalent to US$2.0 million, based on four month's average
expected expenditures, will be established in a bank acceptable to IDA. The first
withdrawal will be limited to an amount equivalent to US$800,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
US$16 million. The PMU in NCPFP would manage and operate the Special Account. All
documentation relating to the Special Account will be kept in the PMIU and made available
for review by IDA. Applications for replenishment of the Account, supported by
appropriate documentation, will be submitted monthly or when the account is drawn by 20
percent of the Authorized Allocation, whichever occurs first. For withdrawal outside the
Special Account (applications for direct payment or for issuance of Special Commitments)
a minimum application value of 20 percent of the Authorized Allocations will be observed.
3.22   Statements  of Expenditure.   Full documentation  will be  required  for
disbursements against contracts for goods in excess of US$150,000, contracts for civil
works in excess of US$150,000, and consulting contracts in excess of US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Disbursements for all other items below these levels
will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All documents supporting the
SOEs will be retained by the PMNU in NCPFP and made available for random sample
review by IDA supervision missions.



- 45 -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.1   The proposed project will be implemented by the NCPFP and the local
governments of the project provinces.  An organogram of the project management
arrangements is shown in Annex 13. During negotiations, Government provided
assurances that the project management structure as laid out in Annex 13 will be
established, staffed and maintained throughout the project implementation period
Ipara. 6.1 (m)l. As a condition of effectiveness, Government will provide evidence
satisfactory to IDA that: (a) the Project Steering Committee, the Project Executive
Committee and the NCPFP Project Management Unit have been established and
the Project Director appointed; and (b) the Provincial Project Management Units in
the five provinces included in the first phase of Component I have been established
and the corresponding Provincial Project Managers appointed (para. 6.2).
4.2    A ministerial-level Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be established to
provide overall direction and guidance to the project. It will be chaired by the Chairman,
NCPFP, and will include high-level representation from MOH, the MPI, SBV and the
Ministry of Finance. The Committee will meet as often as required, and not less than once
every three months.
4.3   The technical implementation of individual components will be assigned to the
corresponding existing Departments of NCPFP. The Directors of these Departments will
form the members of an Executive Committee (EC), which will be established under the
PSC and will also be chaired by the Chairman, NCPFP. The EC will meet every two
months. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established to coordinate and
administer the day-to-day implementation of the project, including the handling of all
procurement and disbursement. Its Director will be seconded from within NCPFP, and will
take the rank of Department Director. Its Deputy-Director will be seconded from MOH.
The PMU will act as secretariat to the EC. The 16 staff of the PMU will include both staff
seconded from within NCPFP and hired contractual staff as needed to provide particular
technical expertise.
4.4   At provincial level, a Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) will be set up
in each of the 15 project provinces. The PPMUs will coordinate day-to-day
implementation of project activities in their provinces, including the management of civil
works (see Annex 5). Each PPMU will be composed of four staff, who will be seconded
from within the PCPFP or hired as contractual staff, as needed. The mandate of the
PPMIJs will include close coordination with the corresponding provincial health bureaus.
During negotiations, Government provided assurances that all necessary steps will
be taken to ensure that each of the project provinces implements its activities under



- 46 -
the project and is provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for that purpose [para. 6.1 (n)l.
4.5   Coordination between NCPFP and MOH is critical for the success of the project,
given that the actual delivery of family planning and family health services is the
responsibility of MOFH.  Several mechanisms are in place to ensure the necessary
collaboration:
*  the NCPFP is structured such that one of the Vice-Chairpersons is also the Vice-
Minister of Health.  Such high level representation reinforces the importance
placed by the two ministries on coordination.
*  the Project Steering Committee, which will provide advice and guidance on policy
and major project issues, will have a representative from MOH and
*  the key position of Vice-Director of the PMU will be filled by an MOH official,
who will facilitate coordination in the day-to-day execution of the project.
In addition, throughout the preparation of both the Population and Family Health Project
and the National Health Support Project (to be implemented by MOH) several
collaborative activities took place as follows:
o Population and Family Health project planning meetings which were held at the
national, provincial and district levels included participants from both ministries;
- a number of joint meetings were held with representation from NCPFP, MOH and
World Bank missions.
The design of the matching provincial service delivery components of the two projects
reflects this collaborative process.   Close cooperation between the two Project
Management Units is expected to continue during implementation.
B. PROJECT ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
4.6   The total project accounts will be maintained by the PMU in NCPFP. Separate
accounts for appropriate project components and activities will also be maintained by the
local government of each project province. All will be kept in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The project accounts will reflect all financial transactions during the
project implementation period for both IDA credit and counterpart funding in two books,
one by project components and the other by expenditure categories. The project account
will be separated from all routine budget accounts and other foreign-financed project
accounts.



- 47 -
4.7   Project accounts will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (The World Bank, March
1982). During negotiations, Government provided asssurances that audits of
project-related records and accounts, including the Special Account, will be
undertaken in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that audited accounts and financial
statements, in a format agreed with IDA, and including separate audits of
Statements of Expenditures, will be sent to IDA within nine months of the end of
each Government fiscal year [para. 6.1 (a)].
C. PROJECT MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
4.8   Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Key project indicators are listed in para.
2.7, while a full matrix of input, intermediate and impact indicators for the project is given
in Annex 4, together with a note of how they would be obtained. Overall, most indicators
of project inputs would be obtained through either the project MIS or the national FP
program MIS, while most indicators of intermediate and ultimate impact would come from
special population-based surveys.
4.9   Three major surveys will be carried out under the project for the purposes of
project evaluation, namely the baseline survey, the mid-term review survey, and the final
evaluative survey (see Annex 14). The baseline survey will be a population-based sample
survey, carried out at the beginning of the project. It will assess the FP and family health
status of the population. Information will be gathered on levels, trends and patterns of:
fertility; FP knowledge, attitudes and use; childhood morbidity and mortality; reproductive
health; childbearing and childfeeding practices; and access to and use of major PHC
services such as maternal care, immunization and micronutrient supplementation. The
questionnaire and the plan of tabulation and analysis will be structured around the matrix
of project indicators, with particular emphasis on the ten key indicators.
4.10  The baseline survey will be scaled to yield significant results for both the country
as a whole and appropriate groupings of provinces; in addition, the 15 project provinces
will be oversampled to, provide key measures of PHC service access and utilization for
individual provinces. As an addendum to the baseline survey, similar smaller surveys will
be conducted among the most numerous ethnic minority groups. These will include
qualitative focus-group studies to elicit more in-depth information on attitudes,
preferences and key health and FP issues in a consultative and participative framework.
4.11  The results of 1he mid-term review survey will form one of the inputs into the
Mid-Term Review (see paras. 4.15-4.17), and fieldwork and analysis would be scheduled
accordingly. The survey will consist of a repeat of the baseline survey, but with the
questionnaire limited to a few core topics. These would be chosen either to monitor
background trends in key indicators or to assess project impact in those areas where



- 48 -
significant progress could be expected by the project midpoint. Again, results would be
disaggregated to national, provincial grouping, individual project province and individual
major ethnic group levels. Fieldwork and analysis would be designed to yield quick and
robust results, rather than an in-depth exploration of the data.
4.12  The final evaluative survey will be carried out just before project completion. It
will be a full repeat of the baseline survey. A comprehensive in-depth analysis of its results
will be produced, making full use of the data from the two earlier surveys for comparison.
This analysis would assess trends in health and FP status and services over the life of the
project and the contribution of the project to them. The fieldwork and analysis would be
scheduled to allow the results to be used in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The survey report and the ICR will be fully reviewed and discussed by Government, IDA
and project co-financiers at a Project Completion workshop.  During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that an Implementation Completion Report,
based in part on the results of the final evaluative surveys and studies, will be
provided and discussed with IDA within six months after the closing date of the
project [para. 6.1 (p)].
4.13  In addition to these three major surveys, smaller special surveys would be carried
out as required, in such areas as IEC or training assessments. Some of these are described
in Annexes 5, 6, 11 and 14.
4.14 The NCPFP PMU will be responsible for the management of all monitoring and
evaluative activities under the project. Surveys and special studies would be contracted
out as required to other Government agencies with special expertise in the necessary
fields, such as the General Statistical Office (GSO) and the Centre for Population and
Human Resource Studies in MOLISA.
4.15  Project Reporting. The PMU will provide six-monthly project progress reports
to IDA and co-financiers according to the format given in Annex 14. This format is based
on the matrix of project indicators shown in Annex 4. The focus would normally be on
routine project monitoring and hence on input indicators from the project MIS. Results of
major or smaller surveys would be summarized in these progress reports, but also written
up in full separate reports. In addition, the PMU will produce a report on the results of the
Mid-Term Review and an Implementation Completion Report. During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that six-monthly project progress reports will be
submitted to IDA by June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning December
1996, substantially in accordance with the format laid out in Annex 14 (para. 6.1
(b)). Government also provided assurances that an annual review of the project
work program and budget for the next fiscal year will be provided to IDA for review
and comments by August 31 of each year, beginning 1996, and the work program
will be subsequently implemented in a manner satisfactory to IDA [para. 6.1 (fl).



- 49 -
4.16  The Mid-Term Review. At the mid-point of the project (approximately end-
1999), a Mid-Term Review will be carried out by the PMU according to the outline given
in Annex 14. The purpose of this Review would be to assess overall progress in the
project up to its mid-point, and hence the prospects for meeting the original objectives of
the project in full, on time, and within the original budgetary envelope of the project. IDA
and the project co-financiers will then review the findings of the Review with Government.
On that basis, joint decisions will be made on any major changes or restructuring in the
project that appear necessary.
4.17  The Mid-Term Review will consist of three parts. For the first part, the PMU
would conduct a comprehensive internal stocktaking of progress in project
implementation. This would be based largely upon the project MIS. The second part will
be an external review, by another Government agency or a selected private consultant, of
the progress of the project in meeting its objectives. This would be based partly on the
results of the internal stocktaking and partly on data from the mid-term review survey
described above. For the third part, the PMI will synthesize the first two parts into an
overall assessment of project status. This assessment would include recommendations
for changes, restructuring or remedial action in the remainder of the project. It will be
embodied in a Mid-Term Review report, which will be submitted to IDA and the project
co-financers early in the year 2000 for review and discussion at a Mid-Term Review
workshop. During negotiations, Government provided assurances that a project
midterm review report substantially in accordance with the outline given in Annex
14 will be provided to IDA by August 31, 1999 and reviewed with 1DA by December
31, 1999 [para. 6.1 (e)I.
D. PROJECT IMPACT ON SOCIAL ISSUES
Impact on Ethnic Minorities
4.18  According to the 1989 census, the population of Viet Nam was made up of 87
percent Kinh (ethnic Vietnamese) and of 13 percent ethnic minorities, who belonged to
more than 50 different ethnic groups with distinct cultures. These ethnic minorities vary
enormously in size; the two largest groups, Tay and Thai, have populations of over one
million each, while some of the smallest are numbered only in the hundreds. They are
found in all regions and provinces of Viet Nam, ranging from less than one percent to 96
percent of provincial populations in 1989 (see Annex 15). Subdivision of some provinces
since 1989 complicates estimation, but roughly speaking, minority groups make up 50-80
percent of the population in three out of the 15 project provinces, and 15-30 percent in
another six. A few of the minority groups, such as the Han Chinese, are either fully
integrated into mainstream Kinh society or enjoy an equal or superior standard of living.
However most are relatively disadvantaged. They mainly inhabit the mountainous, forested
and remote parts of the country, often living in small and scattered settlements to which
access is extremely difficult.



- 50 -
4.19 Government has implemented several policies and programs aimed at improving
the standard of living and meeting the special needs of these disadvantaged groups. In the
family planning area, the national "one or two-child" policy has been modified to suit their
minority status by allowing three children to couples belonging to mountain-dwelling
minority groups. In health, special programs have been set up to try to improve the supply
of health staff for minority communities, including special scholarships for minority girls
and boys wishing to become doctors, nurses or midwives. However it is acknowledged
that health and FP services still remain extremely deficient in many minority areas.
Consistent with the objectives of Operational Directive (OD) 4.20 on the protection of the
interests of indigenous peoples and ethnic minorities, the project will therefore include
special strategies to ensure equity in health and FP status between minority groups and
their Kinh neighbors (see Annex 15).
4.20   As a preparatory step, two preliminary studies of ethnic minorities were
undertaken during project preparation. The first was a desk study which collated available
statistics and general information on ethnic minorities in Viet Nam. The second was a
participative field study carried out by an anthropologist with long experience in the field
in Thailand and Viet Nam, including one of the project provinces. It collected original data
in a second project province through quick field surveys of health and FP status and access
to services, and also held participative discussions with minority communities on their
needs and preferences in family planning and family health. In addition, this study
compiled the scanty information available on these topics for the country as a whole.
4.21   Available demographic data indicate that all of Viet Nam's minority groups except
the Han lag behind the Kinh in terms of the demographic transition to low levels of fertility
and mortality. According to the 1989 census, all the nine most numerous groups excepting
the Han had TFRs above 4.0, with most above 5.0. By contrast, the Kinh TFR was
estimated at 3.6 and the Han TFR at only 2.9. Similarly, all nine groups had IMRs higher
than the estimated Kinh level of 39, except for the Han at 31; the range was from 41 to as
high as 106, with most minority IMRs well above 50. Available socio-economic data show
higher levels of poverty and illiteracy lying behind these demographic disadvantages.
According to the 1993 VLSS, average annual expenditure, a proxy for income, was much
lower for all minority groups (except the Han) than for the Kinh; typically expenditure was
more than a third lower and sometimes almost two thirds lower. According to the 1989
census, literacy levels among the population aged 5 years and over were lower among all
ethnic minorities, even the Han, than among the Kinh, of whom 87 percent were literate.
There was however a considerable variation among minority groups; some had literacy
rates of 80 to 83 percent, while others had rates as low as 10-20 percent.
4.22  The findings of these two preliminary studies also indicate that among at least
some ethnic minorities, demand for PHC and modern FP services is quite as high as
among the Kinh. There may be a greater preference for temporary and short-term
contraceptive methods over permanent or long-term methods, but few other cultural



- 51 -
features have been found which would require adapting of regular FP and PHC services to
suit local cultural attitudes and practices. The major disadvantages of these groups appear
to arise from lack of access to such services, because of the difficult and remote terrain in
which they tend to live.
4.23   Special strategies are needed under the project in order to improve access and
quality of services among ethnic minorities up to the standard of their Kinh neighbors. The
first requirement is a better data base. Baseline surveys will therefore be carried out early
in the project among the most numerous ethnic minority groups in Viet Nam. These
would assess current health and FP status and access to services, relative to neighboring
Kinh communities. On this basis, a full set of strategies would be designed to remedy any
disadvantages found. Annex 14 gives an outline of the scope and methodology which will
be followed for these surveys.
4.24  It is already clear that the major focus of such strategies overall will be the
improvement of access to good-quality family health services, with emphasis on extension
of outreach in remote mountainous areas. As already described in paras. 2.15 and 2.25, a
new system of village-based health posts would be piloted in these areas under Component
5 and then expanded to cover all such areas in the 15 project provinces under Component
1, if successful. In addition, under the accompanying pilot of an upgraded collaborator
system providing a range of family health services, the new Family Health Workers in
remote mountainous areas would be furnished with bicycles; additional transport would be
provided for DHC mobile teams serving remote mountainous and delta areas; and special
programs of recruitment and training of paramedical staff belonging to ethnic minorities
would be developed and implemented. Other possible approaches to improving access to
services might include special efforts to train traditional midwives to supervise home
deliveries safely, and special incentive programs for private or NGO health practitioners or
pharmacies willing to settle in or tour remote areas. Baseline studies for the 15 provinces,
the formulation of appropriate special strategies, and the piloting of selected approaches
will all be funded under Component 5 (paras. 2.24-2.25); extension of the health post and
collaborator pilots (if successful), plus DHC mobile team transport and special training
programs, would be funded under Component I (para. 2.15).
4.25   At national level, all components focusing on family planning will support a
widening of the method mix and a new emphasis on temporary and short-term methods.
Hence preferences for such methods among minority groups should automatically be
catered for under the project. However, a special national FP strategy for ethnic minorities
will also be formulated. It will aim to improve access to FP services and adapt IEC
materials and activities, including training in counseling, as needed (see Annex 15).
4.26  In order to monitor and evaluate the implementation and impact of these special
strategies for disadvantaged minorities, special follow-up surveys will be carried out for
the most numerous minority groups (see Annex 14). During negotiations, Government



- 52 -
provided assurances that the project will be carried out in accordance with a
strategy satisfactory to IDA, which will: (a) be designed on the basis of studies and
surveys undertaken by qualified and experienced experts under terms of reference
and timing satisfactory to IDA; and (b) include provisions for the informed
participation of and consultation with a variety of representative communities
benefiting under the project, in particular communities with ethnic minorities, to
ensure that the design and implementation of the project adequately addresses the
needs and cultural preferences of such communities [para. 6.1 (o)].
Impact on Women
4.27  The proposed project is intended to support strengthening of primary health care
and family planning programs in Viet Nam, with a focus on improving maternal, family
and reproductive health services. As a result, women will benefit from better access to
higher-quality services offering a wider range of contraceptive methods, improved care in
pregnancy and delivery, and better treatment of reproductive tract infections. As a result,
the need to resort to abortion should decline and the number of unwanted or mistimed
births should be reduced. Women would therefore be able to care for their children and
families more effectively, as well as to increase their income-generating activities and their
participation in development. The impact of the project on women is thus expected to be
very favorable.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
4.28  Impact on the Environment. The project will have no effect on the environment.
Protocols will be developed for the safe disposal of syringes at all health facilities covered
under Component I of the project, and their implementation will be monitored as part of
project supervision.
4.29  Resettlement Issues. There are no resettlement issues.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Financial Sustainability
4.30  Provincial PHC Services. Component 1 of the project will deliver a package of
inputs to upgrade PHC service delivery in 15 provinces. The inputs are civil works,
equipment and furniture, essential drugs and medical supplies and refresher training;
outreach systems might also be strengthened but this is not certain and hence will not be
taken into account here. The incremental recurrent cost burden to be sustained after
project implementation will comprise the maintenance of the upgraded civil works and
equipment (which would be shared between the health and population/FP budgets), and
annual drug and medical supplies plus logistics costs. These costs will be met out of the



- 53 -
regular health budget and would amount to approximately US$2.7 million per annum by
2002, or well under one percent of the projected health budget for 2002 (see Annex 16 for
details). Incremental costs on this scale should not by themselves be difficult to sustain.
4.31   The National Health Support Project will provide a similar upgrading package
over the same period to another 15 provinces, raising total coverage to more than half the
country's population. However this would still only raise incremental recurrent costs for
the 30 provinces together to around US$5.4 million or less than 1.5 percent of the national
health budget. Taking a broader perspective, if the provincial upgrading package should
succeed in improving service quality and utilization, Government might consider a similar
upgrading program in the country's remaining provinces. At most, however, the recurrent
cost burden from a similar investment program in the rest of the country would about
double that generated by the two projects, to consume altogether no more than 3 percent
or so of the national health budget. It does not appear, therefore, that the upgrading of
Viet Nam's PHC services could create any major problem of sustainability.
4.32   Family Planning Program. Under the project, the contraceptive prevalence rate
for modern methods is projected to rise by about 10 percentage points. Numbers of users
will rise proportionately even more, since the population of reproductive age is also
increasing. At the same time, the contraceptive method mix is projected to broaden and
become more commodity-intensive. Thus total national costs for contraceptive
commodities plus logistics costs (excluding condoms) are projected to rise from a current
level of around US$3 million to around US$7.5 million by 2002. The increase of about
US$ 4.5 million per year may be viewed as the recurrent cost burden generated overall by
the project's activities, even though only a minor proportion of these contraceptive costs
would be financed directly by the project by 2002. This increase plus the population/FP
budget's share of maintenance costs would be equivalent to about 8.5 percent of the
projected population/FP budget for 2002, a significant but sustainable increment.
4.33   Taking a wider perspective, however, the annual total contraceptive bill of US$7.5
million is the amount that would need to be sustained after the closure of the project,
equivalent to about 13 percent to the projected total budget for population and family
planning in 2002 (see Annex 16 for details). This scale of resource allocation for
contraceptive supplies is not excessive by the standards of family planning programs
worldwide. It should therefore be sustainable by the Government of Viet Nam even if all
these supplies were to be financed by Government itself and provided free of charge
through public programs. In fact, a proportion of users already obtain their contraceptive
supplies from the private sector and the importance of both the private sector and social
marketing is likely to grow substantially during the life of the project. A program of
charges for public program users is also planned to be introduced during the second half of
the project. It is moreover very likely that donor support to contraceptive supplies would
continue to be significant after the year 2000, outside the umbrella of the project itself



- 54 -
The sustainability of the expanded contraceptive costs should therefore present no major
problems.
Institutional Sustainability
4.34  The project has been designed to avoid any serious problems of institutional
sustainability after project closure. No permanent salaried staff have been added to either
provincial health services or the FP program, and no major changes are to be made in their
organizational structure or their tasks. Though some new approaches are to be tested
under the project, such as health posts and strengthened outreach systems, they will be
evaluated thoroughly for viability and sustainability before being expanded. The project
should result in increased health and FP workloads, due to the planned upgrading of
facilities, services and IEC, but the network of facilities and staff is currently so dense that
their capacity to accommodate such increases is expected to be ample. There will be a
massive temporary increase also in the IEC program, but the incremental activities are
designed primarily to support the restructuring and upgrading of the FP program under the
project itself Therefore, the level of IEC activities and expenditure would revert to the
pre-project norm  after project closure.  Other elements of the project, such as
management training and MIS upgrading, would improve the efficiency of program
management and administration.  No major issues of institutional sustainability are
therefore anticipated.



- 55 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   There will be a range of overlapping benefits from the project. First, at the
national level, the proposed strengthening of Viet Nam's family planning program should
result in improved information, education and communication about family planning,
better quality of family planning services, and a wider choice of methods for couples
including those best suited to temporary use and for the purposes of birth spacing. In turn,
these improvements should lead to greater demand for family planning and to more
effective and prolonged use of contraception; hence to a reduction in the incidence of
abortion, improved birth spacing and timing practices, smaller family sizes, lower fertility
and reduced population growth. An average seven million contracepting couples would
annually be beneficiaries of this strengthened FP program.
5.2   The benefits that would flow individually to women, children and famnilies would
be improvements in maternal, child and reproductive health and in family welfare. The
additional benefits that would flow to the entire economy and society of Viet Nam,
comprising more than 80 million people by 2002, would include the reduction of long-
term pressure on agricultural and forest land, on other natural resources, and on state and
family budgets for the social services required for the care and education of child
dependents.
5.3   Second, for the 15 project provinces where primary health care services would
also be strengthened under the project, there will be additional benefits related to these
interventions. As a result of the improvements in working conditions resulting from
upgraded premises and adequate supplies of equipment and drugs, combined with
improved knowledge and skills resulting from refresher training, primary health providers
in these provinces should be enabled and motivated to deliver good-quality primary health
services to the rural population. These would focus on maternal, child and reproductive
health care (including family planning) and also provide treatment for major infectious
diseases and minor ailments combined with screening and referral for more serious
conditions.
5.4   This should lead to a number of health benefits to communities in these provinces,
including reductions in morbidity and mortality from the communicable diseases of
childhood, diarrheal and respiratory diseases, malaria, TB, reproductive tract infections,
and conditions related to complications of pregnancy and delivery for mothers and to
birth for infants. The entire population of the 15 project provinces, amounting currently to
over 20 million or 28% of the total population of Viet Nam, would benefit from access to
improved PHC services. Beneficiaries of the core PHC interventions, covering maternal
and young child care plus FP, would amount to an average 5.4 million annually, made up
of around 740,000 women requiring maternal care, around 1.7 million children under three



- 56 -
years of age and around 3.0 million contraceptors. These benefits should be particularly
important to the poorest sections of rural communities, since they are the least able to
purchase adequate replacement services in the private market. In addition, if the package
of inputs provided by the project in these provinces (and likewise by the National Health
Support Project in 15 other provinces) is successful in revitalizing their PHC systems, this
should provide a powerful stimulus and model for similar strengthening in the remaining
half of the country.  The project's studies and pilots of the private sector (plus
complementary policy studies under the National Health Support Project) would also lead
to a better knowledge base for action to regulate and improve private sector services.
5.5   Without the project (and the accompanying National Health Support Project)
Government is highly unlikely to be able to mobilize sufficient domestic or external
funding for major upgrading of the FP program (including social marketing) or of primary
health care in the provinces. Without such investment, the FP program would probably
stagnate at its current level of modern method coverage and with its current method-mix.
Through lack of choice and information, couples would increasingly resort to ineffective
traditional methods. As a result, fertility decline would be slower and abortion rates
would remain undesirably high.
5.6   Without major investment, the PHC system is likely to deteriorate still further to a
point where even the major preventive programs decline in coverage and effectiveness.
Since no effective private sector alternatives have developed for these types of health
interventions, there will be a risk of resurgence of communicable disease epidemics and a
stagnation or rise in child and maternal death rates. Such trends have already been
observed in other countries or population groups where PHC systems have deteriorated.
At the same time, curative care would continue to be dominated by self-medication from
pharmacies of unknown quality and effectiveness and to a lesser extent by largely
unregulated private providers. In such conditions, clients are unlikely to obtain the most
cost-effective medical care for their illnesses, and rates of morbidity and mortality could
not be minimized.
B. RISKS
5.7   Technically, the packages of family planning and PHC interventions to be delivered
under the project present little risk. The technologies and techniques for providing
effective and good-quality FP and PHC programs and services are well-understood and
well-tested around the world. Viet Nam's experience in both sectors is long and generally
successful, demonstrating unquestionable ability to implement efficiently and sustained
commitment to the goals of better health and reduction of fertility and population growth.
The risks of the project relate more to the rapidly-evolving social and economic context of
Viet Nam and the ability of the mature FP and PHC programs to change, as well as to the
country's inexperience with IDA projects and procedures.



- 57 -
5.8   For the FP program, the major overall risk is that despite high-level NCPFP
commitment and the fresh inputs and strategic directions supported by the project, the
expected broadening of the method mix and shift towards a client-oriented approach may
not be achieved as rapidly as projected. One constraint might be the recognized difficulty
in changing attitudes and practices among entrenched program managers and health
providers. It might also prove harder than expected to correct current client
misconceptions and shift client preferences towards less familiar methods. These risks will
be minimized within the project by: intensive IEC activities; extensive training in
appropriate counseling for all providers and motivating staff, management training and
inputs for the CPFP network to promote fresh attitudes and thinking; and the use of the
results of studies and pilot interventions financed under the service delivery model
initiatives to support strategic rethinking and adoption of innovative approaches.
5.9   For the provincial strengthening of primary health, the major risk is related to
the project's basic assumption that the utilization rates of public health facilities have fallen
primarily because of poor service quality arising from resource constraints. It is possible,
however, that public confidence in the state PHC system may not be retrievable at this
point even if services are dramatically upgraded. Thus utilization rates might not recover
despite the project's investments. If the private health provider sector develops sufficiently
fast and effectively to provide a viable alternative to either the state system or self-
medication from pharmacies, a further dimension to this risk would be added. However
experience elsewhere has shown that state PHC systems continue to be attractive,
particularly to the very poor, if access and quality of services can be assured. The project
would minimize this risk by providing the complete package of inputs needed to achieve
the required levels of access and quality.
5.10  Finally, there is a general risk that project implementation may prove to be slow
and unsatisfactory, particularly in the area of civil works, because of Viet Nam's
inexperience with IDA and ADB project procedures, coupled with the limitations of
NCPFP management capabilities. This risk would be minimized by the management
training and support to be provided to NCPFP and the subsidiary CPFP network within
the project, and by a special civil works monitoring unit in the NCPFP PMU. Extensive
training in IDA and ADB procedures is also planned prior to project implementation. The
positive experience of NCPFP's use of the project's PHRD fund (see para. 1.54),
combined with Viet Nam's successful management of PHC and FP programs in the past,
despite adverse conditions, suggests that this risk is not unduly high.



- 58 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations, Government provided assurances that:
(a)   audits of project-related records and accounts, including the Special
Account, will be undertaken in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
and that audited accounts and financial statements, in a format agreed with
IDA, and including separate audits of Statements of Expenditures, will be
sent to IDA within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year
(para. 4.7);
(b)   six-monthly project progress reports will be submitted to IDA by June 30
and December 31 of each year, beginning December, 1996, substantially in
accordance with the format laid out in Annex 14 (para. 4.15);
(c)   the key indicators and objectives listed in para. 2.6-2.7 and the matrix of
indicators shown in Annex 4 will be used to measure, monitor and evaluate
implementation progress and project impact (para. 2.7);
(d)   baseline surveys and studies substantially in accordance with the outline
given in Annex 14 will be carried out, and their results used to complete
the list of key project objectives as described in para. 2.7, by June 30, 1997
(para. 2.7);
(e)   a project midterm review report substantially in accordance with the outline
given in Annex 14 will be provided to IDA by August 31, 1999 and
reviewed with IDA by December 31, 1999 (para. 4.17);
(f)   the project work program and budget for the next fiscal year will be
provided to IDA for review and comments by August 31 of each year,
beginning 1996, and the work program will be subsequently implemented
in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.15);
(g)   all CHCs, DHCs and MCH/FP centers in the 15 provinces will be
appropriately staffed and all CHCs will be provided with adequate funding
to pay staff salaries (para 2.12);
(h)   the selection of CHCs to receive facility upgrading will be carried out
according to criteria agreed with IDA and substantially in accordance with
those laid out in Annex 5 (para. 2.12);



- 59 -
(i)   all CHCs, DHCs and MCH/FP facilities upgraded under the project will be
adequately maintained during project implementation according to the
guidelines specified in Annex 5 (para. 2.13);
(j)   (a) a pilot scheme of charges for contraceptives will be carried out by June
30, 1999; (b) an action plan will be prepared on the basis of its results by
August 31, 1999 for review and comment by IDA; and (c) the action plan
will thereafter be promptly carried out (para. 2.25);
(k)   detailed proposals for all activities to be financed under the service delivery
model initiatives component will be submitted, through a Service Delivery
Model Initiatives Committee to be established by August 31, 1996 and
described in Annex 10, to IDA for prior review and approval, and
thereafter will be implemented as approved by IDA (para. 2.24);
(I)   in the event that the pilot test of a strengthened community-based outreach
system for family planning and family health described in Annex 11 is
evaluated as successful, an action plan for its implementation will be
submitted to IDA for approval, and then will be implemented as approved
in the project provinces (para. 2.15);
(m)   the project management structure as laid out in Annex 13 will be
established, staffed and maintained throughout the project implementation
period (para. 4.1);
(n)   all necessary steps will be taken to ensure that each of the project provinces
implements its activities under the project and is provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that
purpose (para. 4.4);
(o)   the project will be carried out in accordance with a strategy satisfactory to
IDA, which will: (a) be designed on the basis of studies and surveys
undertaken by qualified and experienced experts under terms of reference
and timing satisfactory to IDA; and (b) include provisions for the informed
participation of and consultation with a variety of representative
communities benefiting under the project, in particular communities with
ethnic minorities, to ensure that the design and implementation of the
project adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences of such
communities (para 4.26);
(p)   an Implementation Completion Report, based in part on the results of the
final evaluative surveys and studies, will be provided and discussed with
IDA within six months after the closing date of the project (para. 4.12);



- 60 -
(q)   a time-bound action plan for all training activities under the project will be
provided to IDA for review and comments by June 30, 1996 (para. 2.26);
and
(r)    Government would furnish IDA by September 30, 1996, and have an
exchange of views with IDA on, a comprehensive description of the policy
and implementation guidelines it will employ to ensure the effective
implementation of: (i) cost recovery with respect to the esssential drugs to
be provided by the project in those communes of project provinces where
applicable; and (ii) provision of essential drugs and supplies free of change
in mountainous and remote communes in project provinces. The policy
and implementation guidelines would be reviewed by the Government and
IDA each year thereafter and would be an explicit focus of the mid-term
review (para. 2.12).
6.2   As a condition of effectiveness, Government will provide evidence satisfactory to
IDA that: (a) the Project Steering Committee, the Project Executive Committee and the
NCPFP Project Management Unit have been established and the Project Director
appointed; and (b) the Provincial Project Management Units in the five provinces included
in the first phase of Component I have been established and the corresponding Provincial
Project Managers appointed (para. 4.1).
6.3    As a condition of disbursement for allowances for outreach workers under the
strengthened collaborator system, an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, for implementing
the strengthened system on the basis of the results of the pilot test will be provided to IDA
(para. 3.20).
6.4   Subject to the conditions in paras. 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 above, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 33.6 million (US$50 million
equivalent) to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam with 40 years of maturity, and 10 years
of grace.



- 61 -                       Annex I
THE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IN VIET NAM
Health Services
1.           Health services in Viet Nam are organized on a four-tiered system. At the
apex is the Ministry of Health (MOH), and below are the provincial, district and commune
level health services.
Central Level
2.           The MOH is the main national authority in the health sector and directly
manages faculty schools, national production units of drugs and medical equipment, and
all centrally-based hospitals (19% of all hospital beds and 7% of all health/medical
workers). The MOH, at the central level, is responsible for setting policy and technical
directions for the entire country.
3.           The MOH is organized into 13 functional departments responsible for
different activities such as training, family planning, maternal and child health, equipment
and construction, and finance, planning and policy. The MOH is assisted in its activities by
a number of central specialty institutes which function as tertiary care referral centers such
as the Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Institute for the Protection of Mothers and
Newborn, the National Institute of Nutrition, and a number of other institutes responsible
for research, training and patient care in the areas of pediatrics, tuberculosis, pharmacy
and traditional medicine. In addition to the MOH, there are a number of ministries which
provide parallel health services (e.g. Ministry of Defense).
4.           Over the years, Viet Nam has also developed a number of self-contained
vertical health programs, including malaria, TB and ARI control, and CDD, with
structures running from the central to the district level. These structures, though useful in
focusing attention and resources on important public health programs, are proving
inefficient in terms of duplication of resource allocation. Given the complex structure and
overlapping functions at the central level, there is a broad recognition of the need to
streamline the overall management of health services, as well as coordinate and integrate
the vertical programs for better cost efficiency.
Provincial Level
5.           The next level is the provincial health services which is responsible for the
center for preventive medicine stations, the local production of medical supplies, and
referral laboratory facilities. The provinces also run provincial hospitals and in some
cases, specialized hospitals (30% of all hospital beds). The provincial general hospitals are
intended to be referral centers and typically have all seven departments (internal medicine,



- 62 -                       Annex I
obstetrics and gynecology, surgery, pediatrics, infectious diseases, traditional medicine and
emergency ward). Manpower at the provincial level is 35% of the nation's total.
However, in practice, few of the patients cared for at these hospitals come from outer
communities and the vast majority reside in the general vicinity of the hospitals. The
hospitals therefore serve basic curative needs which could be effectively attended to at
lower levels of the health care delivery system.
6.           One other important component of the provincial health services are the
secondary medical schools. These schools train middle level health workers for their
provinces, such as assistant doctors, secondary midwives, nurses and secondary
pharmacists.
District Level
7.           The third level is the district level which is in charge of all medical facilities
that are intermediaries between the provincial and commune levels. The three components
of the district health services are the District Health Office which has surveillance and
program management responsibilities; the preventive medicine services dealing with EPI,
CDD, malaria control, vitamin A deficiency etc.; and the District Hospital which provides
first referral facilities to the commune level. The latter two components are now merged
into the District Health Centers which deal with both preventive and curative health
services.
8.           The district hospitals (18%  of all hospital beds and over 30%  of all
health/medical staff) have excess bed capacity because, in the past, financial allocations
were made based mainly on the number of beds they had. As a result, bed occupancy
rates average only 50%.
9.           Also, though most district health resources (manpower, finances, drugs,
equipment etc.) are concentrated in the district hospitals, the support these hospitals
provide to the lower levels vary in both quality and quantity. There is therefore an urgent
need to improve the quality of services and focus the range of services provided at this
level in order to facilitate its functioning as a first referral facility.
10.          There is also a hybrid facility which overlaps several communes known as
the inter-commune polyclinic (ICP). The ICPs (5% of all hospital beds) were envisaged as
centers to provide basic services at a higher level of sophistication (with some specialties
such as ophthalmology and dentistry), take referrals from CHCs and give supervision and
other technical services, including training, to CHCs. However, the ICPs do not appear to
be fulfilling this role, and in practice function as either CHCs or DHCs depending on their
capacity. The Government is currently initiating discussions on the future role of the
ICPs.



- 63 -                      Annex I
Commune Level
11.         At the commune level, the unit of service delivery is the commune health
center (CHC). Viet Nam has developed a wide network of commune health centers at the
grassroots level and CHCs account for 28% of all beds and 22% of health/medical staff in
the country. 93% of all communes have a CHC and the remaining communes (known as
'White communes') are to be provided with CHCs over the next three years. However,
observations indicate that much work needs to be done on the quality of available CHC
infrastructure. Many of these facilities are run-down and lack the most basic equipment
and drugs. Also, though in theory the CHCs are to be staffed by 3 to 5 health workers, in
practice over 60% of them lack even a secondary midwife.
12.         Each commune consists of a cluster of hamlets or villages, which is the
basic social unit in the country. Unfortunately, an outreach system (the brigade or
primary nurse system) which was in existence during the years of the war, has collapsed
and there is therefore no household level primary health system in Viet Nam.
Private Health Sector and its role in Primary Health Service Provision
13.         It is important to note the rising presence of the private sector in the
provision of health services in Viet Nam. The government has permitted private practice
since 1988, and this has resulted in the emergence of numerous pharmacies, and to a lesser
extent clinics, in both urban and semi-urban areas. A major issue facing private practice is
regulation to (a) ensure that standards of practice are set and enforced and (b) distinguish
between official and private practice among workers in the public sector.
14.         About 30% of health workers were forced into retirement due to economic
difficulties including demilitarization. Most of these retirees have returned to their
villages, and if well organized could be used to provide community-based health care,
especially in rural areas. It will however be necessary to establish specific role and
responsibilities for them in their communities.



HEALTH SERVICES ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE
_   _ s E _  2                           ~~~~~~~~~State Planning Committee
|INSTITUTE                       HOPIA                               =                                     PRODCTIO
Hygiene and                     Children maternity                             Doctors, pharmacists         Drugs, medical equipment,
Epidemiology                    Bach Mai, Viet Duc                             dentists, physiotherapists,  medical books, repair
laboratory technicians
CENTER FOR          |    |   HOSPITALS    |                                      SCHOOL                 PRODUCTION UNITS
|PREVENTIVE MEDICINE|                                                                                                                                      i
Tuberculosis, Dermatology       General, TB,Leprosy                           Asst. Doctors, nurses,        Drugs (Pharmacy)
MCH & FP                        Traditional Medicine                          midwives, pharmacists         medical equipment
..... _ p~~~~~~~~~eople's Committee
L~~~~~. .|P.....HARMACY|
CURATIVE   DEPARTMENT                  PREVENTIVE DEPT.            TRAINIG UNIT                 LOGISTIC SUPPORT
Central Laboratory      l
People's Commitee or
State enterprise
__._________'______                             Cooperative/Brigades
VILLAGE HEALTH
WORKERS FAMILIES



- 65 -                          Annex 2
THE FAMILY PLANNING SYSTEM
1.          The population and family planning program in Viet Nam has a dual
organizational structure which runs in parallel but is interactive and coordinated at the
different levels. The service delivery function is lodged in the MOH, Department of
MCH/FP, and all clinical family planning services are provided through the health system
(see Annex 1).
2.          In 1984, as part of an effort to improve the Government's capacity to
manage and implement the population programs, the Council of Ministers created the
National Committee for Population and Family Planning (NCPFP). In 1989, the status of
NCPFP was further elevated to that of the apex body in advising the Government on
policy formulation and program development. It is also responsible for intersectoral
coordination in the implementation of family planning programs of various ministries,
agencies, levels of government and mass organizations. The Minister of Population and
Family Planning acts as Chairman of the NCPFP. He is aided by three coordinating Vice-
Chairmen who are appointed by the Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of
Finance and Ministry of Health.
3.          The NCPFP network extends downwards and is replicated at the
provincial, district and commune levels. In addition, the NCPFP also has a collaborator
network at the hamlet level which is responsible for outreach work in the field of
population and family planning. In recent years, the CPFP network has been involved in
the distribution of non-clinical contraceptives (condoms, resupply of pills), and it is
estimated that 27% of couples received contraceptives from sources outside the health
force. Also, the collaborator network is the only formal outreach system at the grass-
roots level, and though currently not equipped to provide community-based primary health
care, the collaborators have the potential to be developed into primary health outreach
workers.



- 66 -                           Annex 2
FAMILY PLANNING ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE
I    PARTY AND
NCPFP                       1
NP _ _ _ _ _|AGENCIES/ MASS &
-                                         |SOCIAL ORGS.
II  JPROVINCIAL                                                      I 
IPARTY & AUTS.                 [                          i
PROVINCIAL/CITY   |
I   _          - _  CPFP                  AGENCIES/MASS &
III   DISTRICT PARTY/                                      SOCIAL ORGS.
AUTHORITIES
JDITRIT/PRECINCT|        
r                    CPFP       |        AGENCIES/MASS &
IV   COMMUNE PARTY/                                        SOCIAL ORGS.
AUTHORITIES_
i ........ J 4COMM UNE | 
l | ~~~~~~~PFP BOARD                    |AECIS/M ASS &
Y       HAMLET        |                  r                 SOCIAL ORGS.
I                           .-   I
COLLABORATORS   |             MOTIVATORS
VI                                                        HOUSEHOLD
NOTE:                  Directive and Guidance Line
- - - -          Monitoring and Coordination Line
I.   Central level
II.   Provincial level
III.  District level
IV.  Commune level
V.   Hamlet level
VI.  Household level



- 67 -                         Annex 3
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF PROVINCES FOR PHC UPGRADING
The selection of provinces followed three major principles:
1.          Provinces with unfavorable fertility, family planning and health
indicators would be given priority in coverage. The three fertility and health indicators
taken into consideration were the total fertility rate, infant mortality rate and contraceptive
prevalence rate.
2.          To provide more equitable distribution of funds, provinces with
substantial previous or current donor commitments were excluded, though they
would still participate in those components of the project that are meant to be nationwide
(such as IEC and management development). In effect, the scoring led to the exclusion
of all provinces covered by the UNFPA third cycle, the UNFPA fourth cycle, AusAID-
assisted provinces, GTZ-assisted provinces, as well as those selected for coverage under
the National Health Support Project.
3.          Among the remaining provinces, efforts would be made to cover as much
of the rural population as possible.
In addition to the above principles, consideration was given to the geographical spread
of the provinces, and their management capacity. Viet Nam has seven geographical
regions which differ in terms of various factors such as terrain, ethnic composition and
access to health and family planning services. By choosing project provinces from the
different regions, it would be possible to design and implement a project which reflects the
differing needs of the regions. This criterion therefore allows for replication of the
project, if successful, since the 15 project provinces could serve as models in the specific
regions. The provinces selected to be covered under the project were also judged to have
above-average management capacity. This was considered to be particularly important
given that the Population and Family Health Project is the first of its kind in terms of size
and scope; the success of such a project therefore depends heavily on the management
capacity at both the central as well as provincial levels.



- 68 -                          Annex 4
MATRIX OF PROJECT INDICATORS
A.    THE RATIONALE FOR PROGRAM INDICATORS
1.          There is a need for a consistent set of indicators to monitor and evaluate
the Population and Family Health Project at various times in the project cycle. Within the
broad framework of project aims and objectives, a matrix of specific objectives and
indicators at various levels has been established for the purposes of project monitoring and
impact evaluation.  Indicators cover four broad categories: (1) project inputs; (2)
measures of capacity and process; (3) program outputs; and (4) behavioral and
demographic impacts. The matrix is shown in full in Table 7 and should be integrated into
project reporting formats and management and supervisory arrangements. Minor changes
may be made, as needed, in the matrix during project implementation. Arrangements
should also be made to regularly review these indicators of project performance and to
implement improvements in project design based on the updated information.
2.          Within this matrix, ten key indicators have been selected to measure project
impact and achievement regarding key specific project objectives. These are linked to the
policy principles, strategies and specific project activities, as well as the Government's own
objectives. These indicators correspond to the objectives and management processes of
the Project.  Most of the key indicators measure demographic impacts or program
outputs, because ultimately these are the broad outcomes that we hope to affect over the
duration of the project. These indicators attempt to give some sense of the impact of
project activities on the lives of individual people in the population. They are not intended
to provide step-by-step guidance for the management of programs at the CHC or mobile-
team level. A wider range of indicators (see Table 7) is required for that purpose.
3.           At a minimum, calculation of key indicators should be carried out prior to
the beginning of the project, at mid-term, and following completion of the project.
Current levels of the indicators (where known) and objectives are shown in Table 1.
Adjustment may be required after information from the baseline surveys and baseline
studies becomes available.



Table A.4.1. A Summary of Key Indicators Selected
for the Viet Nam Population and Family Health Project
INDICATOR                  DEFINTION                    OBJECTIVE                SOURCE            NOTES
1. TFR: Total Fertility   Number of children bom to a  Reduction of TFR from    Baseline, mid-term, and   A well-defined standard demographic measure
Rate                woman who lives through her     current level of 2.9 to  final surveys.        that is sensitive to program efforts. Direct and
childbearing years and bears   below 2.5 in 2002.                              indirect measures available, usually for a
children at each age in accordance                                            multi-year period before the survey.
with prevailing age-specific
fertility rates in the specified
period.
2. CPR-MM.          Percentage of women of          Increase from current   Baseline, mid-term, and   An indicator of the achievement of the
Modem-Method         reproductive age using (or whose   level of 44% to 56% in   final surveys.    population and FP program. Generally, the
Contraceptive        partner is using) any form of  20022.                                         higher the CPR-MM, the lower the birth &
Prevalence Rate.     modem family planning (IUD,                                                   population growth rates. Although not one of  o
pills, injectables, Norplant,                                                 the key indicators, data on traditional methods
condoms, sterilization, diaphragm,                                            should also be collected.
etc). Abortion & menstrual
regulation should not be included.
3. Supply-based     Percentage of all contraceptive  Increase from current  Baseline, mid-term, and   The goals are two-fold: (I) to encourage
Methods as a        users who use temporary/short-    level of 10% to 25% in   final surveys.      women to use the more efficient modem
Percentage of Total    term, supply-based methods (oral   20022.                                   methods rather than the traditional methods
Contraceptive Use.    pills, condoms, injectables,                                                 that have high failure rates, and (2) to gauge
diaphragm/ foam/jelly).                                                       the extent to which contraceptive use is for
spacing purposes.
4. Access to Family    Percentage of women of       Objective will be set by    Baseline, mid-term, and   To be accessible, the following criteria must
Planning Services.    reproductive age who have easy  NCPFP members in     final surveys which     be met: the women must have access to at
access to family planning      collaboration with Bank   include a service delivery  least one of the following: (1) a community
methods.                       staff after baseline    module.                distributor of family planning services; (2) a  x
studies are completed.                         family planning field worker in the rural
I_These sources may also    village or urban neighborhood, with visitation



Table A.4.1. A Summary of Key Indicators Selected
for the Viet Nam Population and Family Health Project
INDICATOR                  DEFINITION                  OBJECTIVE                 SOURCE            NOTES
be supplemented with   at least once every two weeks, or (3) a fixed
facility records, if   service point not more than one kilometer
desired,               away.
5. Met Need for Life-   The proportion of women     Objective will be set by    Numerator: Facility  Most maternal deaths in developing countries
Saving Obstetric Care  estimated to have direct obstetric    NCPFP members in  records from DHC and    are caused by 5 causes-of-death: hemorrhage,
(LSOC).             complications that are managed at  collaboration with Bank   higher levels;    sepsis, eclampsia, obstructed labor, and
facilities that can provide    staff after baseline    Denominator: estimate    complications from abortion. This indicator
particular interventions, such as    studies are completed.    of number of live births    measures the proportion of women who
Caesarian section, antibiotics, etc.                   from baseline, mid-term,  require emergency treatment for these
or final surveys.      conditions who receive it in the appropriate
level of facilities.
6. TAR: Total       No. of abortions a woman would    Reduction in TAR by   Baseline, mid-term, and   The TAR takes into account the probability of
Abortion Rate.      have in her lifetime if current  30% by year 2002'.    final evaluation surveys.   becoming pregnant and the probability of
levels of abortion persist. A sum                                             terminating each pregnancy throughout the
of current age-specific abortion                                              reproductive life cycle. It also indicates how
rates.                                                                        widely and effectively contraceptive services
are used. It is also useful to calculate a Total
MR Rate.
7. Utilization of CHC   Percent of pregnant women   Objective will be set by    Calculated from a  A proxy for total pregnancies is the number of
facilities for antenatal  attended at least once for  NCPFP members in      household survey or    live births, which may be adjusted upward by
care.                pregnancy at the CHC-level.    collaboration with Bank   devised by combining  25 percent to allow for stillbirths and
staff after baseline   client data from CHC    abortions.
studies are completed.    records with an estimate
of total pregnancies from
a survey.
x



Table A.4.1. A Summary of Key Indicators Selected
for Viet Nam Population and Family Health Project
INDICATOR    DEFINITION                              OBJECTIVE                SOURCE                  NOTES
8. Percentage of one-   Proportion of one-year-olds who  Objective will be set by    Special studies at 3  This percentage reflects the immunization
year-olds who were   were fully immunized by 8 doses    NCPFP members in      points: (1) baseline, (2)    coverage against dangerous diseases among
fully immunized as   of 6 kinds of vaccines (3 of DPT, 3  collaboration with Bank   mid-term; & (3)   children, namely diphtheria, pertussis,
infants.             of polio, I of BCG and I of     staff after baseline     completion of project.  measles, poliomyelitis, and tuberculosis. A
measles) as infants.            studies are completed.  Numerator: from health   high proportion of infants in Viet Nam receive
cards & facility records    at least partial immunization. This indicator
with province.          measures complete coverage.
Denominator: estimate
of 1 -year-olds from
demographic surveys.
9. IMR: Infant       Number of infants who die before   Reduction in IMR from    Baseline, mid-term, and   A well-defined demographic measure, which
Mortality Rate.      reaching one year of age, per   current level of about 40   final survey.        is a good indicator of the general health status
1,000 live births in a given year.   to 25 by 2002.                             of a given area or population.
10. Management       Management information items    Objective will be set by    Program planning and  This new summary measure evaluates whether
information score.   available in central NCPFP office   NCPFP members in     assessment documents,    18 pieces of key data are available at the
in the areas of facilities and  collaboration with Bank   interviews with       central office through a series of yes/no
equipment, personnel,           staff after baseline    managers.                questions. Improvements in the indicator show
commodities and logistics,      studies are completed.                           increased capacity to make management
fmance, and service statistic.                                                   decisions and to rectify bottlenecks in the
system.
Objectives may be adjusted to reflect information from the baseline surveys/studies.
Objective refers to married women of reproductive age.
x



- 72 -                            Annex 4
Total Fertility Rate (TFR).
4.           Definition:   The TFR measures the average number of children that
would be born to a woman during her lifetime if she replicated the childbearing experience
of all cohorts in a given period.
Background: The TFR directly represents one of the two operational
objectives of the project, to reduce population growth by the year 20002.
5            Method of Calculation:
49                45-49
TFXR, =  EASFRi,    5 * EASFRi.J
i=15-19           *=15-19
Where:
ASFRi.t: the number of births in time t to 1000 women of a particular age (i), i.e. age
specific fertility rate for women aged i at time t;
Total number of children ever born to women of age
ASFRi,=      group i at time t                            x 1000
Average number of women in age group i at time t
i: the five-year age groups of women of reproductive age (15-19 to 45-49); t: a given year.
6.            Data source and data collection:  To be collected in three project
surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review, and (3) final evaluation survey. Results
from these surveys should be compared to other data collection efforts, such as population
censuses, inter-censal demographic surveys, and other sources.
7.            Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
8.            Disaggregation:  Key indicator will be based on national-level data.
However, the following should also be calculated: (1) province-level TFRs (2) urban/rural
TFRs, and (3) TFRs for major ethnic minority groups.
9.            Frequency of Data Collection:   Three data collection efforts are
required: at baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.



- 73 -                           Annex 4
Modern-Method Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR-MM)
10.          Definition: The CPR-MM measures the percentage of women of child-
bearing age (15 to 49) who are using, or whose partners are using, any form of modem
contraception.
11.          Background:  Improvements in this indicator, which is sensitive to
program activities, imply that the birth rate and population growth rate will be reduced. It
also measures the effectiveness of project activities, including the acquisition and
disbursement of modem methods of contraception.
12.          Method of Calculation:
No. of women aged 15-49 who are currently
contracepting (or whose partners are contracepting) using
a modem form of contraception in a given year  * 100
Number of women aged 15-49 in the same year
Where,
Modern forms of contraception are defined as IUDs (copper-t or multi-load), female or
male sterilization, contraceptive pills, injectables, Norplant implants, condoms, and
diaphragms/jelly/spermicide.
13.          Data source and data collection:  To be collected in three project
surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review, and (3) final evaluation survey. Data
collection efforts should concentrate on gathering information on current use of
contraception (though data on ever-use is also useful). Results from these surveys should
be compared to other data collection efforts, such as population censuses, inter-censal
demographic surveys, and other sources, although project evaluation will be based on data
collected in the project surveys and special studies.
14.          Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
15.          Disaggregation:  Key indicator will be based on national-level data.
However, the following should also be calculated: (1) province-level CPR-MMs (2)
urban/rural CPR-MMs and (3) CPR-MMs for major ethnic minority groups.
16.          Frequency of Data Collection: Three data collection efforts are required:
at baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.



- 74 -                            Annex 4
Supply-based Method Use as a Percentage of Total Contraceptive Use.
17.          Definition: This indicator measures the percentage of all family planning
users (including traditional method users) who use temporary, short-term, supply-based
methods of contraception.
18.          Background: One objective of the Population and Family Health Project
is to encourage women who use traditional methods of family planning for spacing
purposes to use short-term, supply-based methods of contraception.
19.          Method of Calculation:
# of women aged 15-49 who are currently
contracepting (or whose partners are) using
% using Supply- supply-based methods in a given year  * 100
based Methods = Number of women aged 15-49 who use any
form of contraception (including traditional
methods) in the same year
Where supply-based methods are defined as contraceptive pills, injectables, condoms, and
diaphragms! foam/jelly.
20.           Data source and data collection:  To be collected in three project
surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review, and (3) final evaluation survey. Data
collection efforts should concentrate on gathering information on current use of
contraception (though data on ever-use is also useful). It is also recommended that the
results from these surveys be compared to other data collection efforts, such as population
censuses, inter-censal demographic surveys, and other sources, although project
evaluation will be based on data collected in the project surveys and special studies.
21.           Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
22.           Disaggregation:  Key indicator will be based on national-level data.
However, the following should also be calculated: (1) province-level indicators (2)
urban/rural indicators and (3) indicators for major ethnic minority groups.
23.           Frequency of Data Collection:  Three data collection efforts are
required: at baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.



- 75 -                            Annex 4
Access to Family Planning Services.
24.          Definition: the percentage of women of reproductive age with easy access
to family planning methods.
25.          Background: access to family planning services can be measured directly
by distance to fixed facilities or travel time to them. To be accessible, the following
criteria must be met: the women must have access to at least one of the following: (1) a
community distributor of family planning services; (2) a family planning field worker in the
rural village or urban neighborhood, with visitation at least once every two weeks, or (3) a
fixed service point not more than one kilometer away.
26.          Method of calculation
% of women of No. of women of reproductive age who have access to
RA who have  =    family planning services as defined in given year    * 100
access to FP        Total # of women of reproductive age ( 1549)
in the same yr
27.           Data source and data collection: Data for this indicator will be collected
in three project surveys: (1) a baseline survey, (2) mid-term review, and (3) final
evaluation survey. The data will be based on standard questions on whether or not
specific family planning services are available to women of reproductive age. If services
are available, the women will be asked a series of additional questions in a service delivery
module. Issues to be addressed include the source (including name) of closest supplier of
family planning services and supplies, proximity of service provider to questionnaire
respondent, and the frequency of visitation by mobile team members and whether mobile
team visits are predictable or ad-hoc. Questions should also address whether women have
access to services that are better than the closest supplier. Service availability modules
that have been developed by Macro International, Inc. for the Demographic and Health
Surveys (see the questionnaire for Namibia, for instance) could provide a useful starting
point in the design of this component of the Vietnam surveys.
The usefulness of this indicator can be greatly enhanced by combining
women's responses from the survey with facility records. For instance, for women who
report that a CHC is easily accessible, records from this facility could also be examined.
Useful records would include: a listing of contraceptives that were available in the facility
by week (or alternatively, a listing of stock-outs); a listing of medical personnel that could
prescribe various contraceptives by week; listing of contraceptives actually prescribed; etc.



- 76 -                             Annex 4
28.           Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
29.           Disaggregation:  The key indicator will be reported for province-level
data, with reporting to the national level. Calculations for lower levels (districts) may
provide important information about where to enhance mobile team efforts. Urban/rural
indicators, as well as indicators for major ethnic minority groups, should also be
calculated.
30.           Frequency of data collection: Three data collection efforts are required:
at baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.
B.   MATERNAL HEALTH INDICATORS:
Met Need for Life-Saving Obstetric Care (LSOC).
31.           Definition: this indicator measures the proportion of women estimated to
have direct complications that are managed in facilities that can provide the basic services
that are required for obstetric complications
32.           Background: five major conditions are responsible for the majority of
maternal deaths in developing countries world-wide: hemorrhage, sepsis, eclampsia and
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, obstructed or prolonged labor, and complications
from  abortion.  These conditions are generally unpredictable emergencies for which
adequate emergency care is essential. Even when they can be predicted, the same level of
care will be needed. The provision of such care provides indicators that are more practical
and immediate than estimation of maternal mortality rates or ratios.
33.           Method of Calculation
No. of complicated deliveries (1) in past year that
Met Need   were managed in hospitals or facilities (2) that
for LSOC =
could provide ALL of the services listed in (3) * 100
Estimated number of direct obstetric complications among
pregnant women (4) in the same year.
Simplified to:
No. of complicated deliveries (1) in past year that
Met Need     were managed in hospitals or facilities (2) that
for LSOC =  could provide all of the services listed in (3)  * 100
15% * number of life births in year



- 77 -                            Annex 4
Where, (a) A "complicated case" is a woman who is diagnosed as having any one (or
more) of the following conditions: ante-partum or post-partum hemorrhage, prolonged or
obstructed labor, post-partum sepsis, complications of abortion, pre-eclampsia or
eclampsia, ectopic pregnancy, or ruptured uterus. If the woman has more than one of
these complications, select the most immediately life-threatening one; (b) Managed "in
hospitals or facilities that could provide ..." includes both women admitted with the
complication and women who develop the complication in the facility; (c) Basic services
that MUST be provided are: parenteral antibiotics, oxytocics, and sedatives; manual
removal of the placenta; removal of retained products of conception; and assisted (vaginal)
delivery. This condition assumes that both skilled staff and essential equipments and drugs
are available at the facility at all times. This is a minimum standard. More comprehensive
facilities should be able to provide all of the above services, plus obstetric surgery and
blood transfusions; (d) The denominator is based on two assumptions: that a roughly
constant proportion of pregnancies, around 15 percent, involve major complications and
that most of these require emergency care.
Table A.4.4.
A Listing of Basic Life-Saving Obstetric Services
Parenteral antibiotics
Oxytocics
Sedatives
Manual removal of the placenta
Removal of retained products of conception
Assisted (vaginal) delivery
34.          Data source and data collection:
Numerator: facility records from DHC and higher levels.
Denominator: estimate of live births from demographic survey.
Special studies will need to be carried out in order to calculate this indicator. The studies
will be done at three points in time: (1) as a baseline at the beginning of the project; (2) at
mid-term; and, (3) at completion of the project.



- 78 -                           Annex 4
35.          Coverage of data collection: Key indicator will be calculated at the
province-level. Data should be collected for the whole country. Alternatively, the 15
project provinces can be compared to a representative sample of 15 provinces which are
not having improvements in the health infrastructure financed by the World Bank or Asian
Development Bank.
36.          Disaggregation: Calculation for major ethnic minority groups.
37.          Frequency of Data Collection: Three studies are required: at baseline,
mid-term, and at completion of the project.
Total Abortion Rate (TAR).
38.         Definition: The TAR measures the number of abortions a woman would
have in her lifetime if current levels of abortion persist. This rate is a sum of current age-
specific abortion rates, which may themselves be of interest if there are specific age
patterns of concern in abortion.
39.          Background: The TAR takes into account the probability of becoming
pregnant and the probability of terminating each pregnancy throughout the reproductive
life cycle. It also indicates how widely and effectively contraceptive services are used. It
may also be useful to calculate a Total MR Rate.
40.          Method of Calculation:
49              45-49
TARi,t = ZASARi., = 5 * YASAR i,
i=15             i=15-]9
Where,
ASARj,t: the number of abortions in time t to 1000 women of a particular age i, i.e.
age specific abortion rates for women aged i in time t;
ASARi,j =    Total no.of abortions to women of age group i in time t x 1000
Number of women in age group i in time t
i: the five-year age groups of women of reproductive age (15-19 to 45-49).
t: a given year.
41.          Data source and data collection:  To be collected in three project
surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review, and (3) final evaluation survey.



- 79 -                            Annex 4
42.           Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
43.           Disaggregation:  Key indicator will be based on national-level data.
However, the following should also be calculated: (1) province-level TARs, (2) urban/rural
TARs, and (3) TARs for major ethnic minority groups.
44.           Frequency of Data Collection:   Three data collection efforts are
required: at baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.
Utilization of CHC facilities for antenatal care services.
45.          Definition: Percentage of pregnant women attended at least once for
pregnancy at the CHC-level.
46.           Background:  Prenatal care services contribute substantially to lower
infant mortality and can effectively alleviate chronic conditions of pregnancy (anaemia,
hypertensive disorders, infections).
47.          Method of Calculation:
No. of pregnant women who were seen at a CHC
% of pregnant in past 5 years for reasons related to their pregnancies * 100
women attended = Total # of pregnant women in past five years
Simplified to,
No. of pregnant women who were seen at a CHC I
% of pregnant in past 5 years for reasons related to their pregnancies * 100
women attended = Total number of births in past 5 years + (25%
of total number of births in past five years)
48.           Data source and data collection: The data for this indicator is to be
collected in three project surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review survey, and (3)
final evaluation survey. The indicator measures pregnancy-related utilization of prenatal
care in the past five years. The long time interval allows the estimation of statistically
significant estimates based on a large number of pregnancy cases. It is also useful to
evaluate whether women who were pregnant in the last year utilized the services,
particularly if quality improvements had been implemented in the past year, but the results
should be interpreted with caution because of the smaller sample sizes.
49.           The coverage of data collection: The whole country.



- 80 -                           Annex 4
50.          Disaggregation: The key indicator will report province-level data, with
reporting to the national level.  However, the following indicators should also be
calculated: (a) urban/rural (b) by age group of the mother (c) by parity of the mother and
(d) by major ethnic minority group.
51.          Frequency of data collection: Three data collection efforts are required:
at baseline, at mid-term, and at completion of the project.
C.    INFANT AND CHILDHOOD INDICATORS:
Infant Mortality Rate (IMR).
52.          Definition: The number of deaths of infants under I year of age per 1,000
live births in a given year.
53.          Background: The IMR, a well-defined demographic measure, is a good
indicator of the general health status of a given area or population.
54.          Method of calculation:
IMR =    No. of deaths to infants under age one in a given year * 1000
Total number of live births in the same year
55.          Data source and collection: The data are to be collected in three project
surveys: (1) baseline survey, (2) mid-term review survey, and (3) final evaluation survey.
56.          Coverage of data collection: The whole country.
57.          Disaggregation: National- and province-level IMRs are required. The
following should also be calculated: (1) urban/rural IMRs, (2) IMRs by sex, and, (3)
IMRs by major ethnic minority group.
58.          Frequency of data collection: Three data collection efforts are required,
(I) at baseline, (2) at mid-term, and (3) at the completion of the project.
Proportion of one-year-olds who were fully immunized as infants.
59.          Definition: Proportion of one-year-olds were fully immunized as infants.



- 81 -                             Annex 4
60.           Background:  UNICEF recommends that infants receive 8 injections
against six major causes of disease in the first year of life. This indicator measures the
proportion of infants (per 100) who are immunized before their first birthdays against:
> diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus (3 injections);
> poliomyelitis (3 injections);
> measles (1 injection);
>tuberculosis (linjection).
61.           Method of calculation:
No. of children in a given year who are currently exactly aged 1 who
were given all 8 doses of 6 kinds of vaccine in the
% fully     previous year                                    * 100
immunized = No. of children in a given year who are currently
exact aged I
This indicator is based on one-year olds to avoid truncation bias, i.e. to catch infants after
they have had the opportunity to have received the full immunization schedule during
infancy.
62.           Data source and data collection: Special studies will need to be carried
out in order to calculate this indicator. The studies will be done at three points in time: (1)
as a baseline at the beginning of the project; (2) at mid-term; and, (3) at completion of the
project. The numerator will be based on health cards and other facility records from
facilities within province. The denominator will be an estimate of one-year-olds from a
demographic survey.
63            Coverage of data collection: The key indicator will be calculated at the
province-level. Data should be collected for the whole country.
64.           Disaggregation: By urban/rural; by sex; and by major ethnic minority
group.
65.           Frequency of Data Collection: Three special studies are required: at
baseline, mid-term, and at completion of the project.



- 82 -                           Annex 4
D.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY INDICATORS:
Management information score.
66.          Definition: This indicator, the management information score, is a
measure of the access to current information on key areas of program functioning,
covering such areas as facilities and equipment, personnel, commodities and logistics,
finance, and service statistics
67.          Background: A measure of institutional capital.
68.          Method of calculation: The management information score is defined as
a single number, from 0 to 13, which indicates the availability of the following 13 items of
information in the central program office. All must be complete and no more than one
year old to score an affirmative point.
Management Information Score
1.    Infrastructure/Inventory
-     Number, type and location of all service delivery points
-     Equipment Inventory, specify location and condition
-     Vehicle inventory, specify location and condition
2.    Human Resources/Training
-     Number of staff by current assignment
-     Number and location of Vacant Positions
-     List of scheduled training courses and number of trainees by type
3.    Procurement
-     Quantity of each commodity procured
-     Quantity of each commodity disbursed to lower levels
-     Inventory levels for each commodity at distribution point
4.    Administrative
-     Funds budgeted by major budget line item
-     Expenditures by major budget item by district
5.    Service Delivery
-     Number of family planning and health visits by District
-     Number of new family planning acceptors by method and District



- 83 -                           Annex 4
This score implies that information of each type contributes to a more effective program.
Note that all of this information does not have to be present for the score to be calculated.
Most programs will be lacking at least some types of information, but even if a program
lacked every one of these types, it could still be assigned a score, namely zero.
69.                Data source and collection: The list of 13 items should be
available in the central office of the National Committee for Population and Family
Planning (NCPFP), based on information collected from provinces and lower levels.
70.          Coverage of data collection: Management information score required at
national-level.
71.          Disaggregation: None required, but it would be useful for lower-level
officials (province-level down to service delivery points) to have access to the same set of
data for their respective units to assist in the management of programs.
72.          Frequency of data collection:   At a minimum, the management
information score should be estimated at baseline, mid-term, and at the completion of the
project. An annual compilation of the score, coupled with a plan to improve data
management for the areas that are deemed weak, would be ideal.



Table A.4.7 INDICATORS FOR TRACKING COMPONENTS OF THE VIET NAME POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Component                  Strategic Objectives    Activities                        Tracking and Monitoring Indicators (1)
I. Service Delivery in 15  1. Renovating and       Ia. Upgrading or replacement of   % of CHC's by, district and province, that have been upgraded according to plan
Provinces                  replacement of existing    civil works.                   # planned, in progress, completed by project period
CHCs premises to a
degree sufficient to
provide agreed set of
basic PHC services,
including family
planning;
DHC & FP/MCH            lb. Procurement of medical       % of medical equipment, by category, ordered compared to plan
Centers                 equipment and furniture for all  % of medical equipment, by category, delivered to facility
CHCs sufficient to cover agreed list  % complete delivery of medical equipment
of essentials for basic PHC      % of furniture, by category, ordered compared to plan
services.                        % of furniture, by category, delivered to facility
% complete delvery of furniure
Contractor maintains inventory system by line-item (Yes/No)
Delivery Performance Indicator
I c. Procurement of annual supplies   % of Drugs & Medical Supplies, by category, ordered compared to pln
of essential drugs & medical     % of Drugs & Medical Supplies, by category, delivered to facility
supplies for all CHC's sufficient to    % complete delivery of Drugs & Medical Supplies
cover agreed list required for basic    Contractor maintains inventory system by line-item (Yes/No)
PHC services.                    Delivery Performance Indicator
2. Training             2a. Refresher training for two   # planned, completed training by training type, by period                                                  Oo
health workers per CHC in skills  % completed, dropout by training type, by period
needed to provide basic FP/MCH   Training evaluation, skills assessment, completed by training type (Yes/No)
and other PHC services.          Person weeks oftraining planned vs. completed
11. Information Education/    1. Support program's  Ia. Program IEC.                Key program strategies and messages designed by area (Yes/No)
Communication campaign    service delivery                                           Production of educatdon and training materials for IEC (Yes/No)
(IEC) (5*)                 component by creating                                    Production of advertising and promotional materials (Yes/No)
long-term demand for                                     % IEC materias produced against plan, by period
population and family                                    % IEC messages distributed against plan, by period
health services.                                         Completion of IEC studies, by type (Yes/No)
lb. National Social Marketing    Social marketing agency contracted, by campaign type (Yes/No)
scheme (Primarily for urban areas).   National socid maruketing program implemented (Yes/No)
I c. Provision of Refresher training    # planned, completed training by training type, by period
in counseling/lEC for current    % completed, dropout by training type, by period
collaborator work-force.         Training evaluation, skills assessment, completed by training type (Yes/No)
Person weeks of training planned vs. completed
X



- 85 -                                            Annex 4
111. Provision of          1. Support the expansion   Ia. Provision of contraceptive  % of Contraceptives, by category, ordered compared to plan
Contraceptive Supplies     of the contraceptive    supplies, including contraceptive  % of Contraceptives, by category, delivered to facility
method mix in order to    pills (low-dose & progesterone  % complete delivery of Contraceptives
reach prevalence for    only), injectables, Norplant, and  Contractor maintains inventory system by line-item (Yes/No)
modem methods of 65%    multi-load IlTD's.               Delivery Performance Indicator
by 2000, and improve
service quality
IV. Family Planning        1. Management           Ia. Assessment of training needs  Assessment of management training needs completed (Yes/No)
Program Management         Development
Development
lb. Development of training      Development of curriculumn for management tradning completed (Yes/No)
curricula
Ic. Training oftrainers          # of core management trainers appointed
TOT training's completed (Yes/No)
I d. Training of Workers         # planned, completed training by training type, by period
/ completed, dropout by training type, by period
Training evaluation, sidlls assessment, completed by training type (Yes/No)
Person weeks of training planned vs. compided
2. Strengthening of     2a. Development of MIS           NCPFP MIS system installed (Yes/No)
program planning and                                     % of Provinces with MIS systems & training completed                                                      oo
reporting systems                                        Completion of MIS plans by function area (Yes/No)
% of MIS software systems completed against plans
2b. Management Organization      Advisory/Evaluation comnittee formed to monitor program activities(Yes/No)
Program review process in place (Yes/No)
V. Model Service Delivery                                                           Indicatorsfor this component wiU be based on activities planned by theproject
Activities
Project Management                                 a. Major surveys completed       Completion of major project surveys (Yes/No)
Activities                                                                          Training Evaluation completed (Yes/No)
Audits Completed (Yes/No)
b. Management Organization/      Advisory/Evaluation conmmttee formed to monitor program activities(Yes/No)
Policy Development               Strategic plan completed (Yes/No)
c. Project Management            Budget by Estimates and Expenditures by period
Statement of Expenses (SOEs) by Expenditures and SOEs by period
Contacts monitored by Budget Estimates and Expenditures by period by type
Contract performance indicator tracked (Yes/No)
Annual project impleenation time-line mintiained by minor milestones (Yes/No)
(*) Bold indicates official Indicator, normal indicates project will provide information in annual report
(**) Monitonng indicators of IEC activites will be takenfrom operations research andfield observations; These indicators should measure basic KAPB information;                               X



- 86 -                                Annex 5
PACKAGE OF INPUTS FOR UPGRADING OF
PROVINCIAL PHC SYSTEMS
Introduction
1.             One of the objectives of the project is to strengthen the delivery of family
planning/reproductive health/primary health through basic health facilities. The grassroots
health system in Viet Nam consists of the commune health center (CHC) which is the first
point of contact between the community and the health force; and the district health center
which acts as a first referral facility for the CHC. In addition, provincial MCH/FP centers
play a significant role in the training and supervision of the lower levels. The project,
therefore, provides inputs to all three levels in an effort to strengthen service delivery.
Commune Level
Civil Works
2.             The commune health facilities can basically be divided into two categories -
(a) out-patient facilities and (b) in-patient facilities.  Under the project, the options
available for facility strengthening are:
Categories of Facilities     No intervention         Renovation            New Construction
Out-patient                  a) white communes       (a) if existing facility is  (a) if existing facility is
(*waiting area/ LEC/reception,   b) if facility is within  an out-patient facility    an out-patient facility
*consulting room/           one hour travel time of a  (b) if cost of renovation  (b) if cost of renovation
examination room,          DHC using common       is equal to or less than   is more than 60% of
*technical services room,   mode of transport for the  60% of the cost of new   the cost of new
*toilet,                    area (exception: CHCs   construction           construction
*safe water supply)         in high mountainous
and island areas)
In-patient facility          a) white communes       (a) if existing facility is  (a) if existing facility is
(*waiting area/IEC/ reception,   b) if facility is within  an in-patient facility  an in-patient facility
*consulting room/           one hour travel time of a  (b) if cost of renovation  (b) if cost of renovation
examination room,          DHC using common       is equal to or less than   is more than 60% of
*technical services         mode of transport for the  60% of the cost of new   the cost of new
room/delivery room,        area                    construction          construction
two post-partumJin-  patient
beds
*toilet,
*safe water supply)



- 87 -                            Annex 5
3            The area which will be renovated in the CHCs for out-patient services
would be 70sq.m and the area of CHCs which would be renovated with in-patient services
would be 95sq.m. When considering new construction, the area of the CHC would be
kept to a minimum (initial estimates were about 70sq.m) without compromising the
delivery of services. This implies that when a CHC would need in-patient services, all
efforts would be made to ensure that health service delivery norms are maintained and
additional area would be provided if necessary. A total of 1616 CHCs would be
renovated/constructed in the 15 provinces under the project.
4.           In addition to the commune health centers, the project would also be
supporting the construction of health posts at the commune level on a pilot basis, in the
high mountainous and island areas of the country (which are currently not being reached
by the health system). These health posts will consist of a room with examination capacity
and area for a health worker to reside on the premises. The estimated area is about
27sq.m and the number of such health posts would be 440.
Furniture, Basic Medical Equipment, Essential Drugs and Medical Supplies
5.           All CHCs in the 15 project provinces (3190) would receive a package of
furniture, basic medical equipment and essential drugs and medical supplies which would
support the family planning and family health service delivery functions of the health
center. The actual quantities would be based on the results of the infrastructure survey of
existing furniture, equipment and drugs and medical supplies in the CHCs. This would be
further fine-tuned at the provincial level, based on any changes (supplies from Government
or other donors) that may occur in the interim period.
Furniture and Medical Equipment at Commune Level
Serial    For Health Post                        For CHC
No.
I      Bicycle                                  Acupuncture needle
2      Cotton wool absorbent non-sterile 1O0g  Aspirator nasal infant size 30 ml
3      Disinfector Instrument Boiling type Fuel  Bag hot - water & ice combination 2 liter
rubber
4      Forceps hermostat straight (Kocher Ochsner)  Basin kidney 475ml
180mm
5      Fuel Burner                             Basin kidney 825 ml
6      Hand Bag                                Basin solution deep approx. 6 liter.
7      Scale physician adult metric            Bath baby oval 25 liters polyethylene



- 88 -                                Annex 5
Serial     For Health Post                           For CHC
No.
8       Scissors surgical straight 145 mm B/B SS     Bed-pan fracture Jones SS
9       Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300 mm/Hg            Bowel sponge 600 ml stainless steel
10      Splints cramer wire type                     Catgut suture size 2
11      Stethoscope binaural complete                Cup solution 180 ml
12      Stethoscope fetal pinard monaural            Cupboard for drugs/instruments
13      Tape measure 1.5ml60 Vinyl coated fiberglass  Dilator uterine double-ended pratt SS
14      Thermometer clinical oral                    Disinfector Instrument Boiling type Fuel
15      Tray instr/dressing w/cover 3 10x63 mm       Ditsinfector instr. boiling type
16      Toilet soap                                  Dropper medicine straight tip ungraduated
17                                                   Drum, sterilizing, cylindrical 240 mm diam
18                                                   Flashlight Pre-focused 2 cell right-angled
head
19                                                   Forceps dressing spring type 210rnm SS
20                                                   Forceps hemostat straight (Kocher Ochsner)
180 mm
21                                                   Forceps sponge holding straight 200mm SS
22                                                    Forceps sterilizer (Utility) 200mm Vaughn
CRM
23                                                    Forceps tissue spring type 1x2 teeth 200mm S
24                                                   Forceps uterine tenaculum 280mm
25                                                   Forceps, IUD removal, alligator jaw type, 8
26                                                    Gas burner with gas container
27                                                   Gloves surgeon's latex size 6 1/2 (pair)
28                                                   Gloves surgeon's latex size 7 (pair)
29                                                   Gynecological examination table
30                                                   Holder needle straight broad-jaw Mayo HGR
20
31                                                   Irrigator 1.5 liter w/tubing-clamp & STR
connect
32                                                   Karnan syringe single valve



-89-                                  Annex 5
Serial  For Health Post                               For CHCs
No.
33                                                     Knife blade for major surgery #21
34                                                     Knife handle surgical for major surgery #4
35                                                     Labor & Delivery bed (Viet Nam) SS
36                                                     Measure graduate w/handle 500ml/
I pint
37                                                     Needle hypo 0.55x 19mm/24gx 3/4
luer box of
38                                                    Needle hypo 0.7x 32 mm/22gx 1-1/4 luer box
of
39                                                    Needle hypo 0.9x 38mm/20gx 1-1/2 luer box
of
40                                                    Needle suture 3/8 circle cutting assorted
41                                                    Needle suture, uterine, Martin 1/2 circle
42                                                    Pail waste with cover 12 liter SS
43                                                    Path strip urinary protein
44                                                    Pelvimeter Collyer external grad Cms/lnches
45                                                    Pot with cover and spigot 23 liter Aluminum
46                                                    Pump breast hand rubber bulb glass/plastic
bell
47                                                    Scale infant clinic metric 15.5 kg x 5g
48                                                    Scale physician adult metric 140kgsxlOO
49                                                    Scissors bandage angular lister 180mm SS
50                                                    Scissors dissect curved 145mmB/B
5 1                                                   Scissors dissect straight Mayo 170mm B/B SS
52                                                    Scissors episiotomy angular Braun 145 mm
SS
53                                                    Scissors surgical curved 140mmS/B SS
54                                                    Scissors surgical straight 145mmB/B SS



-90-                               Annex 5
Serial  For Health Post                             For CHC
No.
55                                                  Scissors surgical straight 145mmS/B
SS
56                                                  Scissors uterine curved Sims 200mm
SS
57                                                  Serilizer pressure electrical/Fuel 18 liter
58                                                  Sound uterine Simpson 300mm graduated in 20
59                                                  Speculum vaginal bi-valve graves medium
60                                                  Speculum vaginal bi-valve graves small
61                                                  Speculum vaginal weighted auvard 38x75 mm
62                                                  Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300 mm/Hg with
cuff
63                                                  Stethoscope binaural complete
64                                                  Stethoscope fetal pinard monaural
65                                                  Stool revolving adjustable height enamel
66                                                  Stretcher, Army type folding
67                                                  Stretcher, folding type
68                                                  Suture cotton white non sterile 00 USP 91 m
69                                                  Syringe hypo 2ml luer, 5 ml luer, lOml luer, 20
ml luer
70                                                  Syringe rectal infant rubber bulb hard tip 30 ml
71                                                  Table instrument on wheels
72                                                  Tape Measure 1.5/60 Vinyl coated fiberglass
73                                                  Thermometer clinical oral
74                                                  Tongue depressor 165 mm metal
75                                                  Tray inst./dressing w/cover 3 lOx 195x63 mm
76                                                  Tray instr/shallow 480x 330xl9mm
77                                                  Tray instrument/shallow 480x330xl9mm
78                                                  Urinal male upright model 1.5 liter SS
79                                                  Water filter aluminum with 4 Stearyl
candles



- 91 -                               Annex 5
List of Essential Drugs and NMedical Supplies at Commune Level
Serial   For Health Post                            For CHC
No.
1       Ferrous Sulfate and Folate Tab             Amoxycillin 250mg Tab
2       Iodine Solution 30ml Bottle 2.5%           Atropine Sulphate 1/4mg Amp
3       Mebendazole 100mg Tab                      Bandage gauze non-sterile roll
4       Neomycin + Bacitracin oint. 20g/Tube       Benzyl Benzoate Emulsion 25% 1 lit
5       Paracetamol 100mng Tab                     Benzyl Penicillin 0.6gfVial
6       Penicillin V 250mg Tab                     Chlorpheniramine Maleate 4mg Tab
7       Tetracycline eye oint. 1% 5g/Tube          Co-Trimoxazole (400 + 80) Tab
8                                                  Cotton non-sterile 100gm
9                                                  Diazepam 5mg Tab
10                                                 Erythromycin 250mg Cap
11                                                 Ferrous Sulphate and Folate Tab
12                                                 First aid dressing
13                                                 Hypothiazide 40mg Tab
14                                                 Iodine Solution 30ml Bottle 2.5%
15                                                 Magnesium Trisilicate Tab
16                                                 Mebendazole 100mg Tab
17                                                 Methyl Ergometrine 0.125 mg Tab
18                                                 Metronidazole 250mg Tab
19                                                 Neomycin + Bacitracin oint. 20g/
20                                                 Nystatin pessary 100,000IU
21                                                  Oxytocin SUI Amp
22                                                 Pantathenol Tube
23                                                 Papaverine 100mg Amp
24                                                  Paracetamol 100mg Tab
25                                                 Penicillin V 250mg Tab
26                                                  Tetracycline eye oint. 1% 5g/Tube
27                                                  Xylocaine injection 1% 50ml Bottle
District Level
Civil Works
6.             The role of DHCs as a first-referral facility for providing basic health care
to a community clearly rmandates investments in specific areas of the DHCs which are
primarily used in its function as a support facility for CHCs. All DHCs in the 15 provinces
will be eligible for renovation. The proposed renovation includes out-patient area for the
provision of family planning, maternal and related reproductive health services; in-patient
area for the provision of family planning, maternal and related reproductive health
services; operation theater for obstetric and surgical services; central sterile supplies



- 92 -                          Annex 5
department; and storage facilities for drugs and equipment. The total number of DHCs
which will be renovated under the project is 184.
Furniture, Medical Equipment, Essential Drugs and Medical Supplies
7           All DHCs in the 15 project provinces (184) would receive a package of
furniture, medical/surgical/obstetric equipment and essential drugs and medical supplies
which would support the family planning and family health service delivery functions of
the health center. The actual quantities would be based on the results of the infrastructure
survey of existing furniture, equipment and drugs in the DHCs. This would be further
fine-tuned at the provincial level, based on any changes (supplies from Government or
other donors) that may occur in the interim period. The package of inputs would also
include equipment and drugs and medical supplies that would be invested in the district
mobile units which provide technical and managerial supervision for the CHCs.
Provincial Level
8.          Though the provincial level is a higher level facility which is not directly
involved in the delivery of FP/MCWprimary health services, the project has included
inputs for the 15 provincial MCH/FP centers. This is because of the important role that
MCH/FP centers play in providing training support for MCH/FP activities. Also, many of
these provincial MCH/FP centers support the technical activities of the DHCs by sending
provincial mobile units on a periodic basis to the district level. Given these important
functions of the MCH/FP centers in supporting grassroots and first-referral MCH/FP
activities, it was deemed necessary to provide a package of inputs to the MCH/FP centers
which would complement the inputs at the district and commune levels.
9.           The civil works, fumiture, equipment and drugs and medical supplies that
is to be provided at the MCH/FP centers are quite similar to the inputs at the district level.
These inputs would ensure adequate capacity at the MCH/FP centers to discharge its
functions as a training and supervisory support unit for the lower level facilities.



- 93 -                               Annex 5
List of Furniture and Medical Equipment for District Health
Center and MCH/FP Center
Serial Number            Items
1                       2.5 KVA generating set
2                       Ambulance
3                       Anesthesia apparatus portable
4                       Bed labor and delivery
5                       Carriage dressing with pail and basin
6                       Centrifuge angle head 220V
7                       Centrifuge micro hematocrit 24 tubes
8                       Cesarotomy and hysterectomy inst. set (20 items)
9                       Cupboard (
10                       D&C and aspiration kit
11                       Drum sterilizing 340mm diameter
12                       Electric water bath
13                       Electro-cardiograph, 1 channel and paper
14                       Gynecological examination table
15                       Haemoglobinometer Sahli Set
16                      Incubator oven lab. 400x400x330mm
17                      IUD kit
18                      IUD removal forceps
19                       Karman syringe single valve
20                       Karmann syinges double valve
21                       Light examining floor stand type
22                       Light operating emergency mobile
23                       Ophthalmoscope basic for clinic use
24                       Oxygen bag
25                       Oxygen cylinder 40 liter - 150amt
26                       Oxygen flowmeter
27                       Pump aspirating surgical-220V
28                       Resuscitator -hand operated
29                       Scale infant clinic metric
30                       Scale physician adult metric
31                       Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300mm with cuff
32                       Sterilizer boiling type 600x400x400mm
33                       Sterilizer dressing pressure electric
34                       Sterilizer for syringe/needle-boiling, 220V
35                       Sterilizer instrument boiling 450x160x25
36                       Still water 20 liter/hour electric



- 94 -                            Annex 5
Serial Number          Items
37                     Stool revolving adjustable height enamel
38                     Stretcher combination wheel
39                     Support stand labor, with 4 rings
40                     Syringe rectal infant rubber bulb hard tip 30 ml
41                     Table examining folding
42                     Table instrument on wheels
43                     Table operating universal frame type
44                     Table-Instrument adjustable Mayo type with t
45                     Thermovanocautery + electrodes for gynecology
46                     Tracheotomy set complete
47                     Tray instrument covered 3 1Ox 195x63
48                     Tray instrument shallow 480x330xl9mm
49                     Tubectomy kit
50                     Ultra violet Alpen sun-lamp
51                     Ultra violet lamp for sterilization
j 52                    Vasectomy kit (non-scalpel)
List of Essential Drugs and Medical Supplies at the District and Provincial levels
Serial Number.         Items
1                      Amoxycillin 250mg Tab
2                      Ampicillin 500mg inj. box of 25 V
3                      Atropine Sulphate 0.25mg Amp
4                      Bandage gauze non-sterile roll
5                      Benzyl Benzoate Emulsion 25% 1 lit
6                      Benzyl Penicillin 0.6g/Vial
7                      Chloramphenicol 250mg Caps
8                      Chlorpheniramine Maleate 4mg Tab
9                      Co-trimoxazole (400 + 80) Tab
10                     Cotton non-sterile lOOgm
11                     Diazepam 5mg Tab
12                     Dolargan 5% 2ml Amp
13                     Erythromycin 250mg Cap
14                     Ferrous Sulphate and Folate Tab
15                     First aid dressing
16                     Gentamycin 80mg 2ml A



- 95 -                             Annex 5
Serial Number           Items
17                      Hypothiazide 40mg Tab
18                     Iodine Solution 30ml Bottle 2.5%
19                      Lidocaine injection 1% 50 ml Via
20                      Magnesium Trisilicate Tab
21                      Mebendazole 100mg Tab
22                      Methyl Ergometrine 0.125mg Tab
23                      Metronidazole 250mg Tab
24                      Neomycin + Bacitracin oint. 20g/
25                      Nystatin pessary 100,0001U
26                      Oxytocin 51U
27                      Pantathenol Tube
28                      Papaverine 100mg Amp
29                      Paracetamol 100mg Tab
30                      Penicillin V 250mg Tab
31                      Prostigmine 5mg/ml Amp
32                      Tetracycline eye oint. 1% 5g/Tube
33                      Xylocaine injection 1% 50ml Bottle
Implementation Of Civil Works
Pre-Contract Stage
10.           The implementation of the works was discussed with the MOH Deparment
of Medical Equipment and Construction (DMEC) and officials at the Provincial
Department of Construction (DOC).  The pre-contract procedures are confirmed as
follows:
(a)    (a)    NCPFP/PMU  will be responsible for initiating, monitoring and
ensuring correct implementation procedures at each stage. The PMU
issues guidelines, bid instructions and the model drawings to the Provincial
PMU, who must then implement the civil works accordingly.
(b)    (b)    The Provincial PMU selects local consultants, using procedures
acceptable to the World Bank and they in turn do their own detailed
survey/inspection of the existing facilities and prepare design proposals,
based on the PMU models, for NCPFP/PMU approval on receipt of which:



- 96 -                          Annex 5
(i)    A Provincial Bidding Commnittee is formed, representing the PMU,
MOH DOC, MOF, and specialists necessary with the Chairman from
the PCPFP service;
(ii)   The Provincial PMU initiates the preparation of the bidding documents,
to include - working drawings, bills of quantities, specifications and
contract requirements which must again be approved by NCPFP/PMU.
(iii)   Tenders/bids are then invited by public advertisements in National
newspapers and television in accordance with WB guidelines
Contract Packages
11.          Contractors are registered in Viet Nam according to their resources and
ability. Accordingly, facility proposals will be combined into contract packages by
District, to encourage the larger contractors to compete. This is usually more cost
effective and quicker in construction.
(a)   Contractors are to be post qualified. For bid invitation and documents are
issued on payment of a deposit. An adequate tender period must be allowed to
ensure fair and open tendering.
(b)   On their return, the bids are examined and the lowest evaluated and responsive
bid is recommended. The results are submitted to the NCPFP/PMU for approval
(World Bank approval is necessary above a threshold of US$200,000) and on receipt,
the contract is awarded.
(c)   The Contract is signed between the PCPFP/PM`U (side A) and the successful
contractor (side B)
Contract Supervision
12.          Contract Supervision is the responsibility of the Provincial Engineer, DOC
whose representative visits the site daily to ensure proper progress, implementation and
material tests to specification and reports monthly to the PMU Contruction Manager. The
consultant, who prepared the designs and bidding documents also visits the site regularly
to ensure compliance with the design. The provincial PMU monitors the work and reports
to the NCPFP/PMU. A weekly report signed jointly by the DOC supervisor and the
contractor is sent to the Provincial PMU who will normally report monthly to the
NCPFP/PMU:



- 97 -                           Annex 5
(a)   stage payments are agreed e.g. on completion of Foundations, walls, roof, etc
and
(b)   when a stage is reached and a payment is due:
(i)    A meeting is arranged to confirm and certify payment at which the
following are represented - Side A, User, DOC, Supervisor and
Contractor;
(ii)    On completion of the works, the Committee meets to certify
satisfactory completion and works are handed over to the User;
(iii)   A Maintenance period of 12 months is included in the Contract Articles
during which a retention is held pending successful contract
completion. For this project, the recommended retention rate is 5%.
Project Monitoring
13.          In order to fulfil its role of monitoring the civil works component, the
NCPFP/PMU will require a Construction Manager with a staff of three - an architect and
two construction engineers, one of which should have specific experience in construction
valuation. In addition, one architect/construction engineer should be employed at the
Provincial PMU to assist the supervision at District level.. These staff can be employed on
contract for the duration of the civil works implementation.
Civil Works Documentation
14.          Incomplete filing and records can considerably delay reimbursements
during implementation so the mission wishes to stress that all procurement of consultants,
contractors and materials should be clearly demonstrated to be open, fair and in full
compliance with World Bank Guidelines. Accordingly, files must be up to date and
complete with all letters, meeting minutes, records and approvals to be typed, authorised,
dated, stamped where necessary and signed. A copy of the following procurement
documentation, etc. should be available on file for reimbursement clearance and particular
attention is drawn to the correct sequence of NCPFP/PMU approvals necessary
Consultancy Services
Invitation to Bid
(newspaper page showing advertisement and date)



- 98 -                          Annex 5
Evaluation sheets of shortlisted consultants
Abstract of Technical proposals
Resolution to award  ... NCPFP/PMU no objction
Notice of award
Company profile of successful consultant
Contract agreement
Notice to proceed
Consultant's Documents
Site (building) survey
Sketch proposals .    NCPFP/PMU no objection
Working drawings (arch/struc/mech/elec)
Specifications
Bill of materials and cost estimates
Structural computation
Bidding documents  . . NCPFP/PMU no objection
Construction Procurement
Invitation to prequalify
(newspaper page showing advertisement and date)
Abstract of bids
Company profile
Resolution to awards   NCPFP/PMU no objection
Notice to award
Performance bond
Contract Agreement
Notice to proceed
Implementation
Inspect and Confirm that sites serve project objectives
Progress Reports (monthly)
Program Review (monthly)
Cost Update (monthly)
Maintenance And Repair Strategy
15.         Buildings are seen in terms of capital cost only, whereas a building has a
lifespan - if unmaintained perhaps 25/30 years - if well maintained perhaps 60/75 years.
The graph in Annex 4 shows maximum theoretical deterioration at minus 70% and when
applied to the building life cycle, the total actual building costs are as follows:
Unmaintained building over two generations (60 yrs) - Initial construction cost + one



- 99 -                          Annex 5
70% replacement i.e. 10 million + 70% 10 million = 17 million - Cost of same building
properly maintained for same period - Initial construction cost + 0.21% pa = 11.5
million. This represents a powerful economic arguernent for the proper preventive
maintenance of building stock.
16.         The maintenance of health/MCH/FP facilities has been the responsibility of
the Provincial People's Committee but in practice there has been no specific budget for
maintenance, so that there has been little upkeep of buildings - preventive maintenance -
for many years, other than emergency short-term repairs when absolutely necessary. A
strategy for preventive maintenance was drawn up during project preparation, including the
appointment of a senior experienced architect/engineer building as a member of the staff of
each Provincial Project Management Unit. This staff member would be responsible for the
program of upkeep and maintenance of all the health facilities, including services (water,
electricity, and siteworks), and would be provided a regular maintenance budget. The annual
budget for maintenance of civil works would be equivalent to one percent of the cumulative
value of investment in civil works under the project, and the annual budget for maintenance of
equipment would be equivalent to two percent of the cumulative value of equipment purchased
under the project. The actual maintenance work would be contracted out.
CLINICAL TRAINING SUB-COMPONENT
17.          Support to clinical training under the proposed Population and Family
Health Project was finalised by the NCPFP, in consultation with the MCHIFP Department
of the Ministry of Health, with additional discussions with the Science and Training
Department of the Ministry of Health, the School of Public Health and the Institute for the
Protection of Mothers and Newborn.
Objectives of the Clinical Training Component
18.         The focus of clinical training will be on the grassroots and local level staff,
ensuring that they have the knowledge and the skills to provide high quality infonnation
and services to potential and actual family planning clients as well as to integrate provision
of family health with family planning services. Upgrading training will be given to clinical
staff to improve their specialized knowledge and implementation capabilities. Training
activities will be monitored, evaluated and updated to ensure their continuing relevance to
programme needs.



- 100 -                          Annex 5
19.          The specific objectives are:
(a)   to improve the quality of FP/family health service delivery and to offer
a wider range of contraceptive choice to clients; and
(b)   t:o improve the effectiveness and efficiency of MCH/FP training
interventions at the field level
20.          7 main areas of support are proposed for clinical training under the
Population and Family Health Project:
1)    Retraining of CHC staff in MCH/FP skills;
2)    Retraining of District-level supervisors of CHC staff,
3)    Competency upgrading in specific FP and reproductive health interventions;
4)    Managernent of training at the provincial level;
5)    Specialist training for doctors in new FP methods;
6)    Regular updates for MCH/FP service leaders;
7)    Special MCH/FP training program for CHC staff in remote and mountainous
areas.
A summary of the training program is given in the following table.
Coordination Between the National Health Support Project and the Population and
Family Health Project
21.       Both the National Health Support Project and the Population and Family
Health Project are intended to include support for the retraining of CHC staff in basic
MCH/FP knowledge and skills within their respective provinces and for the training of
district-level supervisors of CHC services. Common training packages are planned to be
used for this training in the 15 provinces covered by the National Health Support Project
and in the 15 provinces covered by the Population and Family Health Project. The
development costs for the MCH/FP retraining program have been included under the
Population and Family H[ealth Project, whilst those for the Supervisory Training package



Summary Of Clinical Training Activities
Total No.  Year/s                   Courses/ No.     Length
Participants                         Courses    of      Location of      Prov/   Partic's/ of        Source of
Type of Training      From                    Prof.              (7 yrs)     Implem. Training         Year    Course  Training   Trainers
Training of Master    Recruited under the     Spec. Dr. (O/G)     -          0        AVSC/Pathfinder                   9 mths -   Foreign and Local
Trainers
for MCH/FP Retraining  Project                Graduate Nurse/                        UNFP and                           1 Year    Consultants and
_Midwife                                UNICEF sites                                Counterparts
Training of Provincial   Secondary Med. School &  Spec. Dr. (O/G)  6         Yrs. 1-2  2 - North      0        15      4 Weeks  Master Trainers
Core Trainers for     Prov. MCH/FP Centre    Asst. Dr. (O/G)                         2 - South                                    from Central Level
MCH/FP
Retraining                                                                           2 - Central                                  + Local & Foreign
(30 Provinces)                                                                       (or all central)                             Consultants
Training of Prvincial    Secondary Med. School,  Spec. Dr. (O/G)  15         Yr. 2    Provincial       1       20      4 Weeks  Prov. Core MCIH
Training Teams        Prov. MCH/FP Centre &   General Dr.                                                                         FP Trainers
Prov.ObGyn.Dept        Asst. Dr. (O/G)
(15 Provinces)
Basic MCHJFP Refresher Prov. MCH/FP Centre    Spec. Dr. (O/G)     15         Yr. I    Prov'al MCH/FP   1       20      4 Weeks  Prov. MCH/FP            o
Training              ObGyn.Dept/Prov.Hosp.  Asst. Dr. (O/G)                         Centre                                       Trainers
(15 Provinces)        Secondary Med. School   Secondary Midwife
District MCH/FP Depts.  Spec. Dr. (O/G)    45         Yr. I    Prov'al MCH/FP   3        18-20   4 Weeks  Prov. MCH/FP
Asst. Dr. (O/G)                        Centre                                       Trainers
Secondary Midwife
Commune Health Centre  Asst. Dr. (O/G)     300        Yrs      Prov'al MCH/FP   5       20-21   4 Weeks  Prov. MCH/FP
(1)                    Asst. Dr. (Gen)                2 -6     Centres and                                 Trainers
Secondary Midwife                      Secondary Med.
Secondary Nurse (1)                    Schools
Primary Midwife (1)
_Primary Nurse (1)                                                                                         x



Total No.    Year/s                  Courses/ No.     Length
Participants                         Courses      of      Location of     Prov/   Partic's/ of       Source of
Type of Training     From                    Prof.              (7 yrs)       Implem. Training        Year    Course   Training  Trainers
Training of Trainers for School of P.H.      Asst. Dr. (O/G)     I            1       Hanoi                   12       1 week   Foreign & Local
course on Supervision  I.P.M.N.              Asst. Dr. (Gen)                                                                     Consultants
of
CHC services         Medical School          Secondary Midwife
Other
Supervision of CHC    DHCs                   Spec. Dr. (O/G)     48           Yrs.    3 national sites:  (12 at   16-18    2 weeks   12 Trainers drawn
Services                                     Asst. Dr. (O/G)                  2 -5    - Sch of P.H.    Central                   from the School of
Secondary Midwife                       - I.P.M.N.      Sites)                     P.H., the Med.Sch,
- Other                                    MOH/FP Dept of
MOH, & other
selected officers +
Local & Foreign
Consultants
Clinical IUDIMR Skills Commune Health Centre   Spec. Dr. (O/G)   360          Yrs.   Prov'al MCH/FP  6        5-6       1 week    Prov. MCH/FP
District MCHIFP Depts.   Asst. Dr. (O/G)                 3-6     Centre                                     Trainers
C)
Secondary Midwife                       Prov. ObGyn                                 Trained staff of
Secondary Nurse (1)                  .  Departments                                Prov.ObGyn Depts.
Management of        Prov. Health Bureau     Officers responsible  3          Yr. 2   Secondary Med.          20       2 weeks  Local & Foreign
Retraining
Secondary Medical Sch.   for retraining                          School, or                                 Consultants
PCPFP                                                            Prov'al MCHIFP
Centre
Norplant             Provincial Hospitals    Spec. Dr. (O/G) +    45          Yrs.   I.P.M.N. +               5         1 week    Spec. ObGyn Drs.
Insertion/Removal
District Hospitals      other professionals              3-7    other sites                                 previously trained
MCH/FP Centres          authorized by MOH                        authorized by                              in Norplant.
policy to provide                       MOH.
Norplant services.                                                                                       x



Total No. Year/s                   Courses/ No.    Length
Participants                        Courses   of        Location of    Prov/   Partic's/ of     Source of
Type of Training      From                   Prof.              (7 yrs)    Implem. Training         Year    Course Training Trainers
Training of Trainers for DHCs in the remote/  Doctors            4         2        Regional        n.a.     15     1 week  Local & Foreign
the
Special Training of   mountainous districts  Asst. Doctors                                                                  Consultants
Minority
Health Workers                               Nurses
Midwives
Basic Training of newly- Communes in the 15  None                750       3-7      DHCs            n.a.    n.a.    1 mth. x DHC minority
recruited Pop.& FH    Project Provinces in                       (existing                                          3 times  trainers
workers
from minority groups   remote & mountainous                      + newly
from
remote & mountainous  areas.                                     trained)
areas
x
LI)



- 104 -                         Annex 5
will be covered by the National Health Support Project. In addition, the Population and
Family Health Project will also provide support for retraining provincial staff in MCH/FP
in all 30 provinces.
Special MCH/FP training programs for CHC Staff in remote and mountainous areas:
22.         There iis a severe shortage of health staff working in the remote
mountainous areas of the country.  In these areas, a significant proportion of the
population are from minority groups with low levels of basic education. These low levels
preclude candidates from the minority groups from qualifying for entry to the Secondary
Medical Schools for formal health training. CHCs in these areas, if staffed at all, may have
a staff member seconded from the DHC, often not from the region at all and not
conversant with the local language. To improve basic health services in these areas, there is
the need both to develop a strategy for increasing the number of health workers drawn from
the minority groups, as well as to upgrade the skills of those staff already in service. Details are
given in Annex 15.



-105-                             Annex 6
OUTLINE OF  4lc STRATEGY AND INPUTS UNDER THE PROJECT
A.    Goal
I .         The goal of IEC is to support the program's service delivery and to create
long term demand for population and family health services. While social and cultural
conditions may require many issues to be addressed, IEC will remain focused on a limited
set of priority objectives based on the requirements of service delivery.
B.    Objectives
2.           By the end of the project period, the IEC component will seek to achieve
the following major objectives for the project (secondary objectives are not included here
and may differ from province to province):
In plains/'delta areas, 90 percent of eligible couples should:
(i)   know about at least 3 modem contraceptive methods (from among
ills, IUDs, injectibles, implants, condoms and sterilization);
(ii)  be favorably inclined toward using a modem method; and
(iii)  should have tried at least one modem method.
In other areas, this proportion should be at least 60 percent.
3.          In plains/delta areas, 90 percent of women of reproductive age should
know how to prevent and recognize reproductive tract infections (RTI) and, should the
need arise, know where to seek treatment. In other areas this proportion should be at
least 60 percent.
4.          In plains/deltas areas, 90 percent of pregnant women should know the
benefits of obtaining antenatal care, should have sought such care at least twice during
their pregnancy, and should be aware of the steps to be taken in case of an obstetric
emergency.
5.          There will also be some secondary objectives for the IEC component.
These are secondary because changes being sought will take place over a long period of
time or because other agencies are playing the lead role.  Such objectives include
promoting the small family norm among youth in secondary and vocational school
systems, educating the young about safe sex supporting the promotion of immunization
and good nutritional practices, as well as other MCH activities.



- 106 -                                      Annex 6
C.      Strategy
6.               The development of IEC strategy is based on defining target groups relevant for each
objective, determination of wvhat has to be communicated to each group, development of messages and the
choice of media to deliver the messages to the groups being targeted. Target group definition will rely on
KAPB survey (including media habits) to be conducted at the start of the project and a multimedia
strategy will be chosen on the basis of media data obtained from the survey. Pending such data, key
elements of the IEC strategy under the project are presented in the matrix below.
7.              Description of institutional capacity strengthening required for effective implementation
is described in a later section.
Objective        Target groiup                    Messages                  Media
Family          Married women, 20-24      a. "Settle down" before you have  TV, radio, billboards, wall-
Planning         (no children) and their    a child                         signs, brochures, inter-
husbands                 b. Use the pill; it's convenient  personal channels (IPC)
(separate messages for men)
Married women, 20-29     a. Nurture your first child; let the  Same media as for 20-24
(one child) and husbands   second wait a few years
b. Your health requires spacing
c. Use the pill, or an IUD
Married women, 25-29     a. Two is enough                  Same media as for 20-24
(two children) and       b. If younger child is <5, IUD or inj.
husbands                 c. If younger child is >5, sterilize or
implant
Rep.Tr.Infec.    Women, all ages          Messages and media for RTI to be decided after completion of
(RTI)                                     survey
Maternal        Pregnant women            a. If you are expecting a child, you    Radio, brochures, IPC
health                                      need to start caring from now
b. Once in the first three months and
once in the last three, you must get
yourself checked by ..... at ...at.
c. If, while carrying your child, you
experience...., it could be a warning;
see . immediately
d. If you think you are in an    Inserts with pills and IUDs,
emergency, you must do the     IPC
following:.
Population       Formal / informal leaders  a. Propagate small family norm  Radio, press
issues           Teachers I vocational    b. Reduce gender bias            Printed pamphlets
All areas        Service providers        Messages based on campaigns      Private media - letters,
CPFP staff              in progress, aimed at focusing     group meetings
effort, technical updating, raising
motivation and reminding on key
message content



- 107 -                            Annex 6
D.    Implementatioin: Message and Materials Development
8.           The matrix presents only the broad features of the IEC  strategy.
Implementation programs will need to be drawn up for each objective-target group-
message combination that sharpens the features for greater impact. For example, in
targeting women with one child, women who are breast feeding the child would be
addressed differently compared to women who have stopped breast feeding. To the
former, the message concerning pills would advocate the progestogen-only pill, while to
the latter the low-dose combined pill would be promoted. Again, messages for women in
minority groups would be different, as also for women who are in remote areas and
therefore less likely to be literate. In some urban areas such as Ho Chi Minh city, there
may be local campaigns to alert teenagers about the need for safe sex.
9.           The next step would be to create and produce the materials. This requires
answering questions about what the target groups know, think and feel about the topic
(KAPB data is useful here for segmentation, plus informal observation or small qualitative
studies to really understand why people are holding the beliefs or practising the behavior
that KAPB is showing), what symbols, language, phrases and other culture-related
elements can be used in communication to establish closer links with the target group, and
what opportunities or limitations are imposed by the media that will be carrying the
message.
E.    Implementation: Field Activities
10.          IEC activities in the field -- at the grass roots level -- are vital. Large
sections of the population are not reached by mass media. Even when they are, grass-
roots activities generate some excitement and stimulate discussion of the topic which has
already been seen or heard on TV or radio. The impersonal nature of mass media,
therefore, is replaced by a local, topical event and word-of-mouth channels.
I1.          This component provides for field activities through collaborators' home
visits, wall paintings in communes, traditional drama for remote areas and special events
tied in with local radio and TV. For example, as part of a "campaign approach" a district
may ask all collaborators to launch an awareness drive for pills during a 6-week period,
follow this by having wall signs painted in communes over the following four weeks and
climax the campaign by having the district mobile teams carry a rented TV and video
cassette player to show films and spots on pills.
12.          An important requirement for this approach is that there should be close
coordination between national IEC planning and provincial / district field activities. This
will require an annual IEC plan which describes the combination of messages, target



- 108 -                               Annex 6
groups and media on which attention will be focused in specific parts of the country
during specific periods of the year.
13.           To enable close coordination between national, provincial and district
levels, the  project supports  training  and  planning  meetings.    Supervisory  and
implementation capability in the field is also enhanced by the project providing for
mobility, rental of TVs and VCRs, painting of wall signs, folk theater for remote areas and
special IEC events.
F.    Implementation: Contracted Assistance
14.           External technical assistance would be contracted for the following aspects
of implementation:
a. training national and provincial staff:  international experts coming in the early
stages;
b. material development and production:    local IEC / advertising agency with
international affiliation being retained from
the public or private sector in Vietnam on an
annual contract;
c. special field events and activities:    folk drama groups, field promotion agencies
from the provinces.
15.           While provision has been made for short term overseas training for lIEC
staff, it is essential that training take place within the country as much as possible. There
are two reasons for this: first, the quality of training will benefit from trainers being
exposed to the realities of the country and second, a much larger number will be trained
and a sizable core group of IEC staff can be formed. This training is scheduled in the early
stages of the project so that benefits can flow during the project period.
16.           Assistance for material development and production will be provided by
contracting an agency from the public or private sector. Capacity for this purpose has
increased dramatically in the country in the last two years and is rapidly moving toward
high standards because of several partnerships that have been signed between Vietnamese
companies and international advertising agencies. The vital role that such an agency can
play is in increasing the impact of the materials by making them more interesting and
relevant to the target group. For the sake of continuity in thinking and accumulation of
experience, it would be desirable to contract an agency for an initial period of two years
and then renew based on performance.



- 109 -                             Annex 6
17.          Groups specializing in rural media will be contracted for field campaigns.
For example, if wall signs have to be painted in 5 districts in a province, it would be easier
to contract the Youth Union in that province, send them a design created by the private
sector agency contracted at the national level and let them paint it with modifications for
local relevance.
G.    EEC Training
18.          Training of IEC under the project will have two objectives. First, the capacity
to manage the component at the national level will be enhanced. Second, implementation
capacity will be strengthened at the provincial, district and commune levels. The underlying
premise to the training strategy is that, except at the commune level, IEC staff should be able to
develop and execute IEC plans and strategies to obtain end results, and that the conduct of EEC
activities should be left to commune level workers (such as through interpersonal
communication) or to specialists (such as for material development and production).
19.   EEC management capacity at the national level will be enhanced through inputs along
three channels:
(a)   contracting of international IEC experts to work with IEC  Department
managers in a "hands-on" relationship to develop and implement the JEC
strategy, as well as to develop the curriculum and materials for provincial,
district and commune level training (based on the training needs assessment).
Six man-months of such assistance has been provided during the first three
years of the project;
(b)    contracting of an IEC / advertising agency from the public or private sector in
Viet Nam to assist with materials development and production on a long-term
basis (initial contract of two years, subject to renewal based on performance);
(c)    short-term overseas training for selected national and provincial staff expected
to contribute to future capacity. Provision has been made for twelve persons
to obtain such training in the third and fourth years of the project.
20.   Training of provincial IEC staff will take place in the second year of the project. By
that time a core level of knowledge and skills will have been established at the national level by
the international experts and the first group of overseas trained staff having retumed. It is
envisaged that this training of provincial staff be carried out in two weeks by the Department's
national managers with the international experts being present as observers and resource
persons. It is important that the scheduling be timed in this manner because this is the last year
of intemational assistance provided by the project for this purpose.



- 110 -                             Annex 6
21.          District and commune staff will be trained in the second and third years. It is
expected that one persont from each district will be trained by the provincial IEC staff with
national support by way of curriculum, materials and instructors, if necessary. Each group of
10 district staff will be trained at the provincial headquarters over a two week period. This
period will also be utilized to conduct a field campaign near the provincial town so that
classroom discussions can reflect on practical experience shared by the group.
22           Commune level staff training will have a strong applications bias. Provincial
IEC and Training staff will conduct a 7-day program for groups of 20 workers and complete
the province's IEC training of 200 workers during 10 weeks spread over the second half of the
third year.
23.          Refresher training of provincial and district staff is planned in the sixth year, the
duration being 7 days for each group. Collaborator training has been described in a separate
section.
H.    Social Marketing
24.           Social marketing is based on the principle that concepts and techniques
normally used for selling commercial products can also be applied to promote socially desirable
goods and services. Typically, the target for socially marketed products are the poorer sections
of society and, therefore, the price set for such products is based on subsidy rather than full
cost or market value.
25.          Although social marketing in Viet Nam has been introduced recently, it has
demonstrated that the promotion of branded contraceptives in an aggressive commercial
manner is capable of delivering impressive results. This component aims to accelerate social
marketing activity in the following ways:
encouraging the promotion of pills, particularly to lower income urban women;
*     encouraging the availability of pills at pharmacies; and
*     encouraging the promotion of pills in rural area
26.          According to the 1994 ICDS, approximately 2 percent of married women in
the country currently use the pill. Given this low base of users, as a first step it is proposed that
women in urban areas be targeted for increased pill usage. Specifically, under the project the
following expansion strategy will be initiated:



- 111 -                            Annex 6
(a)    Bids will be invited from  social marketing agencies with demonstrated
experience to launch a new brand of low priced pills (VND 500 per cycle) in
five cities: Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Hai Phong, and Hue.
(b)   Pills will be supplied at no cost and the social marketing agency will be
expected to provide the brand name, packaging, distribution to pharmacies and
advertising and promotion support. The agency will be given complete
autonomy to make decisions on strategy and implementation within agreed
budgets.
(c)    The agency will also be expected to recruit, train and deploy promoters (they
must be women) to slums and low income areas in these five cities with the
task of oonverting non-users of modem methods to the pill, where conversion
will be defined as the user's agreeing to visit a doctor, obtain a prescription and
start purchasing pills from the nearest pharmacy (when regulations permit, pills
can be delivered to the users home by the agency's delivery system).
(d)   Promoters will be paid a fixed monthly salary and allowance based on
continued usage by the clients they have converted. This allowance will be
structured so that it will be possible for the promoter to earn an additional 50
percent of salary per month with reasonable effort.
(e)    The social marketing agency will be reimbursed for all packaging, distribution,
promotion and advertising costs after adjusting for the revenue earned from
sales of pill. In addition, a service fee will be paid to the agency to cover part
of its administrative costs.
(f)    The arrangement will be subject to regular monitoring by Project Management
of the accuracy and profile of client data provided by the promoters.
(g)   The initial contract will be for two years and will be renewed subject to
performance; alternatively, new bids will be invited after two years.
(h)    Annual expenses for this sub component would include:
Recruitment and training, 20 promoters
Pharmacists' orientation
Salary, 20 promoters
Allowance, 20 promoters at 50 percent of salary
Delivery costs,
Packaging, advertising, pharmacy promotion



- 112 -                              Annex 6
Supervision fee for administration
Monitoring by Project Management
(i)    The terms of reference and the selection of the social marketing agency will be
decided vvith the help of the international experts contracted for [EC training.
27.           Since substantial support will be provided for advertising of the socially
marketed brand of pills, an effort will be made to obtain distribution of this brand in pharmacies
located in places other than the 5 cities allotted to the social marketing agency. It is proposed
to secure such distribution in the following way:
(a)    Bids will be invited from  organizations with distribution systems already
delivering products to pharmacies in provincial and district towns (other than
the 5 being covered by the social marketing agency). It is expected that during
1996-97 the number of such organizations will increase considerably.
(b)    The bid will require the organization to deliver pills to pharmacies on a regular
basis with proper attention to stock handling and shelf life, train pharmacists in
the dispensing of this product, conduct promotional activities aimed at
motivating pharmacists as may be planned from time to time and provide
regular reports on the sales through each outlet.
(c)    The project will provide pills to the organization at a price such that normal
commissions are eamed by the distributors without the price to the final
consumer exceeding VDG 500 per cycle. Since sales of pills in small towns are
likely to be small, a service fee may have to be provided to attract organizations
to this proposal. In addition, for supporting the national family planning
program, the organization can be given non-financial reward by way of public
recognition.



-113-                        Annex7
PROJ1ECTIONS OF CONTRACEPTIVE USE AND COSTS
Part L. Calculation of National Contraceptive Commodity Requirements 1997-2002
1.          This annex describes the underlying assumptions that have been utilized to
calculate the needed quantities of contraceptive supplies for the years 1997-2002. The
calculations were based on contraceptive prevalence and method mix projections that
conform to NCPFP goals for the year 2002. Specific details follow.
2.           Assumed Prices.
(a)   Contraceptive pills: US$0.30 per cycle. Annual number of cycles required
per woman= 13.
(b)    Multiload IUDs from China: US$0.75 per unit. Assumed life of RJD: 4.0
years.
(c)   Norplant: US$25.00 per unit. Assumed life of Norplant: 4.5 years.
(d)   Injectables: US$1.00 per dose. Four doses per user per year. (Purchase
4.5 doses per woman).
3.           CMW  of Reproductive Age. An estimate of the number of currently
married women of reproductive age (15-49) was provided for 1989 by the census of Viet
Nam. The size of the CMW population was projected annually to year 2002 through
assumption of a declining growth rate. The annual growth rate (1989-1990) was assumed
to be 2.6%, falling to 2.0% in 2001-2002.
4.           Contraceptive Prevalence Rate. Minimal change in the contraceptive
prevalence rate (CPR) is projected between 1994 and 2002, but the importance of modern
methods relative to traditional ones is projected to increase substantially. The CPR will
only increase from 65.0%/o to 66.0% whereas the CPR for modern methods will increase
from 43.8% to 56.1%. Only a minimal reduction in non-users is assumed (from 35.0% to
34%).
5.           Overall Method Mix. Based on the 1994 Inter-Censal Demographic
Survey, of current users of family planning, 58% use long-term methods (IUD, female and
male sterilization, and Norplant), 10% use short-term methods (pills, condoms, injectables,
diaphragm/foam/ jelly), while 30% use typically less-effective traditional methods (periodic
abstinence, withdrawal, and others). The method mix is projected to alter such that the
mix in 2002 will be 60)% long-term, 25% short-term, and 15% traditional. This is
consistent with an increase in the CPR for modern methods from 43.8% to 56.1% over the
same time period.



-114-                              Annex 7
6.              Long-Term  Methods. IUDs will continue to be the most prevalent form
of long-term family planning in Viet Nam, but their share among long-term methods will
decline slightly, from 89% in 1994 to 86% in 2002. New multiload IUDs will be supplied
to an estimated 20%  of IUD users. The proportion of long-term users with Norplant will
increase from  0%  to 2%  between 1994 to 2002. Full costs are assumed in the costing
tables. Female and male sterilization is projected to increase slightly, from 11% to 12% of
current users of long-term family planning services. The project will not incur additional
costs as a result of this change.
7.             Short-Term  Methods. Condom-use is currently the most prevalent form
of short-term method use in Viet Nam with 63% of the short-term users, following by
birth-control pills (33%), injectables (3%), and diaphragm/injectables (1%).  Increased
reliance on injectables and pills is assumed such that the method mix in 2002 will be: birth
control pills (36%), injectables (24%), condoms (39%), and diaphragm (1%). The project
will finance both injectalbles and oral contraceptives; condoms and diaphragms will not be
supplied.
8.             Detailed analysis for each of the methods is provided in the following tables
Contraceptive Requirements And Pricing
PART ][L UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS TO CALCULATE
CONTRACEPTIVE NEEDS AND PRICING.
Table A.7.1: Annual Projection Of Currently Married Women (CMW) Aged 15-49, By year And
Assumed Growth Rate
Annual growth rate
Year                    Nwmber ofCMW aged 1549                  ofCMW
1989 (Census Year)                  9,789,549
1990                           10,044,077                        0.0260
1991                          10,300,201                         0.0255
1992                           10,557,706                        0.0250
1993                           10,816,370                        0.0245
1994                           11,075,963                        0.0240
1995                           11,336,248                        0.0235
1996                          11,596,982                         0.0230
1997                           11,857,914                        0.0225
1998                           12,118,788                        0.0220
1999                          12,379,342                         0.0215
2000                           12,639,308                        0.0210
2001                           12,898,414                        0.0205
2002                           13,156,382                        0.0200



- 115 -                          Annex 7
Table A.7.2: Projected Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) and Method Mii, 1994 to 2002
Modern        Traditional
Year           Total            CPR           Methods         Methods        Non-Users
1994            100            64.97           43.77           21.20           35.03
1995            100            65.10           45.29           19.81           34.90
1996            100            65.23           46.82           18.41           34.77
1997            100            65.36           48.35           17.01           34.64
1998            100            65.49           49.89           15.60           34.51
1999            100            65.62           51.44           14.18           34.38
2000            100            65.75           52.99            12.76          34.25
2001            100            65.89           54.55            11.33           34.11
2002            100  _         66.02           56.11            9.90            33.98
Table A.7.3: Projected Change in Method Mix among Contraceptive Users, 1994 to 2002
Long-Term          Short-Term         Traditional
Year                     Total             Methods            Methods            Methods
1994               ]100              58                   10                 33
1995               100               58                   11                 30
1996              100               58                   13                 28
1997               100               59                   15                 26
1998               100               59                   17                 24
1999               100               59                   19                 22
2000                100              59                   21                  1
2001                100              60                   23                  17
2002                100              60                   25                  15
Note: Total may not equal 100 due to rounding
Table A.7.4: Assumed Method Mix of IUD, Sterilization, and Norplant among Long-Term
Contraceptive Users, 1994 to 2002
Year               Total              IUD             Sterilization        Norplant
1994               100                 89                 11                 0.0
1995               100                 89                 1 1                0.3
1996               100                 88                 11                 0.5
1997               100                 88                 11                 0.8
1998               100                 88                 1 1                1.0
1999               100                 87                 12                 1.3
2000                100                87                 12                 1.5
2001        ______ 100                 86                  12                1.8
2002                1090               86                 12                 2.0
Note: Total may not equal 100 due to rounding



- 116 -                           Annex 7
Table A.7.5: Projected Method Mix of Oral Pills, Condoms, Injectables, and Other Methods Among
Short-Term Contraceptive Users, 1994-2002
Female Barrier
Year         Total       Oral Pills      Condoms      Injectables    Diaphragm
1994         100            33              63            3              1
1995         100            33             60             6              1
1996         100            33             57             8              1
1997         100            34             54             11             1
1998         100            34             51             13             i
1999         100            35             48             16             1
2000         100            35              45            19             1
2001         100            36              42            21             1
2002          100           36              39            24              1
Note: Total may not equal 100 due to rounding
Table A.7.6: Assumed Unit Prices of Contraceptives
Contraceptive               Price in             Number of Units Required
US$ per
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  U nit
Oral Contraceptives per cycle)        $0.30              13 cycles per woman per year
Multiload IUDs (per unit); from China  0.75              1.2 units/woman (for 4 years)
Copper-t IUDs (per unit)               0.75              1.2 units/woman (for 4 years)
Norplant (per unit)                   25.00              1.2 units/woman (for 4 years)
Injectables (per dose)                 1.00              4.5 doses per woman per year
Table A.7.7: Total Distribution of Contraceptive Users by Method, 1994 to 2002
Year     Total     ID      Steriliza-  Norplant  Pills   Condoms  Injec-   Female  Trad-
tion                                  tables   Barrier  itional
1994     100      51.5     6.4       0.0       3.1      6.0       0.3      0.1      32.6
1995     100      51.5     6.5       0.1       3.8      6.9       0.6      0.1      30.4
1996     100      51.5     6.6       0.3       4.5      7.6       1.1      0.2      28.2
1997     100      51.5     6.7       0.4       5.2      8.3       1.7      0.2      26.0
1998     100      51.6     6.8       0.6       5.9      8.8       2.3      0.2      23.8
1999     100      51.6     6.9       0.7       6.7      9.2       3.1      0.2      21.6
2000     100      51.6     7.0       0.9       7.4      9.5        4.0     0.3      19.4
2001     100      51.6     7.1       1.0       8.2      9.6        4.9     0.3      17.2
2002     100      51.6     7.2       1 .2      9.0      9.7        6.0     0.3      15.0



Table A.7.8: Total Number Of Project Users Of Contraceptives, 1994-2002
Stenili-                                              Injcct-       Female Barrier   Traditional
Year      Total         IJD           zation      Norplant      Pills        Condoms        ables         Diaphragm        Methods
1994     7,196,053    3,704,812     457,535                    223,519      433,068          20,418         8,597          2,348,104
1995     7,379,89L     3,801,053    476,814        10,721       279,356      508,475         47,417         10,602         2,245,453
1996     7,564,727     3,897,735    496,589       22,082        338,977      578,234         83,434         12,697         2,134,980
1997     7,750,404     3,994,765    516,854       34,093        402,487     641,700          129,044        14,880         2,016,580
1998     7,936,754     4,092,047    537,607       46,764        469,985     698,218          184,824        17,154         1,890,156
1999     8,123,609     4,189,483    558,840       60,105        541,566     747,121         251,350         19,517         1,755,627
2000     8,310,794     4.286.969    580j547        7a, 25       6:7,3        787,738         329, 196       21,970         1,612,927
2001     8,49[,127     4,384,404    602,720        88,829       697,336      819,392         418,933        24,512         1,462,00
2002     8,685,426     4,481,680  1  625,351      104,225       781,688      841,401         521,126        27,142         1,302,814
Table A.7. 9: Estimating the Contraceptive Requirements and Pricing of Copper-t and Multiload IUDs
Annual Requirements for lJDI)s                            Annual Cost of lfDs (USS)
# of Copper-T    # of Multi-load
Total #     Total # of IUDs      IUDs for        IUDs for      Units Required    Units Required
Year       of Users          Req.            Renewals        New Users _   (80% of Total)    (20% of Tot.)      Copper-T      Multiload
1994      3,704,812                                                   I _                 _    _                                       11
1995      3,801,053          1,226,93        1,111,443         115,490          1,226,933               0        920,200            0
1996      3,897,735          1,256,33        1,140,316         116,019          1,256,335               0       942,251             0
1997      3,994,765          1,285,75        1,169,321         116,436          1,028,605        257,151         771,454 192,864
1998      4,092,047          1,315,16        1,198,430         116,738          1,052,134         263,034        789,101       197,275
1999      4,189,483          1,344,53        1,227,614         116,922          1,075,629         268,907        806,722       201,680
2000      4,286,969          1,373,82        1,256,845         116,984          1,099,063          274,766       824,297       206,074
2001      4,384,404          1,403,01        1,286,091         116,921           1,122,410         280,602       841,807       210,452
2002      4,481,680          1,432,05        1,315,321         116,731           1,145,642         286,410       859,231       214,808
I______  __________  _____________  _________  __________   I  1977-2002  4,892,,613  1,223,153
1977-2000        3,191,574    
I   I   I   I   II   I  1 79789 1
-                    -                                   -             -                 -                  I            -      =   
Notes: (1) Figures for Renewals assume dat 1/4 of all current IUD users wiD require renewal annualy, (2) al estimates for the number of lUDs required
a r inflated by 200/o to aDow for wastage; (3) costing for multiload IUDs begins only in 1997, the staw of the prqect cycle.



- 118 -                                    Annex 7
Table A.7.10: IEstimating the Contraceptive Requirements and Pricing of Norplant
Number of Norplant Unib
Year        Total # of Users    New Users       Renewal Uscrs     Required                Total Cost (USS)
________________              _______   Annually
1994             0                   0                 0                     0                      $0
1995         10,721             10,721                 0                12,866                 321,644
1996         11,361             11,361                 0                13,633                 340,817
1997         12,011             12,011                 0                14,413                 360,324
1998         12,671             12,671                 0                15,206                 380,140
1999         13,341             13,341             11,691               30,039                 750,966
2000         14,019             14,019             15,026               34,855                 871,368
2001         14,705             14,705             18,531               39,883                 997,072
2002         15 396             15,396             22,207               45,124                1,128,097
I  1997-2002:               $4,487,967
_______________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1997-2000:  S 2,362,799
Table A. 7.11 Estimating the Contraceptive Requirements and Pricing of Oral Contraceptives
Total Number                                        Total Cost of Oral   Cost for New      Coot for Continuing
Year    of Users          Continuing Users       New Users  Contraceptives        Users             Users
1994       223,519            223,519               0              $871,725                 S0           $871,725
1995       279,356            279,356               0              1,089,487                 0           1,089,487
1996       338,977            338,977               0              1,322,010                 0           1,322,010
1997       402,487            338,977           63,510             1,569,698           247,688           1,322,010
1998       469,985            402,487           67,498             1,832,941           263,242           1 ,569,698
1999       541,566            469,985           71,582             2,112,109           279,168           1,832,941
2000       617,322            541,566           75,755             2,407,555           295,446           2,112,109
2001       697,336            617,322           80,014             2,719,610           312,056           2,407,555
2002       781,688            697,336           84,352             3,048,585    !      328,974           2,719,610
1997-2002      S    3,690,497     [S 1,726,575        $ S  11,963,922
.___________  _____    1997-2000   7,922,302          1,085,545    1      6,836,757
Note: "New Users" are evaluated only in project years, 1997-2002
Table AL 7.12 Estmating the Contraceptve Requirements and Pricig of Injectables
Year                                Number of Users                          Total Cost (US$)
1994                                    20,418                                   $91,879
1995                                    47,417                                   213,375
1996                                    83,434                                   375,452
1997                                   129,044                                   580,699
1998                                   184,824                                   831,708
1999                                   251,350                                  1,131,074
2000                                   329,196                                  1,481,382
2001                                   418,933                                  1,885,199
2002                                    521,126                                 2,345,065
1  1994-2002:   $8,255,127
_______ ._________________________________ _ |1994-2000:         $4,024,863



- 119 -                            Annex 8
LOGISTICS ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT COMMODITIES
1.           The Ministry of Health will provide logistics support for the project, and
for the National Health Support Project. This will include support for procurement,
warehousing and distribution of equipment, drugs and contraceptives financed under the
two projects.
2.           Separate support systems will be set up for equipment and for drugs and
contraceptives, since thieir requirements are different. Equipment is a one-time purchase
but needs installation and periodic preventive maintenance, while drugs and contraceptives
must be procured and distributed annually through the life of the projects.
3.           The existing logistics infrastructure will be utilised, since it has adequate
warehousing and manpower and has received inputs from both SIDA and UNFPA for
upgrading the facilities. MOH will use the first year of the two projects for ensuring that
the logistics system is in full working order, since the first consignments of equipment,
drugs and contraceptives will only be delivered in the second year.
4.           The role of MOH will be to develop this service organisation. NCPFP will
be involved at various stages, such as preparing technical specifications, both technical and
financial bid evaluation, and preparing distribution plans for commodities to be financed
under the project. The logistics system will be responsible for making compliance reports
to NCPFP for all support to the project, as input into the project MIS.
5.          The private sector will be involved to the extent feasible in the logistics
support system through a system of sub-contracting. It could play an important
complementary role in port-clearing and forwarding and transportation of commodities
from the central warehouse to provinces and districts.



120                            Annex 9
OUTLINE OF STRATEGY AND INPUTS FOR MIS
AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING UNDER THE PROJECT
Management Information Systems
MIS Goals within the Project
1.          The NCPFP Population and Family Health project is intended to strengthen
the overall management capacity within the Vietnam population and family health area.
This management improvement not only includes increasing the capacity of workers in the
field to better utilize information, but also increasing the range and quality of information
available for management decisions.
2.          The basic: goals of the MIS effort within the project will be to:
(a)   Strengthen managers' capacity for using information for planning,
prioritizing and monitoring population and family health activities through
training and availability of computer resources
(b)   Increase the quality of population and family health indicator data
(c)   Expand the use of information for management to include sources of
information not currently utilized for decisions (i.e training, [EC, service
delivery, etc.)
(d)   Broaden the range of information sources for information gathering and
validation (i.e use of surveys to correct population data)
(e)   Strengthen use of computers for data gathering and analysis at all levels for
decision support.
3.          The activities under the current project will significantly increase the
overall use of computerized information for management. Additionally, by focusing on a
decision support systenm (DSS) model, the project will increase the overall capacity to
effectively utilize informnation at all levels of the PFP/MCH system.
Overview of Population and Family Health MIS Project Activities
4.          The project will address the overall mix of activities necessary to increase
the management capacity of the population and family health system to deliver services,
and to strengthen the planning and prioritization capacity of its managers to better target
the population and family health resources available.



121                                        Annex 9
5.               It is recognized that the needs for information systems for the project goes
beyond the gathering of statistical information, which shows only the output/impact of
project activities. The MIS approach of the project will be to focus on the information
necessary for management of the inputs to the project and the improvement of the use of
information for management decisions.
6.             The activities in the project are directed at strengthening the overall capacity
for management of population and family health activities. Additionally, these activities
will increase the NC:PFP's overall capacity to implement National changes to the
population and family health system.
Project Activities and, Objectives
Activity                                          Objective
Systems Modifications                 "Rationalize" information collection
methods/volume with capacity (i.e appropriateness
of information collection at each level)
Expand collection of information to include District
level planning capacity (i.e. logistics systems, IEC campaign
planning, etc.)
Improve oversight of "contract" service delivery within
the MOH
Include information from additional sources to gather
information on Private Sector FP service delivery, etc
Expand the use of rapid assessment survey usage to
improve the quality of data.
Management Training                   Increase manager's awareness of use of information for
Planning
Increase manager's capability to collect, analyze and supervise
PFP information processes
Change manager's perception of information from "statistical"
to the use of information for decisions
Software Development                  Increase the use of computerized information systems for PFP
policy planing
Increase the use of computers for Provincial planning and
prioritization of activities
Strengthen the capacity of NCPFP to plan and implement national
computer information systems
Information Coordination              Increase the use of information from other sources for planning
and prioritization of PFP activities (i.e. education statistics, MOH
statistics, etc.
Systematize collaboration with other organizations which have PFP
related data (i.e. GSO, NGO's, etc.)



122                             Annex 9
Scope and Phasing of Decision Support Activities
7.           The MIS component of the Project will be a national effort to cover all
Provinces. Given the large number of Provinces, fifty-three, and the variety of training
which is necessary for new management skills, it is not possible to implement the MIS
system all at one time. The Project will phase the introduction of systems and training so
that the overall burden of implementation will be reduced.
8.           Project irnplementation of computer systems will be phased separately from
the management training and introduction of new reporting systems, such as training
information. This separation is feasible since many of the new systems will not be initially
computerized, and because the impact of changing the paper management systems for
planning will be significant from the beginning.
General Methodology for Implementing MIS
9.    The management information systems under the project will cover the range of
systems for processing all population and family health activities in Vietnam. Three major
areas are to be addressecd during the life of the project to support MIS efforts:
(a)   Management Skills training
(b)   Revision of information systems for population and family health
management data
(c)    Computer systems for increased processing/analysis of data
The MIS effort in the project will be implemented by the MIS team directly under the
Minister, NCPFP, in coordination with the Project Management Unit, Planning and
Finance Department, and the Centre for Research and Information. Given the scope of
activities to be implemented under the project it is not possible for all components to be
implemented simultaneously throughout the country. Hence, a phased plan has been
prepared which will allovv a constant improvement in the management capacity throughout
the life of the project.
10.          The project office will be responsible for reviewing quarterly the MIS plans
for the project, and for approving all modifications to current information systems, and for
approving management training plans. Contracts for software development, and staff for
programming will be approved through the project office as necessary.
11.          The first two years of the project will be targeted at developing new MIS
systems, both computerized and paper, and developing and implementing training



123                             Annex 9
programs for management skills. These systems will be tested in the first five provinces
prior to implementation on a national basis.
12.   The implementaltion of each of the systems will be determined based on the
necessary decisions to be made at each level. Training, in use of general management, and
specific systems, will be designed in conjunction with the MIS project efforts, and the
training department.
Functional Sub-Systems Overview
Planning & Prioritization
* Increase capacity in planning and prioritization
* Develop management skills in use of information and data
* Increase level of modeling capacity in NCPFP and PCPFP
* Develop management tools for planning at District level
D Increase Policy analysis capacity
Budgeting/Accounting
- Increase National, Provincial and District level budgeting capacity
*  Provide skills in budget preparation for project activities
* Provide computer capacity and tools for budget preparation
Monitoring & Evaluation
- Increase capacity at National, Provincial and District level for monitoring and
- evaluation of population and family health activities
* Provide skills in quantitative evaluation techniques for NCPFP and PCPFP
* Provide skills in quantitative and qualitative monitoring and evaluation for DCPFP
and DHC staff
Service Delivery Information (Health/FP)
* Integrate MCH SD data for planning and overall population and family health
activities analysis
* Increase oversight of delivery of FP "contract" services
Training Information Systems (Staff Allocations)



124                              Annex 9
* Gather planning information for training of population and family health personnel
* Target training of skills to needed areas
*  Provide basic information on personnel at commune level for resource allocation
EEC Activities Information
* Planning and prioritizing for IEC activities
* Evaluation of IEC impact of population and family health service delivery
Logistics Information Systems
* Improvement of logistics and inventory tracking systems
* Evaluation of SD aind materials against project activities
Statistics/Demographic Data Analysis
*  Increase use of statistical indicators to evaluate population and family health
activities
*  Integration of other sources of information in the population and family health
program for planning and Prioritization
-  Increase range of data utilized by the population and family health  for program
and policy analysis
Other: Surveys, GIS, Journals, etc.
-  Expand use of addiitional data collection methods
-  Increase use of rapid assessment surveys to target Provincial level activities
*  Expand capacity to conduct "one-off" surveys for policy studies
* Provide NCPFP vwith international professional Journals on Population program,
MIS and demographic issues.
Description of MIS &: Software Development
13.          The MI;S effort under the project will involve the coordination of a large
number of different offices to ensure appropriate designs for software, and for planning
training efforts. The basic goal of the MIS systems under the project will be to increase
the use of management information without increasing significantly the burden for
information collection and processing at the Commune level.



125                              Annex 9
14.          To achieve these goals the systems will be designed so as to collect and
integrate information from other sources, such as GSO, which will reduce the overall need
for the population and family health program to independently collection information. The
major level for computerized intervention will be at the Provincial level.
MIS Responsibilities/Scope of Activities (Staffing)
15.          Given that the MIS efforts will be responsible for coordinating activities
with all NCPFP departments, and have to work directly with the PFPFP in revision of
systems the implementing office must have substantial authority.
16.          Subject to NCPFP a separate Management Information department will be
developed under the P'roject to oversee the implementation of the National MIS
components.
17.          Staffing of the MIS will increase during the initial phase of the project. It
is estimated that the first two years will require additional programmers, and a designer to
develop the necessary systems.
MIS Coordinating Work Group
18.          Currently all offices of the NCPFP adequately share information related to
ongoing activities for planning, budgeting and research. However, the level of effort
under the project for MIS activities will significantly increase the need for coordination of
activities and information needs. The scope of the MIS activities, including all Provinces,
and stressing training as well as software development, demands that greater oversight and
guidance be given provided during the life of the project. Additionally, the widened scope
of the information to be gathered and utilized from different sources, and for different
activities, necessitates increased management control and prioritization by the NCPFP
Project Unit.
19.          The Project Unit at the beginning of the project will create an Management
Information Systems Coordinating Work Group. This work group will be responsible for
all MIS policy and operattional decisions within the NCPFP.
20.          The coordinating work group will be responsible for the following
activities:
(a)    Policy Development
(b)   Informatio:n System Planning
(c)    Oversight of System Implementation



126                             Annex 9
(d)   Information Coordination
Technical Hardware Requirements
NCPFP Systems
21.          Computer systems will be installed within the NCPFP to increase the data
processing capacity for all national activities, and to provide necessary resources for
developing new software systems.
PCPFPs Systems
22.          Computer systems will be installed, phased over the life of the project, in
all Provincial offices.
Field Test Systems
23.          Specific computer systems will be installed for testing in selected District
offices, and in Urban centers.
24.          Under the national budget, approximately VDG 3 billion ($275,000) have
been allocated for Management training. More than 50 per cent is spent on conducting a 3-
month orientation course in which topics relating to demography, the national family
planning program and otlier such topics are covered. While different types of participants
go through these courses (from the national, provincial and district levels), the content and
design is held constant because of the basic nature of the ground being covered. In
addition, 7-day focused courses are also conducted for more specialized groups.
Management Training
25.          A substantial escalation is proposed under the project with the purpose of
improving curriculum and materials, as well as conducting the training in a programatic
manner so that all levels azre systematically covered. The following are the features of the
Management Training program:
(a)   The crux of the attempt to revitalize Management Training is the
development of a central team of six trainers who will serve as the core
full-time trainers for the program. They will be drawn based on their
specialization and training record from the leading academic institutions in
the country.



127                             Annex 9
(b)   A team of international consultants will be contracted to train the core
team in training methodology, as well as to update their technical
knowledge in their own fields. These will consist of:
(i)    M[anagement systems and structures
(ii)   Research methods
(iii)   Management information systems
(iv)   Management of IEC
(v)   Materials and operations management
(vi)   Human resource management
(vii)  Financial management
It is planned that the training of the national trainers should be completed in
3 morths by the international tearn.
(c)   After the core team has been trained and the curriculum and materials
developed for the provincial level, a pool of provincial trainers will be
created by training 3 persons from the staff of each PCPFP, again over a 3-
month period. It will be the responsibility of this pool to continue the
training of district (3 per district) and commune level staff. All such
training will take place at the provincial office and district staff will not be
used as trainers.
(d)   In addition to creating the pool of provincial trainers, the core team will
also train other provincial staff (average of 2 per province) in management
by brinlging them  in to the national level.   A one-month course is
visualized, with batches of 60 provincial staff working in one sections.
26.          The project will also provide for overseas training for selected national and
provincial staff. The specific nature of this training will depend on the future perspectives
adopted by NCPFP, resources have been provided for long- as well as short-term overseas
training, including support for academic work in any of the fields mentioned earlier.
27.          Monitoring and evaluation will be done on the basis of a Training Needs
Assessment conducted at the start of the project and a rapid assessment two year after the
training activities have: commenced with the new curriculum. Refresher and subsequent
training will be based on these data.



-128 -                          Annex 10
ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE
SERVICE DELIVERY INITIATIVES COMPONENT
Institutional Arrangements
1.          A Service Delivery Initiatives Committee will be established within the
Project Management Unit (PMU) of the NCPFP to manage the Service Delivery
Initiatives component. Standing committee members will include the Director of the
PMU, the PMU Task Manager, and the PMU Family Planning Service Officer. A
designated representative of MOH will also join the committee for management of any
component activities concerning the development of private-sector involvement in
FP/reproductive health services.
2.          The tasks of the committee will be to solicit, develop, review and
administer implementation of proposals for financing under the component. It will
seek assistance in these tasks as appropriate from the PMU's Local Experts Task Force,
other local or international consultants, and other staff of the PMU, other departments
of NCPFP and of MOH.
Procedures for Processing Proposals
3.          The comiponent is intended to provide flexible and unstructured
financing. Although some activities have already been designed and costed in detail or
in outline during project preparation, it will also be open to innovative ideas and
proposals from all quarters.
4.          Thus, proposals for financing under the component can be originated and
developed in a variety of ways. They may be originated and prepared by the PMU
itself or by other departrnents of the NCPFP. They may be designed and submitted to
the committee by any external agency, including MOH. They may be solicited by the
committee from external agencies at large, with or without specific terms of reference
to guide proposal preparaltion.
5.          The committee will be responsible for development and preparation of
the final detailed design for the proposals that were decided upon during project
preparation and are outlined in Annex 11. In addition, it will, as appropriate, solicit
other proposals, prepare detailed terms of reference for desired topics, review proposals
that are submitted and decide on whether they should be componented. In all cases, the
proposals would specify ihe chosen procedure for implementing it and, if the proposal



-129 -                          Annex 10
involves pilots or testing of new approaches or service delivery systems, the
arrangements for evaluation of their success.
6.          Once proposals have been finalised and approved by the committee, they
will be submitted for review to IDA, or to ADB in the case of proposals relating to
development of the private/NGO sector, together with the procedure chosen for
implementing it. Upon approval by IDA or ADB, the committee will then manage
implementation of the proposal.
7.          Implementation again may be handled in a variety of ways, depending
on circumstances, at the discretion of the committee. The PMU may itself directly
implement the proposal, or arrange for its implementation through another Government
agency, such as MOH, MOLISA or GSO. This would be the case with the testing of
the health post and upgraded collaborator model systems, for example, where MOH
would implement the test and possibly MOLISA or GSO evaluate its success.
Alternatively, the committee may use a standard IDA or ADB bidding process to solicit
bids for the implementation of proposals, using the approved detailed proposals as
terms of reference for bidders. This might for example be the procedure chosen for
implementing some of the outlined studies, such as those on IUD and MR/abortion
determinants and service quality. If the latter process is followed, it would be subject
to the IDA or ADB procurement guidelines in force for all other procurement under the
project and would be implemented in the same way. The committee would then be
responsible for bid evaluation and final selection of consultants.
8.          The committee will be responsible for monitoring and supervision of
proposal implementation in all cases. When implementation is complete, and the
results and findings of surveys or evaluations are available, the committee will review
the overall success and implications of the proposal topic and report on it to IDA, ADB
and the Project Steering Committee.



-130-                            Annex 11
INDICATIVE LIST OF TOPICS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE
SERVICE DELIVERY MODEL INITIATIVES COMPONENT
Model Strengthened Collaborator System
1.          The current collaborator system is the principal channel of community-
based outreach for tlhe promotion of family planning.  However it is in need of
strengthening. At present the system consists of a very large number of part-time workers
who are paid very small monthly allowances of 15,000 dongs per month (plus incentive
payments for recruitment of acceptors of selected methods) and focus almost entirely on
the promotion of family planning.
2.           A new model system will be tested under component 5, and extended if
successful throughout the 15 project provinces under Component 1; it will feature much
reduced numbers of collaborators, who will become full-time workers paid higher
allowances of 120,000 dongs per month and cover promotion of family health as well as
family planning. An imlportant FP function would be the community-based distribution for
temporary methods such as pills (resupply) and condoms. The new name of Family Health
Worker will be given to these workers. The outline of the new model system is as follows:
3.           Forty five communes will be selected within the 15 project provinces for
testing the new model system. Twenty two will be located in remote mountainous areas or
isolated islands; eighteen in the delta regions; and five in midland or mountainous areas
falling between the tvvo previous extremes. A community needs assessment/feasibility
study will be carried out in each study zone, in order to ensure full community
participation, determine local cultural attitudes and values, and assess the existing health
infrastructure and referral system.
4.          In the remote mountainous/island areas, 7 workers would be selected per
commune; in the midland/mountainous areas, 5 workers; and in the delta plains, 3
workers, making up 233 family health workers altogether in the test. Selection criteria
would be determined locally on the basis of the community needs assessment and in
discussion with the communities. Normally, the most effective workers of this type are
those closest in social status, culture, age and experience; they should also be
contraceptors themselves. Other important criteria might include sex, literacy or
educational level, marital and childbearing status, health training, and appropriate
commitment and skills in interpersonal relations.
5.           The tasks of the family health workers would be fine-tuned on the basis of
the community needs assessment. However a likely minimum package would include:



- 131 -                           Annex 11
(a)    motivation and recruitment of new  FP acceptors and support,
counselling and reassurance to continuing users; all supported by
adequate quantities of appropriate printed IEC materials which can be left
with clients, as well as by mass media messages
(b)   distribution of contraceptive supplies: using a simple checklist, workers
will initiate and resupply clients for short-term temporary methods such as
the pill and condoms; the low-dose combined pill would be supplied to
women who are breastfeeding or contraindicated for the use of oestrogen;
adequate quantities would be provided per visit (for example, six pill
packets) in order to reduce the number of visits needed per client; workers
with sufficient medical training could also be trained to give injectables
(c)   follow-up of contraceptive defaulters: workers would regularly follow up
both their own clients and those who obtained their method elsewhere
(d)   promotion and simple services for basic primary health care: workers
could promote, follow up on and perhaps provide simple basic care for
basic PH-C interventions such as EPI, CDD, growth monitoring and
appropriate maternal care; also disease control programs for malaria, TB,
iodine deficiency diseases etc.
6.           In order to carry out these tasks on a door-to-door basis, workers will be
provided where necessary with suitable transport such as bicycles or (in very remote areas
with difficult terrain and sparse settlements) motorcycles.
7.           Training of the family health workers would be fine-tuned on the basis of
the community needs assessments and resulting selection criteria for workers. Generally
speaking, the content of training would be kept very simple and concrete, using training
techniques appropriate to adults and oriented to the development of practical skills.
Training should last for at least 2 weeks, in order to allow adequate time for practical
training. Workers would be trained to:
(a)    provide accurate information on each contraceptive method they offer
(pills, condoms, injectables), including its proper use and side effects
(b)   discuss the advantages of family planning and birth spacing and describe
accurately all available methods, their correct use and their side-effects
(c)    provide advice on how to obtain clinical methods



-132-                             Annex 11
(d)   discuss the advantages of basic PHC and disease control interventions and
programs and provide accurate information on them
The training curriculurn would be prepared by revising the latest collaborator curriculum
developed with UNFPA support, in order to simply the material and add health topics.
8.           Medical back-up for the family health workers will be provided by CHCs.
To ensure that this back-up is effective, CHC staff in the study areas will be involved in
the planning of the new system and will be trained in technical supervision of the workers.
All CHCs in the study zones will be upgraded as necessary to provide good-quality
referral and back-up services.
9.           The objectives of supervision for the family health workers will be to:
provide support and back-up when problems arise; watch for any difficulties; and link the
family health worker system effectively to the mainstream FP program and to the health
system. Supervisors will also facilitate the supplying and restocking of the family health
workers and the collection of service statistics. Supervisors must possess appropriate
knowledge and experience and be able to take a supportive and encouraging attitude to
their subordinates. Full-time local CPFPB staff with these characteristics would be
recruited and trained, and supervisory instruments such as supervision manuals and
checklists would be developed and supplied to them. they would also be provided with
motorcycles in order to ensure adequate mobility for their operations.
10.          The family health workers will keep records of their work, including a
comprehensive record of each client's social, demographic and medical history plus the
management and services provided by the family health worker, and a record of stocks
held and IEC materials distributed by the family health worker. Data on the numbers of
new acceptors recruited and continuing users visited, plus the quantities of contraceptives
distributed, will be collected, compiled and submitted to the supervisor on a monthly basis.
11.          The test of the new system will last for two years. Its performance and
impact would be monitored and evaluated through both routine service statistics and
special community surveys, using data from neighbouring areas which continued with the
current system as comparators and controls. Indicators that might be employed to assess
trends attributable to the new system include: community knowledge of short-term
methods; the community CPR; changes in the method mix; appropriate PHC and disease-
control program measures.



-133-                            Annex 11
Model Health Post System for Remote Mountainous Areas
12.         As described in Annex 15, a model health post system would be tested in
60 communes in remote mountainous areas in the 15 project provinces, and expanded
under Component 1 to all such areas in the 15 project provinces if successful. For a
commune to be eligible for coverage by the system, it must fulfill the following criteria:
(a)   the CHC must have at least 3 health staff
(b)   the CHC must be at least 4 hours walking distance from the nearest DHC
(c)   there must be strong commitment from the Provincial People's Committee
13.         A health post would be set up in one village in each commune. It would
consist of two small rooms, one of which would be a consultation room/office and the
other a bedroom. Basic furniture, medical equipment, a selection of essential drugs, and a
bicycle for household visiting would be supplied.
14.         The health post would be staffed by one of the CHC health workers, on
either a rotational basis or as a permanent assignment, according to the choice of the
workers. The health worker in residence would provide basic IEC and services for
MCH/FP, including the distribution of appropriate contraceptives and some minor curative
care. If the new family health worker system is also being implemented in the commune,
the health post might be staffed by the family health worker.
15.         The success of the health post system would be evaluated at the end of a
two-year test period of operation. Neighbouring areas that did not receive health posts
would be used as comparators. Both routine health service statistics and special
community surveys alt the beginning and end of the test period would be employed for
monitoring and evaluation. Indicators of performance and impact might include trends in a
selection of common PHC program measures, such as EPI rates and appropriate maternal
care, as well as data on community satisfaction with, and utilization of, the health posts.
Model Approaches for Mobilization of the Private/NGO Sectors in Family Planning
and Family Health
16.   These model approaches are aimed at expanding the provision of good-quality
family planning and reproductive health services by the private and NGO sector. they do
not include social marketing programs, which are funded under Component 2.



-134 -                            Annex 11
A.    Private Providers
17.          Since information on the scope, structure and performance of the private
sector in Viet Nam is so limited, the first step in designing model approaches to mobilizing
private providers will necessarily be data gathering. Two initial surveys will be undertaken.
The first will be a market research survey among doctors and possibly also other health
providers such as midwives and nurses, which will aim to determine the factors that
motivate or hinder them  in establishing or expanding a private practice in family
planning/reproductive health. The second will be a consumer survey that would examine
the attractiveness to actual and potential clients of obtaining such services through the
private rather than the public health sector.
18.          On the basis of results from  these surveys, model initiatives and
interventions would be designed for testing. Possibilities already under discussion include:
(a)    Creation of a pilot loan fund: A fund would be set up to provide credit to
doctors for the establishment or expansion of private clinics. Eligible
doctors would be those who include family planning/reproductive health
services as part of their practice. Allowable uses might include small-scale
upgrading of premises, and basic equipment and supplies needed to provide
or upgrade these services.
(b)   Provide updated training: Different mechanisms would be tested for
providing   updated  training   for  private  doctors  in  family
planning/reproductive health.
(c)    Mobilize  private  providers  to  service  remote  areas: Different
mechanisms would be tested for mobilizing private providers to bring
family planning/reproductive services to areas which are underserved.
Possibilities might include: special support schemes for midwives or other
paramedical cadres who would be interested in providing such services in
rural areas; incentive programs to attract doctors to rural areas; and special
time-sharing programs allowing private providers to utilize public health
facilities as premises for their service delivery.
Provide IEC materials: Specially adapted family planning/reproductive health EEC
materials would be designed and supplied to private providers including pharmacists.
(d)   Establish professional associations: Assistance would be provided in a
small number of provinces for the establishment of professional
associations of private providers offering family planning/reproductive



- 135 -                           Annex 1 1
health services; the purpose would be to create a forum through which the
concerns of such providers could be shared and addressed, information
could be distributed, and training seminars could be held.
(e)    Alleviate constraints to private practice: Attempts would be made to
alleviate any constraints identified as affecting the private provision of
family planning/reproductive health services, through policy papers,
seminars and other activities.
B.    Non-Governmental Organizations
19.          Information on the activities and performance of the two existing NGOs in
the family planning/reproductive health field is also extremely limited. It is therefore
difficult even to develop an outline of possible ways to mobilize the potentially very
valuable contribution of this source. Emphasis should probably be on the provision of low-
cost but good-quality services to particularly poor and underserved populations. However
the first priority would be to amass adequate information on the NGO sector. Thus the
NGO strategy would consist of two stages; first to obtain a data base for planning and
second to develop initiatives, as follows:
(a)    Evaluate existing NGOs: Active NGOs would be studied to evaluate their
performance, their impact to date and the reasons why clients prefer them.
(b)   Expand NGO activities to underserved areas: On the basis of the evaluation
results, initiatives would be identified, designed and tested for expanding
NGO services, probably with a focus on underserved groups.
Pilot Test of Charging for Contraceptives
20.          This pilot test will examine the impact  and feasibility of introducing
charges for contraceptives provided under public family planning services. The aim of the
charges would not be to achieve full cost recovery, but rather to increase the perceived
value of family planning services and hence raise the level and effectiveness of
contraception use. The pilot would measure the impact of different levels and structures of
charging systems on the utilization of public family planning services. It will be carried out
during the first three years of the project and its results evaluated as part of the project
mid-term review.



-136-                            Annex 11
Model Approaches for Safe Pregnancy and Safe Motherhood
21.         Levels of maternal mortality appear to be anomalously high in Viet Nam,
given overall levels of life expectancy and health services. Important facets of matemal
health care, such as provision of iron and vitamin A supplements during pregnancy and
adequate delivery facilities for both normal and complicated deliveries, need improvement
throughout the country, but particularly in remote and underserved areas. These model
approaches would seek to improve the well-being of women during pregnancy and
delivery in a variety of ways. An initial list of models includes:
(a)    Reduction of Anaemia and Vitamin A Deficiency: Both anaemia and
vitamin A deficiency are very common among Vietnamese women of
reproductive age, and still more during pregnancy. They may lead to
various obstetric complications and compromise the health of infants born
to deficient women. Evaluative studies will be carried out to identify the
most successful model strategies for reducing these deficiencies. Such
strategies might include, in addition to provision of supplements as a part
of prenatal care, dietary supplementation with foods rich in iron and
vitamin A, treatment for underlying or resulting diseases (such as malaria
and general infections), and counselling and IEC on good nutritional
practices.
(b)   Safe Home Deliveries: Over forty percent of deliveries in Viet Nam still
take place at home, and 27 percent occur without assistance from any
health staff. Nearly two thirds of communes are without a secondary
midwife. Thus approaches need to be designed for improving home
delivery practices. An initial survey would be conducted to identify and
investigate any harmful practices, and to examine reasons for delivering at
home and/or without trained medical staff in attendance. On the basis of
the study results, model approaches would be designed and tested for
improving current home delivery practices and increasing utilization of
health facilities and staff for deliveries.
Management of High-Risk Pregnancy and Complications: About 15 percent of
deliveries world-wide suffer from obstetric complications (haemorrhage, sepsis, eclampsia,
obstructed labour) that are potentially life-threatening and require specialized management
and facilities. Various model approaches would be designed and tested for improving
access to and utilization of appropriate facilities. These might include establishment of
"maternity waiting houses" near District or Provincial hospitals for women known to be at
high-risk of complications, programs to promote private practice in isolated rural areas (as



-137-                            Annex 1l
above), and programs to establish or improve systems for emergency referral and transport
in obstetric emergencies.
Model Approaches for IUD, Pregnancy Termination and RTI Services
22.          Levels of IUD use and pregnancy termination are very high in Viet Nam;
one third of married women are fitted with an IUD and the average number of
terminations per woman is estimated at 2.5. Likewise, RTIs are known to be extremely
prevalent among Vietnamese women, though the precise rate has never been measured.
All are interconnected, in that RTIs may complicate both IUD insertion and pregnancy
termination, and also result from either procedure if sterile conditions are not achieved;
moreover, IUDs are often in practice the only modern contraceptive method available to
Vietnamese women and if they are unacceptable for any reason (including RTIs),
termination may be the only practical alternative or may become necessary through the
failure of the rhythm method or withdrawal. All require improvement in service quality or
access to effective treatment, and the prevalence rates of RTIs and termination, at least,
need to be reduced. Model approaches to achieve these aims in all three areas will be
developed on the basis of improved data.
A.    IUD Program Impact Evaluation
23.          The IUI) has for decades been and still is the dominant modem
contraceptive method in Viet Nam. Many clinical studies on this method have been
conducted, but no evalLiation of its program impact. Therefore as a first step, a study of
national scope would be conducted to assess the acceptability of the IUD among
Vietnamese women, the common problems encountered by acceptors and users, the
training needs of service providers, and how well equipped facilities are to handle
problems and complications. This study would have four parts:
(a)   Review of IUD Patient Records: a national representative sample of IUD
client records will be reviewed from all levels of facility where lUDs are
provided. Data will be extracted on: demographic characteristics of
acceptors; selection criteria used for IUD users; the client follow-up
schedule., complaints and problems reported by clients; how these were
managed; level and patterns of method failure; and main reasons for
discontinuation.
(b)   Interviews with Current and Past IUD Users: a representative sample of
past and current IUD users whose records were reviewed in part (1) of the
survey will be interviewed. Current users will be questioned on: what and



-138-                           Annex 11
who motivated them to accept an IUD; what was their experience of
insertion; what were provider attitudes and care; whether or not they
received accurate information and effective support; how often they have
been followed up; whether they have any complaints or complications; how
satisfied they are with the method; and whether they would recommend a
friend or relative to use the IUD. Past users will be questioned on their
experience with the IUD: in particular whether they had complaints or
complications, were happy or not with the method, why they discontinued,
whether they switched to another method, which method they changed to,
and whether they would recommend a friend or relative to use an IUD.
(c)   Questionnaires Administered to HUD  Providers: Service providers
would be surveyed to examine: their knowledge of and attitudes to the
IUD and other contraceptive methods; their training in insertion and
removal; their current level of skill in counselling, client selection for IUD
use, insertion and removal techniques. In addition, focus-group discussions
with groups of providers would be conducted to elicit in depth their
attitudes and beliefs about the IUD in an informal setting.
(d)   Focus-Group Discussions with Women in General: Wide-ranging focus-
group discussions would be carried out with unselected groups of women
in the community, with the aim of eliciting: general attitudes to the IUD;
whether they are correctly informed about the IUD; what are the common
myths and misconceptions about the IUD; and what are the common myths
and misconceptions about other methods.
24.         On the basis of results from this study, model approaches, protocols and
interventions would be developed and tested to improve IUD acceptability and service
quality: for example, through standardization of state-of-the-art IUD insertion and
removal techniques, follow-up care and RTI treatment; fine-tuning of selection and
screening criteria for IUD use; corresponding refresher training and improved pre-service
training; better supervision of providers; provision of appropriate IEC materials and
programs, etc.
B.    Evaluation of Pregnancy Termination Services
25.           Pregnancy termination has been made widely available in Viet Nam with
the intention of providing safe back-up services in the event of contraceptive failure.
Current levels of menstrual regulation and abortion are however much above expected
back-up needs in a situation of widespread access to modern contraception and need to be



-139 -                           Annex 11
reduced. Again, a number of clinical studies on this subject have been carried out, but
there is still a need for an assessment of the causes and program implications of the current
high termination rates. Therefore a national study will be conducted using both
institutional-level and community-level data. Its aims will be to establish the level of
pregnancy termination, to determine the reasons for seeking pregnancy termination, and
the consequences of current levels and patterns of termination. The study will be
composed of three parts, as follows:
(a)   Study of Service Records: From a representative sample of termination
client records, the following data will be collected: demographic
characteristics of women seeking termination; reasons for opting for
termination; contraceptive history. A sample of clients would also be
intervievved on: their experience of the procedure; the quality of services
received, including pre-termination and post-termination counselling; their
attitudes to termination and other birth control methods; and their
subsequent reproductive and contraceptive histories.
(b)   Study of Service Providers: A sample of providers will be surveyed on
aspects of service quality at all levels of facility where terminations are
done, including questions on: what kind of pre-termination and post-
termination counselling they offer, with particular attention to minimizing
or preventing repeat abortions through appropriate contraception; their
training and skill levels in termination techniques; schedules of follow-up
care; treatment of RTIs; and main complications and problems
encountered. In addition, focus-group discussions with groups of providers
would be conducted to elicit in depth their attitudes and beliefs about
termination in an informal setting.
(c)   Study of Community Attitudes and Practices: The community study
will include both a sample survey of married women and wide-ranging
focus-group discussions with unselected groups of community women. The
sample survey would aim to collect reliable data on the incidence and
patterns of pregnancy termination, including service location and cost of
the procedure to the client (this latter to be supplemented also by data from
MOH on the cost of providing the service). The focus-group discussions
would explore community perceptions of and attitudes to pregnancy
termination.
26.          On the basis of results from this study, model approaches, protocols and
interventions would be developed and tested to reduce levels of pregnancy terminati n
and improve service quality: for example, in addition to improved access to a wide ra ge



- 140 -                          Annex I I
of modem contraceptive methods, through standardization of state-of-the-art MR. and
abortion techniques, follow-up care and RTI treatment; fine-tuning of selection and
screening criteria for MRs; improved pre-termination and post-termination counselling
with emphasis on ensuring protection from a further unwanted pregnancy through
immediate contraceptive counselling and supply; corresponding refresher training and
improved pre-service training; better supervision of providers; provision of appropriate
[EC materials and programs, etc.
C.    Evaluation of RTI Services
27.         Although RTIs are universally acknowledged to be a major reproductive
health problem in Viet Nam, there is a severe lack of data on RTI incidence, prevalence,
patterns and causes. The first step in any attempt to reduce RTI levels must therefore be
data collection. A three-part study will be conducted in selected districts, representing a
variety of living conditions and cultures, to establish the exact extent and nature of the
RTI problem. Again, both institutional and community-level data will be collected, as
follows:
(a)   Study of Service Records: Client records from a sample of facilities at all
levels of care will be examined to gain a preliminary idea of the extent of
the problenm, as well as associated, pre-disposing and causal factors (with
particular attention to associations with the IUD and pregnancy
termination), and treatment given. A sample of clients would be surveyed
to provide corresponding information.
(b)   Study of Service Providers: A sample of providers will be surveyed on
aspects of service quality, including questions on: management protocols
followed for RTI diagnosis and treatment, with attention to management of
concurrent IUD or termination care; their training and skill levels in
diagnosis and treatment; schedules of follow-up care; and main
complications and problems encountered. In addition, focus-group
discussions with groups of providers would be conducted to elicit in depth
their attitudes and beliefs about RTIs in an informal setting.
(c)   Study of Community Attitudes and Practices: The community study
will include both a sample survey of married women and wide-ranging
focus-group discussions with unselected groups of community women. The
sample survey would aim to collect reliable data on the incidence and
patterns of RTIs, including associations with rUD and termination and their
experience of treatment at health facilities. The focus-group discussions



-141-                            Annex 11
would explore community perceptions of and knowledge about the
determinants of RTIs and the problems associated with them.
28.          On the basis of results from this study, model approaches, protocols and
interventions would be developed and tested to reduce the prevalence of RTIs and
improve service quality: for example, through development of preventive strategies;
standardization of protocols for state-of-the-art RTI diagnosis and treatment, and follow-
up care, including how to handle IUD use and termination; corresponding refresher
training and improved pre-service training; better supervision of providers; provision of
appropriate IEC materials and programs, etc.
29.          Strategies and Models for Minority Populations: The health post model
described above is one approach to the problem of improving access to good-quality and
appropriate family health services for disadvantaged ethnic minorities. However an overall
set of strategies and approaches needs to be developed. Other model interventions will be
developed and tested on the basis of sound base data and informed participation by
minority communities. Special participative baseline studies will be carried out, and a
variety of models and strategies will be piloted and evaluated. These might include special
incentive programs to attract private and NGO providers to minority areas and special
training programs for traditional midwives and healers. Overall evaluative studies will also
be carried out at the end of the project.



Project Costs By Component, Category of Expenditure and Year
Table 1
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project                                                                National Level Program
Expenditure Accounts by Cornponents -       Provincial Level Service Delivery                                            FP Service
(USS Million)                                         Essential                                             Managemrent & Delivery        Physical
Facility Equiprment Drug  In-service  Outreach  Strengthenin  ontraceptive Institutional   Model   Qonfingniez
UgradWng Provision Supaly  Trainmng Strenothenon   FP [EC      Supply   Deve[oJnnt Initiative Total  %  ArrDun
I. Investrent Costs
A. Civil Works                        19.4                 -              -           -            -                0.1        - 19.5  5.0   1.0
B. Equipment                             -     15.0        -      0.2         0.2         8.7            -          1.4        - 25.5  4.0   1.0
D. Drugs                                 -        -    12.7         -           -           -           -             -        - 12.7  5.0   0.6
E. Contraceptives                        -        -        -        -                       -         22.5            -        - 22.5      -     -
F. Training
Overseas Training                                                 -                       -            -          0.7        -  0.7  5.0   0.0
Local Training                         -        -        -      2- 30.5                                -          0.9        -  3 7   5.0  Q.2
Subtotal Training                        -        -        -      2.3           -         0.5            -          1.6        -  4.4  5.0   0.2
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance           -        -        -      0.3           -          0.3           -          0.3        -  0.8  3.3   0.0
Local Technical Assistance             -        -        -      0.4           -          2.7           --                             Q 3.1  5.0   0.2 
Subtotal Technical Assistance            -        -        -      0.7           -         3.0            -          0.3        -  3.9  4.7   0.2       9
H. Studies and Pilots                    -        -        -        -0.1                                            1.5      6.0  7.6  0.1   0.0
Total lnvestmrent Costs                 19.4     15.0    12.7       3.2         0.2         12.3        22.5          4.9      6.0  96.1  3.2   3.0
II. Recufrent Costs
A. Outreach Workers Allowance            -        -        -        -         6.3           -            -            -        -  6.3  5.0   0.3
B. Maintenance for Civil Works         1.1        -        -        -           -           -            -          0.0        -  1.1  5.0   0.1
C. Maintenance for Equipment             -      1.5        -        -                      0.3           -          0.1        -  1.9  5.0   0.1
D. Logistcs                              -      1.1      1.0        -           -         0.3          1.7          0.1        -  4.2  5.0   0.2
E. Operating Cost la                     -        -        -        3           -           -            -           5         -5.0   0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                    1.1      2.6      1.0      0.3         6.3         0.7          1.7          0.7        -142   5.0   07
Total BASEUNE COSTS                     20.5      17.6    13.7       3.5         6.5        12.9        24.2          5.5       6.0 110.4  3.4   3.8
Physical Contingencies                 1.0      0.9      0.7      0.2         0.3         0.4         0.1           0.2        -  3.8      -     -
Price Contingencies                    3.5      1.8      1.8      0.9         2.2         3.4          1.0          I- 15.5  4-4   0-7
Total PROJECT COSTS                     24.9      20.3    16.1       4.5         9.0        16.8        25.3          6.7       6.0 129.6  3.4   4.4
Taxes                                  0.7      1.4        -      0.0         0.1          2.0           -          0.1        -  4.3  2.4   0.1
Foreign Exchange                       6.7     15.7    14.1       1.1         0.9          4.1        22.0          2.9      1.2  68.6  2.9   2.0
ba To cover incemental oost of travel, supply & communication, etc.



Table 2
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Popubtion & Family Health Project                                                                             National Level Prouram
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Tot          Provincial Level Service Delivery                                                     FP Service
(USS Million)                                                Essential                                                   Management &  Delivery
Facility  Equipment  Drug  In-service   Outreach   Strengthening Contraceptives  Institutional    Model
Upgradina Provision  SUDDIy  Trainina Strenathenina    FP IEC         SuDlDV      Development  Initiative   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. CivilWorks                              23.4                   -     Q               1                    -                   01               23.6
B. Equipment                                  -      16.7         -      0.2           0.3         11.0              -           1.5              29.6
D. Drugs                                      -         -      14.8        -            -             -              -             -          -   14.8
E. Contraceptives                             -         -         -        -            -             -           23.0             -          -   23.0
F. Training
Overseas Training                           -         -         -        -            -             -              -           0.8          -    0.8
Local Training                             -          -        -       3.1            -           0.7             -            1.2          -    5.0
Subtotal Training                             -         -         -      3.1            -           0.7              -           2.0          -    5.8
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance                -         -        -       0.3            -           0.3              -           0.3          -    0.8
Local Technical Assistance                 -          -        -       0.5            -           3.8             -            0.0          -    4.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 -         -         -      0.8             -          4.0              -           0.3          -    5.2
H. Studies and Pilots                         -         -        -         -            -           0.1             -            1.9        6.0    8.0
Total Investment Costs                       23.4      16.7      14.8      4.1           0.3         15.9           23.0           5.8        6.0  110.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Outreach Workers Allowance                 -         -         -        -           8.7            -              -             -          -    8.7
B. Maintenance for Civil Works              1.5         -        -         -            -             -             -            0.0          -    1.5
C. Maintenance for Equipment                  -       2.1         -        -             -          0.5              -           0.1          -    2.7
D. Logistics                                  -       1.4       1.3        -            -           0.4            2.3           0.1          -    5.6
E. Operating Cost/a                           -         -         -      0.4             -            -              -           0.7          -    1.1
Total Recurrent Costs                         1.5       3.6       1.3      0.4           8.7          0.9            2.3           0.9          -   19.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                          24.9       20.3     16.1       4.5          9.0          16.8          25.3            6.7       6.0  129.6
Taxes                                       0.7       1.4         -      0.0           0.1          2.0              -           0.1          -    4.3
Foreign Exchange                            6.7      15.7      14.1      1.1           0.9          4.1           22.0           2.9        1.2   68.6
ba To cover incremental cost of travel, supply & communication, etc.



- 144 -                                   Annex  12
Table 3
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health PrDJect
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ Milion)                                                   Base Cost
199S   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
A. Provincial Level Service Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading                  2.1      7.7    9.9    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   20.5
2. Equipment Provision                   -      4.3   10.0    2.5    0.3    0.3    0.3   17.6
3. Essential Drug Supply                 -      1.5    3.7    3.6    2.2    2.2    0.5   13.7
4. In-service Tralning                 0.5      0.5    0.8    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.1    3.5
5. Outreach Strengthening                -        - ----_1.7    i6  1.6   1.6         -    65
Subtotal Provincial Leve Service Delivery  2.7    13.9   26.0    8.5    4.8    4.7    1.1   61.7
B. National Level Program
1. StrengtheningFPIEC                  0.2      1.5    2.3    2.5    2.2    2.5    1.7   12.9
2. Contraceptives Supply                 -      4.1    4.6    5.8    7.0    1.4    1.4   24.2
3. Management & institutonal Development    1.1  0.9    1.2    0.7    0.5    1.0    0.2    5.5
4. FP Service Delivery Model lnitative  1.2     12   1.2    12    1.2         -       -    6 0
Subtotal National Level Program        2.5        7.7    9.2   10.2   10.9  4.8    3.3   48.6
Total BASEUNE COSTS                       5.2    21.5   35.2   18.7   15.7    9.5    4.5  110.4
Physical Contingencies                 0.2      0.8    1.4    0.6    0.4    0.3    0.2    3.8
Price Contingencies                  0.2        1.7    4.4    2 4    2.3    3.0    16    15,5
Total PROJECT COSTS                       5.6    24.1   41.0   21.6   18.3   12.9    6.3  129.6
Taxes                                  0.1      1.0    1.7    0.6    0.4    0.5    0.0    4.3
Foreign Exchange                       2.0    12.9   22.4   12.9   10.2    5.4    2.7   68.6



Table 4
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencie
(US$ Million)                                                               Totals Includinc Continuencies
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total
A. Provincial Level Service Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading                                     2.4      9.1    12.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3    24.9
2. Equipment Provision                                      -      4.7    11.3      2.9      0.4      0.4      0.5    20.3
3. Essential Drug Supply                                    -      1.6      4.2     4.3      2.6      2.7      0.7    16.1
4. In-service Training                                    0.6      0.6      1.0     0.8      0.8      0.7      0.2      4.5
5. Outreach Strengthening                                   -        -      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.3        -      9.0
Subtotal Provincial Level Service Delivery                  2.9    16.0    31.0    10.5        6.4      6.5      1.6    74.9
B. National Level Program
1. Strengthening FP IEC                                   0.2      1.7     2.7      3.2      3.0      3.4      2.7    16.8
2. Contraceptives Supply                                    -      4.1      4.7      6.0     7.2      1.6      1.7    25.3
3. Management & Institutional Development                 1.2      1.0      1.4     0.8      0.6      1.4      0.3      6.7
4. FP Service Delivery Model Initiative                   1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2        -        -      6.0
Subtotal National Level Program                             2.6      8.0    10.0    11.1      11.9      6.4      4.7    54.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          5.6    24.1    41.0    21.6    18.3    12.9         6.3   129.6
x



- 146 -                                 Annex 12
Table 5
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Cost
(USS Million)                                                 Base Cost
199B   1997   1998   1S99   2000   2001   202L Total
I. Investrent Costs
A. Civil Works                         2.1    7.7    9.7       -      -      -      -   19.5
B. Equipment                           0.6    5.0   11.2    4.0    1.8    1.9    1.0   25.5
D. Drugs                                 -    1.4   3.4    3.4    2.0    2.0    0.5   12.7
E. Contraceptives                        -    3.8    4.3    5.4    6.5    1.3    1.3   22.5
F. Training
Overseas Training                      -    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.7
Local Training                     0.0   0.6    0.7    0.9    0.6    0.6    0.3    3.7
Subtotal Training                      0.0    0.7    0.8    1.0    0.7    0.8    0.4    4.4
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance         0.3    0.2   0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8
Local Technical Assistance           01    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    3.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance          0.5    0.7    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.5    3.9
H. Studies and Pilots                  1.7    1.2    1.7    1.2  1.2    0.5         -    7.6
Total Investment Costs                   5.0   20.4   31.7   15.6   12.8    6.9    3.7  96.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Outreach Workers Allowance            -      -    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6       -    6.3
B. Maintenance for Civil Works         0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.1
C. Maintenance for Equipment           0.0    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.9
D. Logistics                           0.0    0.7    1.3    0.9    0.7    0.3    0.1    4.2
E. Operating Cost/a                    0.2    0.2   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1  0.8
Total Recurrent Cots                     0.2    1.1  3.5    3.1    2.9    2.6    0.8   14.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                      5.2   21.5   35.2   18.7   15.7    9.5    4.5  110.4
Physical Contingencies                 0.2    0.8    1.4    0.6    0.4    0.3    0.2    3.8
Price Contingencies                    0.2    1.7   4.4    2.4    2.3    3.0    1.6   15.5
Total PROJECTCOSTS                        5.6   24.1   41.0   21.6   18.3   12.9    6.3  129.6
Taxes                                  0.1    1.0    1.7    0.6    0.4    0.5    0.0    4.3
Foreign Exchange                       2.0   12.9   22.4   12.9   10.2    5.4    2.7   68.6
\a To cover incremental cost of travel, supply & communication, etc.



Table 6
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Inc
(US$ Million)                                             Totals Includina Continaencies
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001  -_20Q02Z_  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                          2.4      9.1    12.1        -       -        -       -    23.6
B. Equipment                            0.7      55     12.6      4.7     2.3     2.5      1.5    29.6
D. Drugs                                  -      1.5     3.9      3.9     2.4     2.5      0.6    14.8
E. Contraceptives                         -      3.8     4.3      5.4     6.5      1.5     1.5    23.0
F. Training
Overseas Training                       -      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.2      0.1     0.8
Local Training                        0.0      0.7     0.8      1.2     0.8     0.9      0.5     5.0
Subtotal Training                       0.0      0.8     1.0      1.4     1.0     1.1      0.6     5.8
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance          0.4      0.2     0.1      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.8
Local Technical Assistance            0.1      0.6     0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7     4.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance           0.5      0.8     0.8      0.7     0.8     0.8      0.8     5.2
H. Studies and Pilots                   1.8      1.2     1.8      1.2     1.2      0.7       -     8.0
Total Investment Costs                    5.3    22.7    36.5    17.4    14.1        9.0     5.0   110.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Outreach Workers Allowance             -        -     2.0      2.1     2.2      2.3       -     8.7
B. Maintenance for Civil Works          0.0      0.1     0.2      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3     1.5
C. Maintenance for Equipment            0.0      0.1     0.4      0.5     0.5     0.6      0.6     2.7
D. Logistics                            0.0      0.9     1.7      1.2     1.0     0.5      0.2     5.6
E.OperatingCost/a                       0.2      0.2     0.1      0.2     0.1     0.2      0.1     1.1
Total Recurrent Costs                     0.2      1.3     4.5      4.2     4.2      3.9     1.3    19.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                        5.6    24.1    41.0    21.6    18.3    12.9       6.3   129.6
\a To cover incremental cost of travel, supply & communication, etc.
x



Table 7
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project                        Intemational
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers         Vlet Nam       Development                      Asia Development
(US$ Million)                            Govemment        Association          KFW               Bank              Total       Dutles &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %             Amount    %        An1unt   %         Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                           2.4    10.0      6.3    26.8        -        -     14.9      63.2    23.6    182         0.7
B. Equipment                             3.6    12.0    15.9    53.5         -       -      10.2      34.6    29.6    22.9        3.6
D. Drugs                                 0.0       -      4.9    32.9        -        -     10.0      67.1    14.8    11.4          -
E. Contraceptives                        0.0       -      3.0    13.0    20.0    87.0          -         -    23.0    17.7
F. Training
Overseas Training                      0.0       -      0.8   100.0        -        -        -         -     0.8      0.6
Local Training                        -0.0    -0.0      3.5    69.9        -        -      1.5      30.1     5.0      3.9
Subtotal Training                        0.0       -      4.3    74.2        -        -      1.5      25.8     5.8      4.5         -
G. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance           0.0       -      0.8    94.8        -        -      0.0       5.2     0.8      0.6         -
Local Technical Assistance             0.0       -      4.1    93.8        -        -      0.3       6.2     4.3      3.3         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance            0.0       -      4.8    94.0        -        -      0.3       6.0     5.2      4.0         -     m
H. Studies and Pilots                   -0.0    -0.0      4.0    49.9        -        -      4.0      50.1     8.0      6.2         -  .
Total Investment Costs                     5.9      5.4    43.2    39.3    20.0    18.2       40.9      37.2   110.0    84.9        4.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Outreach Workers Allowance            2.6    30.0      6.1    70.0        -        -        -         -     8.7      6.7         -
B. Maintenance for Civil Works           1.5   100.0        -        -       -        -        -         -     1.5      1.2         -
C. Maintenance for Equipment             2.7   100.0        -        -       -        -        -         -     2.7      2.1         -
D. Logistics                             5.6   100.0        -        -       -        -        -         -     5.6      4.3         -
E. Operating Cost/a                      0.3    30.0      0.6    60.0        -        -      0.1      10.0     1.1      0.8         -
Total Recurrent Costs                     12.7    65.0      6.8    34.5        -        -       0.1      0.6    19.6    15.1
Total Disbursement                         18.6    14.4    50.0    38.6    20.0    15.4        41.0      31.6   129.6   100.0        4.3
\a To cover incremental cost of travel, supply & communication, etc.
x



Table 8
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Population & Family Health Project                                IntematIonal
Components by FInanders                            Viet Nam       Development                     Asia Development
(USS Million)                                    Govemment        Association         KFW              Bank              Total       Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %            Amount    %       Amount   %        Taxes
A. Provincial Level Service Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading                            3.8    15.4     6.2    24.9        -       -      14.9     59.7    24.9    19.2       0.7
2. Equipment Provision                           5.0    24.6     5.0    24.9        -       -      10.2     50.5    20.3    15.6       1.4
3 Essertial Drug Supply                          1.3     8.1      49     30.2       -       -      10.0     61.7    16.1    12.4         -
4. In-service Training                           0.1     2.7     2.5    54.7        -       -       1.9     42.6     4.5      3.5      0.0
5. Outreach Strengthening                        2.7    30.1     6.3    699         -       -         -        -     9.0      6.9       0.1
Subtotal Provincial Level Service Delivery        13.0    17.3    24.9    33.2        -       -      37.0     49.4    74.9    57.7       2.2
B. National Level Program
1. Strengthering FP IEC                          2.9    17.2    13.9    82.8        -       -        -         -    16.8    13.0       2.0
2. Contraceptives Supply                         2.3     9.1     3.0    11.8    20.0    79.1          -        -    25.3    19.5         -
3. Management & lnstitutional Development        0.5     7.2     6.2    92.8        -       -         -        -     6.7      5.2      0.1
4. FP Service Delivery Model Initiative            -       -     20    33.3         -       -       4.0     66.7     6.0      4.6-
Subtotal National Level Program                    5.7    10.4    25.1    45.8             36.5       4.0      7.3    54.8    42.3       2.0   ;
Total Disbursement                                18.6    14.4    50.0    38.6    20.0    15.4       41.0     31.6   129.6   100.0        4.3
x



-  150 -                              Annex  12
Table 9
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Fisical  Calendar      PFH    EAP Region
Semester    Year        Year   Estimated  Standard
I st                 1996         0          0
2nd       1997                    4           3
'Ist                 1997         9          3
2nd       1998                    21         6
1 st                 1998        33          14
2nd       1999                    41         22
11 st                1999        49         30
2nd       2000                    55         42
1st                  2000        62         50
2nd       2001                    68         62
1st                  2001        74         74
2nd       2002                    83         82
1st                  2002        91         86
2nd       2003                    95         94
1st                  2003        100        100
Disbursement Graph
1 0 0                                ......   ..............................
_5 . 0    . , ._'.'.A  ;..  .  .................... 2;,.
20   *...               .                          _
Fiscal Year



-151-                           Annex 13
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Background
1.          NCPFP set up a national level Project Steering Committee (PSC) and
Project Unit (PU) in January 1994. In addition, provincial level project units were also
established in the five first-phase provinces. The PSC and PU worked closely with the
Bank missions in project preparation and design, thus initiating the project management
structure at an early stage.
B.    Organization
2.    The central project management organization will have three layers:
*  a Ministerial level--Project Steering Committee (PSC);
* a Director level-- Executive Comrnittee (EC); and
* a working level--Project Management Unit (PMU).
3.           The SC will be chaired by the Chairman of the NCPFP, and its members
will consist of the Vice-Ministers of the Ministry of Planning and Investment (WPI),
Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) and Ministry of Health
(MOH). The EC will be composed of the eight department directors of NCPFP. In
addition, a Director will be assigned as a standing member of EC and will serve as full-
time Project Director.
Steering Committee
Chairman (NCPFP)
4 Members (MPI, SBV, MOF,
MOH)
Executive Committee
Chairman (NCPFP)
8 Directors of Line Departments of NCPFP
1 Standing Members as Project Director
Project Management Unit       Expert Task Force



-152 -                          Annex 13
4.           Under the Director, the PMU will have 15 staff, who will be assigned to
nine sections (the eighlt functional sections plus general adminstration). In addition, the
PMU will hire local consultants as needed to form task forces to assist project
management in special areas. These task forces will work directly under the leadership of
the central Project Director. The key staff positions identified in the NCPFP Project
Management Unit are those of Director, Task Manager, Lead Civil Works Officer, Lead
Procurement Officer And Lead Disbursement Officer. In the 15 project provinces,
provincial PUs will be established and which will consist of a Manager and three staff.
| Proj cManaginn UMat t NCPFP e
I r* Mffinager   a ng/Logitics(1)  ||Acccentng (1) |
C.    Functions & Operation
5.           The Steering Committee will be the highest level of decision-making
during project implementation. It will meet regularly every three months to discuss
various aspects of project supervision, and to make decisions on relevant policies and
strategies for proper project implementation. The main function of the SC will be to
foster coordination am.ong NCPFP and the other relevant agencies namely, MPI, MOF,
SBV, and MOH.
6.           The Executive Committee will play an important role in mobilizing the
policy and technical resources within NCPFP by involving the line departments in project
implementation. Each department would be assigned one component/sub-component, for
example, the IEC Department will be responsible for the dEC component, and the Family
Planning Coordination Department will be responsible forcthe  family health service
delivery component. Each Department will then be responsible for ensuring that the
project fits into the overall plan to meet national objectives and resolve any conflicts that
may arise between project and program goals and objectives. The EC will therefore meet
every month to review implementation during the course of the project.
7.           The horizontal coordination among all the line departments will be the
responsibility of the Project Director and the Project Management Unit under his
leadership. The PMU will prepare the annual working plan and progress report for review



-153 -                         Annex 13
by the SC and EC, prior to submission to the World Bank. The PMU will also conduct
the procurement of equipment and drugs, and maintain project accounts. The central
PMU will provide implementation guidance to provincial project management units.



-154-                                Annex 14
PROJECT MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
1.           Projects in the social sectors are often plagued by a lack of reliable baseline data as
well as weak monitoring and evaluation systems. Bank projects, in particular, have traditionally
focused on project inputs and accountability issues, rather than on project outputs and impact
indicators in terms of reductions in fertility, improvements in health status for individuals, or the
performance of the health services. This makes it impossible to assess the impact of the proposed
interventions on the population.
Current Status of Population and Demographic Statistics in Viet Nam
2.           The Government of Viet Nam has become increasingly aware of the need for
regular and reliable population and demographic statistics for formulating and monitoring its
population policies and for other development planning purposes. Two population and housing
censuses (in 1979 and in 1989) have been conducted since reunification in 1975. Another census
is planned for 1999. These censuses contain information on childbearing, childhood and adult
mortality, and other key indicators that we have selected for measuring the progress of the
project. Disaggregation to the province level and for specific sub-groups (ethnic minorities,
married women of reproductive age, etc.) of the population is possible for some of the indicators.
3.           The General Statistics Office (GSO) also prepares a time series of national and
sub-national population and demographic estimates for use by the Ministry of Planning and
Investment and other agencies. However, the range and detail of the estimates it currently
prepares is very limited, and is insufficient to meet the needs of the Population and Family Health
Project.
4.           Civil registration of births and deaths, which has its legal origins in a government
directive in 1961, takes place at the commune level. It is widely recognized, however, that there
is very severe under-registration of births and deaths, particularly in rural areas, as well as
frequently delayed registration. Registrars are unsure about their registration duties, and are
hampered by lack of training, lack of materials, and lack of incentive to perform these duties.
Large Survey Efforts
5.           The Viet Nam Demographic and Health Survey (VNDHS) was carried out in
1988, the first such assessment of demographic and health status since the implementation of
population and family planning programs in the early 1 960s. The nationally-representative sample
survey was carried out by the National Committee for Population and Family Planning (NCPFP),
with financial support from UNFPA. A total of 4,807 households and 4,172 eligible women aged
15 to 49 years old were interviewed to collect data on fertility, family planning, and a few
indicators of child and maternal health.



- 155 -                             Annex 14
6.           A second demographic survey was carried out more recently in 1994 by the
General Statistical Office (GSO), with financial support from UNFPA. The survey, the Vietnam
1994 Intercensal Demographic Survey, was conducted in order to update information on human
reproduction, infant and child mortality, contraceptive use, and maternal and child care. More
than 13,000 households and 10,490 ever-married women between the ages of 15 and 50 were
interviewed. Estimates are representative of the population at three levels: national, urban/rural,
and for seven geographical regions.
Status of Family Planning and Family Health Service Statistics
7.           Family planning and facility-related health statistics are also routinely collected at
various levels of the Vietnamese system. The organization and control of data collection and
compilation are highly decentralized and have their roots in some 10,000 communes, the lowest
level of administrative units Two streams of data processing occur in the system, which can be
simplified as follows. Firs1, the commune family-planning collaborator reports information on
acceptors, method mix, and other factors to the Commune Population and Family Planning Board
(CPFPB), where it is summarized and then sent in turn to the District (DCPFP), to the Province
(PCPFP), and to the National level (NCPFP). Second, the commune family-planning collaborator
reports the same information to the Commune Health Center (CHC), where it is combined with
other information on CHC ifacility usage (for family planning as well as other health concerns).
Data from mobile team efforts are also incorporated. These reports are compiled and sent in turn
to the district health services (DHS), provincial health bureau (PHB), and National (MOH) levels.
At the appropriate levels, infbrmation on services provided at polyclinics, provincial hospitals, and
other facilities is added in.
8.           A number of problems are evident with this system. The foundation of the data
collection system is the collaborator or CHC-level worker. Collaborators are generally unpaid
volunteers, with low or no levels of basic training and frequently only low levels of basic skills.
The CHC-level workers, while of higher qualification than the collaborators, are often lacking the
basic skills that are required for data collection and reporting.
9.           System inefficiencies are evident throughout the country. Data are almost entirely
manually compiled and processed at all stages, increasing the probability of introducing bias into
the statistics. Furthermore, since workers in both the NCPFP and the MOH stream are compiling
family-planning information, there is a duplication of effort. Given these constraints and in the
absence of a thorough evaluation of the service statistics, the data are of unknown but
questionable quality.
Evaluation of the Viet Nam Population and Family Health Project
10.         Given this background, the Viet Nam Population and Farnily Health Project will
implement four basic strategies to monitor and evaluate the Project.



-156 -                               Annex 14
Namely,
(a)    Conduct of three major surveys (baseline, mid-term review, and final evaluation)
for the purposes of project evaluation, particularly to measure the project impact
indicators which have been selected for the project.
(b)   Conduct of three major studies (baseline, mid-term review, and final evaluation)
also for the purposes of project evaluation. These studies will measure indicators
of project impact for components of family planning and family health that cannot
be readily measured using a population-based survey sample. These studies will
mostly require evaluation of particular components based on facility records.
(c)    Conduct of special surveys and studies to evaluate the special needs and
appropriate strategies for meeting those needs for the major ethnic minority
populations.
(d)   Management Information System (MIS) efforts. This will include strengthening
the use of computers for data gathering and analysis at national and provincial
levels, strengthening of managers' capacity for using information for planning,
prioritizing and monitoring population and family planning activities through
training availability of necessary resources at levels.
11.          The data sources which will be utilized to calculate a full matrix of input,
intermediate, and impact indicators have been selected for the Viet Nam Population and Family
Health Project for national, provincial, and lower levels. Within this matrix, ten key indicators
have been selected to measure project impact and achievement. In general, most of the key
indicators can be calculated from special surveys that have been planned at three points in the
project cycle. A few will require conduct of specialized studies of routinely-collected information
that is available from CHC's and from family planning workers. Strengthening of the MIS efforts
will facilitate this task.
Project Surveys
12.          Three major surveys will be implemented as part of the Viet Nam Population and
Family Health Project at various times in the project cycle. The first, to be conducted before
project activities begin, will provide baseline data. A mid-term review will occur towards the
middle of the project. A final evaluation of the project will be conducted at completion of the
project. The World Bank requires conduct of these three surveys as part of its agreement with the
Government of Viet Nam. The National Committee for Population and Family Planning (or an
agent thereof) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the survey, including sample
design, preparation of survey instruments, testing, training, field work, data processing, and



-157 -                              Annex 14
analysis. A written report on the major findings for each of the key indicators is required for each
of the surveys.
13.         All three surveys will be national-level, population-based sample surveys. Over-
sampling of the ethnic minoriity populations in the 15 Project provinces will be carried out. These
surveys will assess the family planning and family health status of the population, with particular
emphasis on the ten key indicators that have been selected for the Project.
14.         In addition to collecting data in order to calculate the key indicators, special
supplements to the three data collection efforts should address particular components of the
project. For instance, a module on knowledge, attitudes, and practice of contraception would
help to monitor and evaluate the IEC component of the project. A module on service delivery
would address whether contraceptives that are procured by the project ultimately reach women in
the villages.



At a bare minimum, the questionnaire must be designed such that the following data are collected
Data Required to Calculate                                                      Data Required to Cakulate the Denomrintor
Key lIdxter                                                                            the Numerator
1. Total fertility rate (TFR)              Total no od children ever born to women of various age groups in a given ti  fra.                                                    Total n  o women of reproductdve age (WRA) in
vaious age groups in a glvem time fran
2. Contrbceptve prevakce rate for modern    No. or women o reproductive age (WRA) wbo are currenty coutraceptlng (or whose partners are contrwceptng) using a modern frm of     Toal neo. oWRA In vriu age groups in a given
mothes (CPR-MM)                            coutraceptbon In a given time Irarn  Sbhold be calculated by method Ite.                           thm frame
3. Supply-basd Method Use as a             No. of WRA who are curi-enti. rnac.pt'ing ("g  -hose par ;--e;colptr" sg) using a  odern for  o tcontracepti  in a givenie           Total      WRA in vio s ao grops in a given
Percentage of Tota Contraceptive Use       frame, tabubted by method choke                                                                                                      tie trame wbo are cmro cmnstceptikg
(induding traditosa mehods).
4. Aess to Fas      b Planing Servies.     No. ofWRA who have acess to fami planning services as deined in a gtven time franm  This Indkator requires coLbecton of data Ins    TOt no, ofWRA In various ae groups ina given
specl serve deUvey nmodule Questions wilt Investate source  famiy planning servkes & suppUe, proxfimity of sevie, etc              time trame.
5. Met Need for Life-Saving Obstetric Car  To be based on facity reords. Cakulation will be performed for special studies at baselhnaeldd-term/fInalevaluat                    No. of live births In givn tm  fraen, adjtsstd by
15% fr stillbirths & abortlm co plctInzIs.
6. Total abortion rate                     Total no. of abortions to womet of various age groups in a gtven Utme frame.                                                        Total n  o dWRA tn varius age groups In a given n_
0:)
tine frame.
7. Percntage of pregnant women attnded     No of pregnant women wbo wre seen at a CHC In past 5 years for reasons related to their pregnandes. This indkator requies cecion of  No. of live births tns agven tism frame, adjusted
at las t once for pregnancy at the CHC-    data in a specl 'prenatal care' module Questions will Investigate whether women bad received prenatal care, the provider of prenatal care  upwards by 25% to account for stillbirths &
level                                      servkes. & the no of prenatal care visht.                                                                                           abortions.
B. Infant mortality rat                    The no. of deaths of infants under I year of age Dataonchildhood deaths, by single years of age, should also he collcted. Evaluation of the  No. of live births ina given year.
data should consider whether IMRs are under-estimated as a result of age heaping of Infant deaths to age 1.
9. Proportion Of one-year-olds who were    No. of children In a given year who are currently exac aged I who were given all S doses of 6 kinds of vaccine In the previous year.  No of children in s given year who are currently
fuly Imunized as infants.                  Calculation wll be performed for a speCial stUdy at baselnerimld-terni/final evaluation based on facUlty records,                   exact aged 1.
10. Management infornation score.          Calculation of this score will be performed for special studies at baseline/mld-term/ftnal review (or more frequentiy) based on records that are avaiable in the centeal offces of the National Committee
for Popultion and Family Planning.
.D
1. Seec Annex Tablc P (Performance Indi cators for the Viet Nam Population and Family Hcalth Proj ect) for a morc complete d iscussion of the requirrments to calculate each of the kcy indircators.



- 159 -                             Annex 14
Special Studies
15.         A few of the key indicators cannot be based on a population-based survey, and will
require the conduct of special studies. Two of the studies will require analysis of facility records
in order to calculate the key indicators: (1) met need for life-saving obstetric care, and, (2)
proportion of one-year-olds who were fully immunized as infants. For these two studies, sections
emphasizing the characteristlics of the major ethnic minority populations will be included. A third
indicator, the management information score, will investigate whether 18 items of data which is
relevant for management is available at the central offices of the National Committee for
Population and Family Planning.
16.         The special studies will be conducted at three time points during the project cycle:
baseline, mid-term, and finaLl evaluation. The National Committee for Population and Family
Planning (or an agent thereof) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the studies,
including study design, preparation of reporting instruments, training, field work, data compilation
and processing, and analysis. A written report on the major findings for each of the key indicators
is required for each of the studies.
Special Surveys and Studiies to Address the Population and Family Health Needs of the
Major Ethnic Minority Polpulations
17.         With the exception of the Han, all of the major ethnic groups in Viet Nam are
known to be demographically disadvantaged relative to the Kinh, with higher rates of both fertility
and infant mortality. Little information exists, however, to understand the underlying reasons for
their disadvantage.
18.         The ten major ethnic minority populations will be over-sampled in the survey
instruments and special studies that have already been described to calculate the key indicators.
Additional participatory studies, to be conducted among each of the ten groups, will address their
special population and family health needs. These assessments will be conducted using focus-
group methodology among various sub-groups of the ethnic minority populations, including
women of reproductive age, men of reproductive age, adolescents, grand-mothers, traditional
birth attendants or others found to be important to decision-making processes in family health.
19.         Topics to be addressed will include, but are not limited to, the following issues:
(a)   Beneficiary-needs assessments: These special studies will allow members of the
ethnic minorilties to communicate what population and family health needs they
have that could reasonably be expected to be fulfilled during the project.



-160 -                              Annex 14
(b)   Knowledge,, attitudes, and practice of family planning:   Contradictory
impressions exist regarding the acceptability of family planning services in Viet
Nam. The iCommittee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas (CEMMA)
suggests that the issue of family planning can be sensitive to certain ethnic groups
since they do not want to adopt any practice that may jeopardize their cultural
identity and preservation as a distinct ethnic group.  In contrast, preliminary
studies suggest that non-use may simply reflect lack of accessibility and poor
method mix.
(c)    Care during pregnancy and delivery: In order to gain a fuller understanding of
pregnancy- and delivery-care, special focus group studies should be conducted
with pregnant women, new mothers, traditional birth attendants, and relevant
family members. Questions should solicit information on the dietary practices of
pregnant ancl breastfeeding women, supplementation (if any) with vitamins, work
habits, traditional practices and beliefs, practices in the event of an obstetric
emergency, transportation options, etc.
(d)   Family healith care:  Suggested topics for this component include traditional
practices for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases (including
malaria), imrnunization practices, the use of traditional healers, and the reasons for
non-use of CHCs.
Management Information System
20.          An information system will be developed to support strategic planning activities at
national and provincial levels, operational activities at commune level and a coordinating function
at the district level. In order to achieve this, the project would support hardware and software at
national and provincial levels, training in appropriate MIS skills for staff at commune, district,
provincial, and national levels, and foreign and local technical assistance for setting up the MIS.
Given that the development of the MIS system is at an early stage, calculation of the key
indicators will not be dependent upon the system.
Supervision Reporting and Arrangements
Supervision Reports
21.          The Project Management Unit in NCPFP will submit six-monthly progress reports
to IDA, beginning six months after the date of effectiveness and every six months thereafter. An
indicative outline of the structure and contents of the report format follows; the full detailed
format, including dummy tables, will be prepared by the PMU prior to the first IDA supervision



- 161 -                            Annex 14
mission and agreed upon on a trial basis. The format will then be re-evaluated during the next
supervision mission, when the first report has been submitted, and finalized.
Population and Family Health Project
Six-Monthly Implementatiion Progress Report
For June - December 1996
(a)   Executive Summary: This section would provide a brief summary overview of
project progress within the previous six months, including:
-     summary of project activities
-     financial status
-     project successes/achievements
-     problems encountered and suggested action
-     major issues requiring to be addressed
(b)   Project Activities During Previous Six Months: This section would provide a
description of the major activities carried out during the previous six months, with
accompanying tables showing progress relative to targets/plans for the period and
to   total   project  targets/plans   (e.g.   civil   works   completed,
equipment/drugs/contraceptives procured, training activities completed, IEC
activities undertaken, models/studies underway etc.). Results of any surveys,
studies, or evaluative activities which became available during the period should be
briefly described.
Any major achievements or successes during the previous six months should be
highlighted. Any problems or delays should be described and explained, together
with proposed remedial action.
(c)   Planned Activities for Next Six Months:  This section would provide a
description cf activities planned to be completed during the following six months,
with accompanying tables showing the relationship of the planned activities to
project targets/plans.
(d)   Budget and Financial Status: This section would lay out progress in project
expenditure (by component, sub-component and activity) during the previous six
months relative to amounts budgeted
for that period and the overall project cost tables. Explanations for over-spending
or under-spending should be provided. Progress on claims, reimbursement and



- 162-                             Annex 14
audits would also be described, with comments provided on any delays or
problems encountered and suggested remedial action.
(e)   Project Management Status: This section would describe problems or issues
relating to project management, if any. together with suggested remedial action.
(f)    Key Indicators: This section would provide available information on trends in
key indicators, relative to project goals, accompanied by appropriate comments.
(g)   Status of Covenants: This section would provide information on the status of
compliance with. project agreements, using the following table format.
(h)   Major Issues: This section would provide an analytical description of all major
issues in project implementation arising in any of the aspects listed above. It would
also lay out for discussion the suggested actions for addressing them on the part of
both Government and IDA together with its co-financers.



-163 -                                      Annex 14
Compliance with Covenants
SAR         Type of    Status      Original       Revised     Description of Covenant              Comment
Para.       Covenant                Date          Date
Para 4.7                                                      audits of project-related records and
accounts, will be undertaken in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, and audited accounts and
financial statements, in a format
agreed with IDA, and including
separate audits of Statements of
Expenditures, will be sent to IDA
within nine months of the end of each
Government fiscal year;
Para. 4.15                          12/31/96                  six-monthly project progress reports
will be submitted to IDA by June 30
and December 31 of each year,
beginning     December       1996,
substantially in accordance with the
format laid out in Annex 14;.
Para. 2.7                                                     the key  indicators and  objectives
listed in para. 2.6-2.7 and the matrix
of indicators shown in Annex 4 will
be used to measure, monitor and
evaluate implementation progress and
_____ ____   ___ ____ _  __ ____ _  _____project impact;
Para.2.7                            06/30/97                  baseline   surveys   and   studies
substantially in accordance with the
outline given in Annex 14 will be
carried out, and their results used to
complete the list of key project
objectives as described in para. 2.7,
by June 30, 1997;
Para. 4.17                         08/31/99 &                 a project mid-term  review  report
12/31/99                  substantially in accordance with the
outline given in Annex 14 will be
provided to IDA by August 31, 1999
and reviewed with IDA by December
_____ ____  _____ ___  _ ____ _  _______31,   1999;



-164-                                      Annex 14
Para. 4.15                         08/31/96                   the project work program and budget
for the next fiscal year will be
provided to IDA for review and
comments by August 31 of each year,
beginning 1996, and the work
program   will  be   subsequently
implemented in a manner satisfactory
to IDA;
Para. 2.12                                                    all CHCs, DHCs and MCH/FP centers
in  the   15  provinces  will  be
appropriately staffed and all CHCs
will be provided with adequate
_________  funding to pay staff salaries;
Para. 2.12                                                   the selection of CHCs to receive
facility upgrading will be carried out
according to criteria agreed with IDA
and substantially in accordance with
those laid out in Annex 5;
Para. 2.13                                                    all CHCs, DHCs  and  MCH/FP
facilities upgraded under the project
will be adequately maintained during
project implementation according to
the guidelines specified in Annex 5;
Para. 2.25                         06/30/99                  (a) a pilot scheme of charges for
08/31/99                  contraceptives will be carried out by
June 30, 1999; (b) an action plan will
be prepared on the basis of its results
by August 31, 1999 for review and
comment by IDA; and (c) the action
plan will thereafter be promptly
carried out;
Para. 2.24                         08/31/96                   detailed proposals for all activities to
be financed under the service
delivery model initiatives component
will be submitted through a Service
Delivery     Model      Initiatives
Committee to be established by
August 31, 1996 and described in
Annex 10, to IDA for prior review
and approval, and thereafter will be
.________   ____ ____ ________ ___ ____ _implemented  as approved by  IDA;



-165 -                                         Annex 14
Para. 2.15                                                         in the event that the pilot test of a
strengthened       community-based
outreach system for family planning
and family health described in Annex
11 is evaluated as successful, an
action plan for its implementation
will be submitted to IDA for
approval,   and   then   will   be
implemented as approved in the
project provinces;
Para. 4.1                                                          the project management structure as
laid out in Annex 13 will be
established, staffed and maintained
throughout        the        project
implementation priod;
Para. 4.4                                                          all necessary steps will be taken to
ensure that each of the project
provinces implements its activities
under the project and is provided,
promptly as needed, the funds
facilities, services and other resources
__________   _________   ________  required  for that purpose;
Para. 4.26                                                         the project will be carried out in
accordance    with    a    strategy
satisfactory to IDA, which will: (a)
be designed on the basis of studies
and surveys undertaken by qualified
and expereinced experts under terms
of reference and timing satisfactory
to IDA; and (b) include provisions
for the informed participation of and
consultation with a variety of
representative communities benefit-
ing under the project, in particular
communities with ethnic minorities,
to ensure that the design and
implementation   of  the   project
adequately addresses the needs and
cultural   preferences   of   such
communities;
Para. 4.12                                                         an   Implementation    Completion
Report, based in part on the results of
the final evaluative surveys and
studies, will be provided and
discussed with IDA within six
months after the closing date of the
_______ ___  __ ______   _____ _  ___________project;



-166 -                                   Annex 14
Para. 2.26                       06/30/96                 a time-bound action plan for all
training activities under the project
will be provided to IDA for review
and comments by June 30, 1996; and
Para. 2.12                       09/30/96                 Government would fmrnish to IDA
by September 30, 1996, and have
an exchange of views with IDA, on
a comprehensive description of the
policy    and    implementation
guidelines it will employ to ensure
the effective implementation of: (i)
cost recovery with respect to the
essential drugs to be provided by
the project in those communes of
project    provinces      where
applicable; and (ii) providing
essential drugs and supplies free of
charge in mountainous and remote
communes in project provinces.
The policy and implementation
guidelines would be reviewed by
the Government and IDA each
year thereafter and would be an
explicit focus of the mid-term
review;
Para. 3.20                                                as a condition of disbursement for
allowances for outreach workers
under the strengthened collaborator
system, an action plan, satisfactory to
IDA,   for  implementing   the
strengthened system on the basis of
the results of the pilot test will be
______ __  __ ______ _____ _  _________provided  to  IDA.



- 167 -                              Annex 14
Supervision Arran2ements
22.          Supervision missions will normally be scheduled to take place at six-monthly
intervals, beginning with the project launch mission shortly after effectiveness. To the extent
possible, they would be coordinated to coincide with the production of the six-monthly progress
reports. Every effort would be made to coordinate mission timing with ADB and KfW supervision
visits, so that joint supervision would be maximised. Additional supervision missions would be
scheduled to resolve any special issues or needs.
23           The core staffing of regular supervision mission would normally comprise:
the Task Manager
a public healith or family planning specialist
an architect (for the first half of the project)
To these would be added fi-om time to time, as needed or convenient, specialists as follows:
-     training
-      lEC
-     MIS
-     management
-     logistics/pharmaceuticals
-     monitoring/evaluation/data collection
-     ethnic minority issues
-     economics/Financial matters
-     procuremernt
-     disbursement/flows of funds/audits
-     social marketing
-     any other specialities required
The initial aim would be to have a supervision mission from each type of specialist at least once
during the first half of the project. Priorities for the second half of the project would be reviewed
after the project Mid-term Review. A full dated indicative supervision mission plan follows:



-168 -                                        Annex 14
Basic Sunervision Mission Plan
Date                              Type of Mission                     Composition
June 1995                         Project Launch                      Task Manager
Architect
Public Health Specialist
IEC Specialist
Procurement Specialist
December 1995                    Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
Architect
Public Health Specialist
Training Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
June 1996                        Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
Architect
FP Specialist
Training Specialist
December 1996                     Regular Supervision                 Task Manager
Architect
MIS Specialist
Management Specialist
June 1997                         Regular Supervision                 Task Manager
Architect
FP Specialist
M+E Specialist
December 1997                     Regular Supervision                 Task Manager
Architect
Public Health Specialist
Logistics/Pharmaceutical Specialist
June 1998                         Regular Supervision                 Task Manager
Architect
FP Specialist
EEC/Social Marketing Specialist
December 1998                    Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
Architect
FP Specialist
Ethnic Minority Specialist
June 1999                         Regular Supervision                 Task Manager
Architect
M + E Specialist
Public Health Specialist



-169 -                                        Annex 14
Basic Supervision Mission Plan (Continued)
Date                              Type of Mission                      Composition
December 1999                     Mid-Term Review                      Task Manager
Architect
M + E Specialist
EconomistlFinancial Specialist
FP Specialist
MJS/Management Specialist
June 2000                         Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
FP Specialist
IECScial t Specialist
December 2000                     Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
FP Specialist
EC/Social Marketing Specialist
June 2001                         Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
FP Specialist
Ethnic Minority Specialist
December 2001                     Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
FP Specialist
IEC Specialist
M + E Specialist
June 2002                         Regular Supervision                  Task Manager
FP Specialist
Economist
December 2002                     Project Completion                   Task Manager
FP Specialist
M + E Specialist
Economist
Management Specialist



- 170-                          Annex 15
SPECLUL STRATEGIES FOR ETHNIC MINORITIES
1.          The Demography of Ethnic Minorities in Viet Nam: The major source
of data on the demography of ethnic minorities in Viet Nam is the 1989 census. Tables
A. 16.1 and A. 16.2 and Map No. IBRD 27338 summarise a few key features, including the
percentage of ethnic minorities in each province and the total population, estimated total
fertility rate and estimated infant mortality rate for the major ethnic groups in 1989.
Table A.16.1
Percent of Population Belonging to Ethnic Minorities in 1989 in
Viet Nam, by Province
Province               Minority        Province               % Minori
1. Cao Bang              95.7      =   23. Quang Tri               8.0
2. Lang Son              84.6           24. Dong Nai               7.7
3. Son La                81.9       _   25. Minh Hai               6.8
4. Lai Chau              80.5           26. Ha Bac                 6.4
5. Ha Tuyen              67.0           27. An Giang               5.7
6. Hoang Lien Son        54.8           28. Phu Yen                4.5
7. Gia Lai-Kon Tum       50.6           29. Khanh Hoa              4.5
8. Bac Thai              31.6           30. Quang Nam-Da           4.2
9. Dac Lac               29.5           31. Thua Thien-Hue         3.3
10. Ha Son Binh          24.9           32. Binh Dinh              1.9
11. Lam Dong             23.6           33. Vung Tau-Con Dao       1.8
12. Hau Giang            16.1           34. Quang Binh             1.6
13. CuuLong              15.7           35. TayNinh                1.6
14. Thanh Hoa            15.2           36. Ha Noi City            1.0
15. Kien Giang           15.1           37. Ben Tre                0.6
16. Thuan Hai            11.8           38. Tien Giang             0.6
17. Ho Chi Minh City     11.3           39. Ha Nam                 0.4
18. Quang Ngai           10.8           40. Dong Thap              0.4
19. Quang Ninh           10.7           41. Long An                0.3
20. Vinh Phu              9.4           42. Hai Phong City         0.2
21. Song Be               9.3           43. Hai Hung               0.2
22. Nghe Tinh             8.2           44. Thai Binh              0.0



- 171 -                        Annex 15
Source: Calculated from: Viet Nam, 1991. Viet Nam Population Census, 1989.
Completed Census Results, Volume 1, Ha Noi: Central Census Steering Committee.
Page 61.
2.          There is huge variation by province in the proportion of ethnic minority
groups among total provincial populations. Broadly speaking, the non-Kinh groups form
only a small minority in most lowland and delta provinces, but make up 50-80 percent of
the population in mountainous provinces. Several provinces have been subdivided since
1989, so estimation for those affected is difficult, but roughly speaking, ethnic minorities
constitute 50-80 percent of the population in three of the 15 provinces covered under
Component I of the project (Lau Cai, Lai Chau, Tuyen Quang, all in the northern
highlands), 15-30 percent in another six (Bac Thai, Dac Lac, Lam Dong, Kien Giang, Tra
Vinh, Thanh Hoa, almost all including mountainous regions), and less than four percent in
the remaining six (Hai Hung, Hai Phong, Nam Ha, Thua Thien Hue, Dong Thap, Vinh
Long, all delta or coastal).
Table A.16.2
Demographic Characteristics of the Major Ethnic Minority
Populations, in Viet Nam in 19891
Ethnic Group         Population        TFR             IMR
(Millions)
Kinh                55.9            3.6             39
Tay                 1.2            4.3              51
Thai                1.0             5.7             59
Hao (Han)              0.9            2.9              31
Kho-me               0.9             5.3              72
Muong                0.9             4.4             41
Nung                0.7             5.1              67
H'mong               0.6             9.3             106
Dao                 0.5            6.9              82
Gia-rai              0.2             5.5             98
Others               1.3             7.7             92



- 172-                           Annex 15
3.           Clearly all the ethnic minority groups except the Han are demographically
disadvantaged relative to the Kinh, with higher fertility and infant mortality. The Tay and
the Muong are not too far behind in either respect, but the other groups all show TFRs of
over 5 and IMRs 20 to 70 points higher. The H'mong, the Gia-rai and the Dao stand out
as particularly disadvantaged in either or both fertility and infant mortality levels.
4.           Findings; of the Baseline Survey Exercise:  Most ethnic groups are
known from census and survey data to be poor, ill-educated and isolated. It is therefore
hardly surprising that thieir demographic profile is unfavourable. However the proximate
determinants of their fertility and mortality levels and patterns have been little studied. A
first step in the design of any special strategy is therefore a set of baseline surveys and
participative baseline studies (see Annex 14). A model exercise of this kind was conducted
as part of project preparation in Dac Lac province.
5.           The major findings of the participative studies conducted in Dac Lac
among a number of minority groups were as follows:
(a)   family planning, modem contraception and modern health care appear to be
very acceptable to minority women, couples and communities
(b)   Government and health workers are not always in touch with community
attitudes and interests in the health and family planning sectors and
communications between program staff and communities need to be
improved
(c)   there is considerable unsatisfied demand for temporary methods of
contraception in many minority communities, particularly pills and
injectables
(d)   health facilities in minority areas were often dilapidated and poorly
equipped and supplied
(e)   there is a severe deficiency of good-quality IEC materials and activities in
minority communes
(f)   there is a large reservoir of interested and motivated minority community
members who could be tapped for extension, outreach or community-based
distribution work for family planning and health
(g)   there is a need for refresher training for health and FP staff, particularly for
family planning, with emphasis on counselling skills and up-to-date
knowledge of modern contraceptive methods



-173 -                          Annex 15
(h)   there is a need to develop new and specialised approaches to the provision
of healt]h and family planning services in minority areas, with the emphasis
on recnritment and specialised training programs for minority community-
based workers.
6.          In line with the above, field observations in Lau Cai during project
preparation identified the following major problems in the delivery of primary health care
and family planning in remote mountainous areas:
(a)   long travel distances between villages and CHCs, resulting in low
utilisation of CHCs and heavy dependence on DHC mobile teams to
provide services
(b)   serious understaffling of CHCs, with many empty facilities used only as
premises for visiting DHC teams
(c)   serious shortages of minority health workers, due to low educational levels
among rninority groups
(d)   low skill levels among minority health workers, for the same reason
7.           Outline of a Special Strategy for Health and FP Service Delivery in
Remote Minority Areas: Based on the above findings, plus available information from
other sources, the outline of a set of special strategies for delivery of health and family
planning services in minority areas that are remote and mountainous, and hence isolated
and underserved at the present moment, has been developed for introduction and testing
under the project. Details will be refined on the basis of the full findings from the baseline
surveys and studies to be conducted as a first step, but a preliminary set of possible
interventions has been identified. Its principal approach is to adapt the standard Viet Nam
model of service delivery to the special needs of remote areas and minority cultures by
upgrading, strengthening and expanding outreach, access and community-level or
community-based services and promotive activities. Major features are as follows:
(a)   Adaptation of the CHC Model for Remote Mountainous Areas: Since
larger in-patient CHC facilities which can do deliveries will not be utilised
in remote mountainous areas, only small outpatient facilities will be
provided in such areas under Component I of the project (as well as under
the National Health Support Project).
(b)   Establishment of Health Posts: A model health post system would be
tested under Component 5 in 60 communes in remote mountainous areas in



-174 -                          Annex 15
the 15 project provinces, and expanded under Component I to all such
areas in the 15 project provinces if successful. For a commune to be
eligible for coverage by the system, it must fulfil the following criteria:
(i)   the CHC must have at least 3 health staff
(ii)  the CHC must be at least 4 hours walking distance from the
nearest DHC
(iii)  there must be strong commitment from the Provincial
People's Committee
A health post would be set up in one village in each commune. It would
consist of two small rooms, one of which would be a consultation
room/office and the other a bedroom. Basic furniture, medical equipment, a
selection of essential drugs, and a bicycle for household visiting would be
supplied. The health post would be staffed by one of the CHC health
workers, on either a rotational basis or as a permanent assignment,
according to the choice of the workers. The health worker in residence
would provide basic IEC and services for MCH/FP, including the
distribution of appropriate contraceptives and some minor curative care. In
the separate new collaborator (family health worker) system to be also
tested (see below) the health post could be staffed by the new family health
worker.
(c)   Establishment of Family Health Workers: Remote mountainous areas
and minority areas would participate in the new collaborator (renamed
family health worker) model system to be tested under Component 5 and
extended to cover the 15 project provinces if successful under Component
1; out of the total 45 communes selected for testing, 22 would be in remote
mountainous areas and another 5 in midland and mountainous areas that
are not considered remote. In remote areas, 7 full-time family health
workers would be recruited per commune (compared to 3 in delta
communes and 5 in the midland/mountainous areas) and each would be
given a bicycle to facilitate household visiting. If both the health post and
the family health worker systems are successful, the health posts could be
staffed by family health workers as an alternative to CHC staff.
(d)   Additional Transport for DHC Outreach: Under Component 1, DHCs
in remote mountainous areas would be provided with extra motorcycles
(and in thie Mekong delta, motor boats) in order to enhance their outreach
capabilities. The vehicles would be used by the DHC mobile teams for EPI,
FP and control of endemic diseases. The project would also finance



-175 -                          Annex 15
maintenance and operating costs for the vehicles. The impact of this
additional transport would be evaluated at the end of the project and
continued under regular health/FP budgets if judged essential to full
functioning of the DHC mobile teams.
(e)   Special Training Strategy for Remote Mountainous Areas: Because of
the lack of local minority candidates with adequate minimum educational
qualificaltions (completion of high school), health staff in these areas are at
least 80 percent Kinh. Even so, there is an acute shortage of CHC health
workers, with more than 50 percent of the approximately 500 communes in
the remcte mountainous areas of the 15 project provinces currently lacking
any resident CHC staff. Such CHCs must be staffed by a seconded DHC
worker. Skills of minority health workers, where they exist, also often need
improveiment. Thus special strategies for pre-service and in-service training
will be implemented in the 15 project provinces in order to both increase
minority worker numbers and upgrade skills of existing minority staff, as
follows:
(i)   Pre-Service Special Training: About 300 minority health workers
with below-standard educational qualifications would be recruited
and employed by the local CPFPB, and trained as "family health
workers" to serve in CHCs. They would receive a short basic on-
the-job training course of about one month at the local DCH, plus
two supplementary courses of the same length to follow later once
the workers were in service. In addition, they would receive in-
service refresher training of 2 days every 4 months at the local
DHC. Those who showed promise could later take the regular
primary midwife pre-service course at the provincial secondary
medical school and then be upgraded to the level of primary
midwife.
(ii)   In-Service Special Training: Frequent refresher training would be
provided to the approximately 500 minority workers stationed in
'CHCs in the remote mountainous areas, in order to upgrade and
maintain their skills. The training schedule would comprise four
short courses per year of about two days each at the local DHC.
(iii)  Special Training Methodologies: All the in-service and pre-
service training described above would take place at the DHC in
order to facilitate attendance. DHCs would be provided with the
necessary teaching aids. Training methodology and materials would
be adapted to lower educational levels through: an emphasis on



- 176-                          Annex 15
practical skills and demonstration models; heavy use of pictorial
materials; translation of training materials into local minority
languages; and special training of DHC trainers in the use of these
special methodologies and materials.
A reference manual adapted to this modified training approach will be
developed and provided to all minority CHC workers (including family
planning workers) in remote mountainous areas throughout the country,
except for the National Health Support Project provinces where it would
be provided under that project's financing.
(g)   Special Family Planning Approach for Minority Groups: The project
as a whole responds to the findings above through support of increased
access to and promotion of modem temporary methods such as pills and
injectables, as well as improved models of IUD. However, special
approaches will be designed and implemented to adapt family planning
services to the particular conditions, needs and preferences of minority
communities. This will be done after the results of the baseline surveys and
studies are available for guidance, and will be based on them. It is expected
that these special approaches will include:
(i)   emphasis on promotion and provision of modem  temporary
methods
(ii)   custom-designed and high-quality IEC programs and materials for
at least the largest minority groups
(iii)  particular attention to counselling, community participation and
community-based activities and programs.



- 177-                             Annex 16
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS
A.    Estimated Project Costs
1     .      Estimated base costs for the project amount to around US$110 million and
total costs to around IJS$130 million. Recurrent costs in the project budget make up
about US$14 million (11 percent) of the project budget, or an annual amount of around
US$2 million. However some of these recurrent costs are tied to specific investments or
activities limited to the project period (such as travel, supplies and communications costs
for project management and the refresher training part of the upgrading package for the 15
project provinces) and will not enter into the sustainability analysis. Conversely, some
project costs categorised as investment costs, namely drugs & medical supplies and
contraceptive commodities, will in fact require sustaining after the life of the project.
Allowances for commtnity-based outreach workers (family health workers) in the 15
project provinces, under the strengthened collaborator system to be first piloted in the
initial 2 years of the project under funding from Component 5, are not included in this
category, since the success of the pilot, and hence the need to provide these allowances,
are quite uncertain at this point.
2.           The costs that will be taken account of in this analysis are:
(a)    maintenance costs for facilities upgraded and equipment purchased
under the project, amounting to an average annual sum of
uS$900,000
(b)   annual essential drug & medical supplies, amounting to an average
annual sum of US$ 2.1 million for the 15 project provinces
(c)   logistics costs for essential drug & medical supplies, calciulated as
7.5 percent of the costs of the commodities
(d)   annual contraceptive commodity supplies, excluding condoms (see
below for estimated costs from various aspects
(e)   logistics costs for contraceptive supplies, calculated as 7.5 percent
of the costs of the commodities
3.           Of total, maintenance costs, half will be held against the national health
budget and half against the national population/FP budget, on the assumption that a large
proportion of services provided by the facilities are related to family planning, and that this
will be reflected in some manner in the annual responsibility contracts made by NCPFP



- 178-                           Annex 16
with the health system to deliver FP services. Drug & medical supplies costs, with
accompanying logistics costs, will be held against the national health budget; and
contraceptive commodity costs, with accompanying logistics costs, will be held against the
national population/FP budget.
4.          National Contraceptives  Supply: Total costs  for contraceptive
commodities are to be financed under the project for the four years 1997-2002. These
commodities exclude condoms but are otherwise projected to cover 100 percent of the
country's needs for those years. A small reserve fund for emergency needs in the last years
of the project is also included. The total including logistics costs comes to around US$25
million.
5.          Total annual national costs for contraceptive commodities, excluding
condoms, are projected to rise during the life of the project from a current level of around
US$3 million to around US$7.5 million in 2002 ( including logistics costs). This rise is
expected to occur through a combination of increasing contraceptive prevalence rates,
higher percentages of users relying on more commodity-intensive short-term methods such
as the pill and injectables., and growing numbers of women of reproductive age due to past
high population growth. The project is assumed to contribute heavily to the first two of
these three trends. Thus it would be fair -- and conservative for the purposes of this
analysis -- to consider the increase of US$4.5 million in annual contraceptive costs
(including logistics) as the recurrent cost burden generated by the project.
6.          Drug andl Medical Supplies for the 15 Project Provinces: Total costs of
US$15 million have been budgeted under the project to finance essential drugs and
medical supplies for the 1 5 project provinces. This amounts to an annual recurrent cost of
US$2.1 million which will have to be financed out of the regular health budget after the
project has closed. Addlitional logistics costs could amount to US$150,000, making a
total annual recurrent cost burden of US$2.25 million.
B.    Projected National Budgets
7.          Populatiorn/FP Budget: Domestic population/FP funding largely flows
through the national budget of the NCPFP, which in 1994 reached about 228 billion dong
or around US$23 million. Provincial budget funding amounted to about 23 billion dong, or
around 10 percent of central spending, though funding at lower levels is difficult to track.
Altogether, total Government spending on population and family planning in 1994 may
have amounted to somewhat over 251 billion dong, or US$25 million.
8.          According to NCPFP sources, the national budget in 1995 amounts to 245
billion dong (excluding spending on basic construction which is financed through another
channel). Projections for future years are as follows:



- 179-                           Annex 16
Year        Billions           Millions
of Dong           US$
1996         456               45.6
1997        467                46.7
1998        468                46.8
1999        488                48.8
2000         500               50.0
This projection indicates that after the 86 percent increase from 1995 to 1996, NCPFP's
budget would remain fairly static. It is based on the premise that spending on
population/FP should reach a level of US$0.6 by the year 2000, the goal which has been
approved by the Prime Minister. If the budget were to remain static in real terms, it might
increase to around US$58 million by the year 2002.
9.          According to MOH projections, the total national health budget for the
year 2002 will reach 12,625 billion dong, or US$1.26 billion. If a more conservative
projection is followed of an annual growth rate of only 8 percent, the 2002 health budget
would amount to 4,205 billion dong, or US$420 million. This more conservative
assumption will be adopted for this analysis.
C.    Recurrent Cost Implications
10.         Implications for the National Population/FP Budget: The annual
recurrent cost burden on the national population/FP budget generated by the project will
amount to around US$4.5 million for contraceptive commodities plus logistics costs.
Maintenance costs would add another US$ just under 450,000, making up US$5 million in
total. This would amount to about 8.5% of the projected population/FP budget for 2002,
a significant but sustainable amount.
11.         Taking a wider perspective, however, it makes sense to assess the entire
annual contraceptive coimmodity burden that would require to be financed at the end of
the project. As mentioned above, this is projected at US$7.5 million, exclulding condoms,
by 2002. Thus, contraceptive commodity and logistic costs alone would amount to
around 13 percent of the projected 2002 total budget.
12.         This scale of resource allocation for contraceptive supplies is not excessive
by the standards of family planning programs worldwide and therefore should be
sustainable by the Government of Viet Nam even if all these supplies were to be financed
by Government itself and provided free of charge through public programs. In fact, a
proportion of users already obtain their contraceptive supplies from the private sector and
the importance of bot:h the private sector and social marketing is likely to grow



-180 -                            Annex 16
substantially during the life of the project. A program of charges for public program users
is also planned to be introduced during the second half of the project. It is moreover very
likely that donor suppo:rt to contraceptive supplies would continue to be significant after
the year 2000, outside the umbrella of the project itself The sustainability of the expanded
contraceptive costs should therefore present no major problems.
13.         Implications for the National Health Budget: The annual recurrent cost
burden on the national health budget generated by the project will amount to around
US$2.7 million, made up of US$2.25 million for drugs and medical supplies, and
US$450,000 for maintenance. This would amount to 0.64 percent of a conservative
projection of the national health budget for 2002, which is a negligible amount.
14.         Incremental costs on this scale should not by themselves be difficult to
sustain. However, again it makes sense to adopt a broader perspective, and consider the
additional impact of the National Health Support Project and any further extension of
upgrading packages throughout the country. The National Health Support Project would
provide a similar upgrading package over the same period to another 15 provinces, raising
total coverage to more than half the country. However the two projects together would
still only raise incremental recurrent costs for the 30 provinces together to around US$5.4
million or less than 1.5 percent of the national health budget.
15.         Taking a still wider view, if the provincial upgrading package should
succeed in improving service quality and utilisation, Government might perhaps consider a
similar upgrading program in the country's remaining provinces. At most, however, the
additional recurrent cost burden from a similar investment program in the rest of the
country would about double that generated by the two projects. Thus annual costs of
essential drugs and maintenance of upgraded facilities and equipment for CHCs and DHCs
for the entire country would consume only around 3 percent of the national health budget.
It does not appear, therefore, that the upgrading of Viet Nam's PHC services could create
any major problem of sustainability.



-181-                           Annex 17
OUTLINE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
1.    The "Implementation Volume" is a follow-up document to the Staff Appraisal
Report. It is intended to serve as a detailed guide to day-to-day implementation of the
project and will be prepared in its final form by the NCPFP itself between negotiations and
project effectiveness. An "implementation volume" consists basically of a compilation of
all usefiul background maLterials put together in the course of project preparation, together
with a summary time-bound implementation plan for the entire project and detailed time-
bound annual implementation plans for at least the first year or two of activities. It is
better viewed not as a single document, but as a set of files containing all necessary
reference materials as well as a basic blueprint for implementation planning.
2.    What follows is an indicative outline of the contents of the Implementation
Volume, for use as a guide to its preparation.
The Summary Implementation Plan for the Project
3.    The core of this implementation plan would be a timetable of major project
activities, along the lines of a Gantt chart, Pert chart or Computerized Project
Management chart. For the summary plan, time need only be shown in blocks of months,
say quarters of a year, and activities in each component of the project can be summarized
in broad categories. This plan timetable should be kept permanently on the Project
Management Unit's computer system and updated continuously by management and MIS
staff. Print-outs could then be produced at regular intervals, say every six months, for
information and use by other project staff. To supplement the timetable, a text would be
added describing the major features of the plan, together with any notes needed on details
of its content.
4.    The Implementation Volume itself would contain only the first plan timetable and
text produced at the beginning of the project, which would set the format to be used. An
indicative example follows. The latest print-out would then be included in each six-
monthly progress report submitted to IDA (see Annex 14).
The Detailed Annual Implementation Plans
5.    The core of the annual implementation plan would be a set of timetables for each
year of the project, covering all activities planned under each component of the project,
again in the form of a Gaantt chart, Pert chart, Computerized Project Management chart
etc. Again, the timetables should be supplemented by as detailed a text as is necessary.
6.    For planning purposes, the timetables should be prepared at the end of each project
or fiscal year (whichever is more convenient) for rolling time-periods of two years, i.e., a
plan/timetable for the first two years should be prepared at the beginning of the project;



-182 -                           Annex 17
then at the end of the first year, the plan/timetable for the second year should be revised in
the light of the achievements of the first year and a plan/timetable for the third year added;
then at the beginning of the third year the plan/timetable for the second year should be
revised and a plan/timetable for the fourth year added; and so on.
7.    Again, these plans/timetables should be permanently kept on the PMU computer
and updated continuously by management and MIS staff.  Only the first two-year
plan/timetable should be included in the Implementation Volume for reference, and to set
the format. Print-outs should then be produced at regular intervals, say once or twice a
year, for information and use by other project staff. For six-monthly progress reports to
be submitted to IDA, a year's time-slice should be produced and included in the report,
showing the plan/timetable for the previous six months and following six months.
Suggested Background Materials
Initial Contents
The consolidated final project proposal as appraised by the MPI and cleared by the
Politburo.
Reports of background studies and technical assistance consultancies carried out as
part of project preparation.
The Staff Appraisal Report.
Detailed cost tables, as prepared by IDA.
Aide-Memoires prepared by IDA missions during preparation, appraisal and
supervision.
Building plans or model building plans for civil works under the project.
Any other supporting documentation from project preparation that would be useful
as a guide during implementation and is not included in any of the above
categories.
IDA procurement guidelines.
Materials to be added duiing Implementation
Semi-annual progress reports
Supervision aide-memoires
Annual NCPFP plans and budgets (containing details of counterpart funding
allocations).



ID  Name        __-_    04101 J021Q3104|Q? J                                            O2;03  04|Q;1997    1993                1999                2000120011                              2002
___________ __________       d~I2~ ~LL92i3 14                                    9l3j9 01 Q f4 O  010i
1 Project lmplein entation (Comp(l                                                                                                                                  q
2      Negotialton                                     *
3      Effectiveness                                                                                                                      ;
4      Six Monthly Protect Repo|i
5      Six Monthly Project Report                                             *                                                                                                   i
6      Base-Line Survey Completed
7      Mid-Term Review                                                         I
8      End of Project Review
to     Cuutic;epive Suppieb Siudy
10      TraIning Action Plan                                                                                           |
II      Construction Bids
12      Equipment Bids                                                                              j
13      Medical Supplies Bids                                                                                                                                                                              O
_  Component One: F.cliltliesSuppiles   la) 
2      Facilily Upgrading                                 r                   j
3          Phase One                                      "_|________
4              Cominnne level
6               Provincial level                           ' 
7          Phase Two                                                            __.__                                                                                                                     HI
8               Commnne Level                                                                                                                                                                             Z
9               District tevel                                                                         r         i
10              Provincial Level
13          Evalualion
14          Phase Two
la      Medical EquipmnentProvision (11_b1r 
16          Procurement Processes                                                              -
I7          PhaseOne                                        , 
Is          Phase Tvwo
_~~~~~~ _____________ . ,_ ___-_ ____ __.__= -  --  -  I-- -----                                                                                                           _. -.   .   ..__-..
Prpgtd                                  Crdiical                          Progress                          Sumnwy _
Dade: 11 1795                     j     Nonnrical                         Milestone  *



_D Name                                              |       1996        |       1997                1599       |       1999               2000                2001       i       2002
ID  Name____-                                               9        03 L 9 203 19-O3lo2 u3 1q4Q2 O..0         34 011  0 04  010292 03g   I  91I02 003104  l4Oil  2 3104  01 o I02   0104
_      Essential Driug Supply (tI c)
20          Procuremeilt Processes
21          Phase One
22          Phase Two
1 Component One: Training (1_2)
2     Teaching Equipment Procuremnent                          L
3     MCH/FP Training for CHC Stall
4          Establish Training Team
Timingn,, - Cnore lainers
6          Training - Pwovincal Team
7          Traininug Cl IC Stall l
a     DistFict Supervisor Tiaining                     '_-F _I_I_|_i_--___
9          Training Needs Assessment                                         |
__          Training ol Trainer
I_I         Supervisor Tiaining/2 wk course             *
12     Clinical Training
1 3         Training Needs Assessinel l|
14          Training of Trainers                                              i
15          Training in 15 PFII Provinces                                    I
16          Training in 15 NIIP Provinces
17     Training Managemfent - Province                                                                                                  !
18          Training Needs Assessment
19          Technical Assislance
20          Training in 15 PFH Provinces
21          Training in IS Ni IP Provmnnces             .
22      Specialist Training
23          Tr iainig Desi(jn
24          PlIt/NltIP Training
25     Remnote/Mountais Trainiwg                        '  r
26          Training Design
27          Training of Trainers                                              j                   i
Propec:                                Critical                         Progress                          Summary    '
Dale 11/17/95                          Noncrdical                       Milestone  *
_     . _   _   _   _   _  __ii_    . _           _      _   _               .          _        __     .. _     . _  _  _                                -............ _ _ _ . _-_ ......... . .. _ _



1996                199i               i99B                1999                2000        1       2001                2002
ID  Name                    _  _      _4 Qi [O2tL J   I 9fJ9iLH0 1_                                  90l[It                                                        10  210q3f 04 Q0 1 1021  3104
28          Training New Woikeis
29          Training Existing Workers                    :
30      OBGYN Newsletter Stadted
I Component Two: IEC
2      Equipment Piocureinerl 
3      Technical Assistairce                            :.
4          tlnlellialronrdl CoistUItL,I.'
5          IEC Agency Conitiact Piepared
6          Local Constiltant
7      Stall Developrirent Training                       I
8          Basic Proviicial Training - I
9          Basic Provinicial Training -2                .
10          District Tradiing - 1
11          District Training -2                                               I
12          Commune Training - I.,
13          Commune Training -2                                                                    I
14     IEC ResearchtlSurvey/Evalualion                   .,
15          IEC Message Woiksliop -I                     *.
16          IEC Message Woikshop - 2
17          KAPB Base-line                               .                       m
l8          KAPB Mid-Term                                .m
19          IEC Training Needs Assessmen t
20          IEC Training Evaluation
21          Ethnic Minority Commirnicdtio.|
22          Secondary School Tekd Review
23          PopUldatlon Edricatioir Guidanice
24     IEC Malerials
25          IEC Contract Plepaiallonr
26          Productio,n
27          Activities
1 Connponent Thiee: Contracteplive Supplies
Project                                 Critical                          Progress                          Sunmaryrnan   E
Date 11/17t95                           Noncritical                       Milestone  *



CD     d    L44       U           >    1 1                                            
si    .s   ;  -   z                          ;o        r,rj     0                                                      -         '
--         -                                 ~~~~ ~ ~~~               ~~        ~~- 'C    EL n ~
la                                               Om    J                                            2  5 .4 5                     0
41   d    -   -   -    "   -,  -~~~~~~~~~  CO  'C   -  -  010                                         El  El -~~~~~~~4
-'a r- DEl
I,-    C   -   41   1  ~  C   ~    -                                                 - -                ,~   -   -   0 
11   ~- ~ s.o          ~      :o - c                                                                              'C   '
41  41  4Cd~~~~~L
0                                                         CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C                                         41~~~~~~~~~8



to  o                             _                                            v 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( -n .' -1  ,           _                   ___l
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~V                                                            | G
0  0                       5~~~~~  a 0i  "           a
to~~~~~~~~~
LO~~~~_
-~  -~  (V........              ._  ___  .           .
l ,
_ -, -,5
Ij X@UUV                      -                          .- -



- 188-                          Annex 18
SELECTED DOCUMENTS
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
AND USED IN THE PREPARATION OF THE REPORT
1     Viet Nam  Poverty Assessment and Strategy: The World Bank, Country
Operations Division, Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region; January, 1995.
2.    Viet Nam National Health Support Project Staff Appraisal Report: Human
Resources Operations Division, Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region,
World Bank; December. 1995.
3.    Situation Analysis of Women and Children in Vietnam  (Draft): UNICEF,
Hanoi, January, 1994.
4.    "Investing in Health", World Development Report, 1993: World Bank, 1993.
5.    "Abortion in Vietnam": Measurements, Puzzles and Concerns": Daniel
Goodkind in "Studies in Family Planning", Vol. 25, Number 6; November/December,
1994.
6.    Viet Nam  1988 Demographic and Health Survey: National Committee for
Population and Family Planning, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam; Hanoi, 1990.
7.    MultiRound Survey, April 1, 1993: NCPFP and General Statistical Office;
Hanoi, 1993.
8.    Effective Family Planning Programs: World Bank, 1993.
9.    "The Economic Value of Contraception": A Comparison of Fifteen Methods:
Trussell et al. in the American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 85, No. 4; April, 1995.
10. Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association
to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank
Group for the Socialist: Republic of Viet Nam: Country Department 1, East Asia and
Pacific Region, August 22, 1994.
11.   Viet Nam  Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review: World Bank,
1992.



-189 -                         Annex 18
12.   "Ethnic Minorities in Viet Nam: A Socio-Economic Profile": Elizabeth
Chacko, Summer Intern Report, World Bank, August, 1994.
13.   "Family Planning and Reproductive Status of Ethnic Minorities in Viet
Nam": Stanley Zankel; Consultancy Report for the World Bank; March, 1995.
14.   Viet Nam Population Country Report for the International Conference on
Population and Development, 1994, in Cairo: NCPFP; September, 1994.
15.   Decree of the Government on the Functions, Responsibilities, Powers,
Mechanism and Working Regulations of the National Committee for Population
and Family Planning; Government of Viet Nam; June, 1993.
16.   Estimating the Fertility and Mortality of Provinces and Ethnic Groups: Viet
Nam, 1989: Viet Nam Population Census, 1989; Statistical Publishing House; Hanoi,
1994.
17.   "La Situation Demographique du Viet Nam": Population; No. 3, 1995.






CHINA
BaBone/                  CHINA
~ THALAND~   \   ET
Lai Chao            6 .                                                                    .
.on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol
'j                    *           I >      t        i Long Son                                              CAMBODIA) PSea
209          -       2 /  1    nN  tBinh                                                                                 20 -~~~~~~~~~~~a~,n
LADEMOPLE'SC                                        ai*nhNaa                                 VIET NA
REPUBLIC                                                                         POPULATION AND
S. L    ^Z<:              anFAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
2 ~~~~~ - ~~~~provinces with PHC Systems to be Upgraded:
,   p/~~~~~Qi    *     \        , Hn\ ~~~~~~~~~Phase 1, PFH Projed Provinces
_r'                                         W '    l  \_   mPhase 11, PFH Projet Provinces
$\   \          \\Quong                     ~~~~~~~~Notional Health Support Project Provinces
.    ~          ~    ~    ~~~ i  *. \a  hn                                     r_Y
h                                                          Provinces:
DEMOCRATIC                                                                     VIET NAM~'*~              I a Gan
o  Selected Cities              j                 *g        Kon                                                 Caa Bao ing
* Province Capitals (                             f          u  ro vine  s                                   LangSon
*   National Capitol                                    * \C ~   ' ( on     Noin                            tan Cah
Rivers                       5                           ~P\ -.,                                            Yen Bar
v      t                 \                              e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bac Thai
-- - -~  Province Boundories  ~ 84                       \                  \                              }r Santa
Iternational  Boundaries             c       J                    )                                       I Han Binh
N=g                              L. C)ng  . tVPhu
Province BoundarSoush                                                                                Son La.a
THAILAND Boundars                                                    KonTum                  C h             Hoa Bahy
j                   Play Cu* /'            e I& y Nhn           V Ninh Binh
2Ho Bnc
/,S                                                                      H u   oPhrng Bin
THAILAN       hCAnAIBODIA          ,o                         ( Bron Ma            Irra Thon
\    nTIro             .'                   uagNn  aNn
1-   V !     4 /    j-  1   Thuol  jri   I *-uy o    :OnQSaneri   NIiHn
TBsh Dinh
T.Knth Hoo
*e                         t g   t '~t   ,,  <   ;; .     ; NGi  ai
ui  Tay                                       I )  lImuN5nh(    l hThop Ctoan,  DaH Ticn
k%Nmnt,'                          PimaDour., ThQeLom DSng Be
k"            0.anq NgDan
3  I                                                                     / |                            ";JR    _  ,   5   Phorv Thirl  ;v Ha Chi Minh Gy
1l        Can       laoTonAh                                                       J'nhmCty   11: Toay Ninh
an   nnhc L.c
10]                                                                   D                                                           L 4a Ba BDR-VungTou-CanDon
3I                             a111,                                          a                                                  H. Chir AinhCy
-/0'     ('f,f             TIQJLDu  RachG.          Th ;v > Ben.Te                0     50    1 02   ISO    200    21,0   41 Dong Thop 
ol 71,(,if(,,,}                                Vie  I97                            I |  |   t     J              li AnGiong
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dn N.iTon
X.52B.R-V*        g                                                                       1-  Vian tang
W                          <                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,o hpnor,alrer rolrr,nrde,nr rhlourons  -/} Ira vio1h  
uif of              QU     RachGie                               To. C M     Ira 0rydarar rrryl o,r  200  250     4Du Can Tho         0-
I  Ir  Iear rrr,1 nrie,rom   Aon Ging
3 c'g    ,         ,        - ,,, 0n  e        lseoh u rSordarrr     o             1h' Kren Giong
1c1)0  mV Minh HnL n






CHN                CHINA
(                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYANMAA R
,*H Sng L*
CN   ~~~~~~~~~~        .1 ~~~~~~~~oBo.og                               CHINA                                        R.PD  
Loi Cho.t            6                                             Phoe                                               HALAN
N                                          8/             L.                   X~~6  . 
U*1.                       Yen              Ng~ynnk   MODA
Li4-l  -2                                       OH-;Ninh,
DEM SCnATI                          V,nh ?t  14 ongHo                 iiT   A
70                                              2o G5i
LAO PEOPLE'S                                             o, o
DEMOCRATIC                                                                                          VIET NAM
REPUBLIC                                                                      PROVINCES CLASSIFIED BY
22 
(              ~UNICEF POVERTY CLASSIFICATION
Poverty Classification:
)          *A2 Tinh                                 Poor
- (,  J  z,@a    . l         '                                        Averoge
-P  \        "'                       \   \Above Average
Provinces:
Ha Giang
*Q 4wng No                                            ' Tuyen Qoang
Selected Cities                 )                                                                                     Coo Bong
*      Province Capitols                                        -                                                            Lai Cho.
/           4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogLa. Cai
National Capitals                                               )                                                    Ye. Bo i
Rivers                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boc Thai
Rivers  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Son L.
-  -   Province Boundaries                                                                                                    H. Ha| Bi.h
- - iterticiional Boundaiies                                                                                         Q..ng Ninh
It   /     Qoang                      ~~~~~~~~Vinh Ph.
- IS-                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28 .t  l HoBoc  I
I  /                                         soulh          ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hanoi
THAILAND                          J              ,              .          RonTa                     Soutio         ' HoiPahng
z                                              7    \        . r/  f .  J.......                      Sea             Hal Hang
Thai Binh
'-*   ')/    -      I.           1~~~~~~~~4 Nam H.
Ply C*                  eoNhnNmnh Binh
/                         8      |       ;          ( Proy  C u2   (            *~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quy Nhon  ;Thonh Hoo
H. Tinh
(5Z-                         /'IQ .ang Binh
0                            IQoang Tri
CAM130DIA                                            B ( . MO                                       Thi Thien Hue
CAMII3ODA                                thoot~~~~~~~~~~~~~;      I                  QooHoga
9CJf2                                        Boon Ma  16                *T"~~~~~~~~~~ Hhoa  Q.ong Nam Do Nang
I 9    {   4)  /   j   Ju    =  9                Binh Dinh
1 t*NhoTrong T/ ohonh Hoo
[s \ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '//r                                                  D. Lot      -   I                     KhGio Loi
S   .                       Ninh Thoan
.-'                                          I.,-J     5                                  -vNmh( Th5;5,                    R tJ <  lThop Chononh Thon,
GiaLLai
III  -.              \f~~~~~~~~~~~  Phan Ron                Kn u
.'Ty      T              ~           ~           inpCan' Doc Lac
*  )   . <.   I  Dou rifel  i                                   Lo.m Dong
D   \  ]  |               ir X   \_ ?>>Igoh;  > .  Q                       . ~~~~~~~~~     ~          ~       ~     ~~~~~Pho'n Th,et   H. Chi W,lh Cily
Phan That    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        Song Be
h  Ton A      nCiy4                                                        Toy Nini
T   ne h   Th                                                                       Dong N..
LDn       ;      p       Oh; '>Ue   Rio . n                                             Ba R,oVung TaCon Don
10             Pill] ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'                        ' To.                                                        Lang An          1
GtlIf of             it)oc  Rod, ;ip          Ta     n                               50 a    00    150    200    250        I Dong Thop         IS-
,11t111t]11(}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      I :^ %,]     i   1  J r An G- g
h                    K~~~~~~~~~~~ILOiitIe          'ii Tien Giang
4 _  B,en Tre
/5                                                                                                 | l # tXUI if ; ullf>; (S, ,,,;,ng    Vinh Long
105, '                                         ii "" ' hU ,,,dUl,,i ,t-:bS[fJ6te/irK .................... P.)SSU.h ..... 110 ..  MI...l.... .,.
11 To V,nh~~~~~'-






_                                              )    {/:~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ t ~~~CHINA
_                               _ K             Roee                   CHINA                          (   )P.DR< kC
pjolo '0 *ilong Goi
W~~~          N>.  g   ;sh inhs       Ch)ina                             l
  /   *hoha VlIET NAM                          Sir-
LAO PEOPLE'S                      ,9nhHo                                           ETHNIC MINORITIES
DEMOCRATIC  943 r                                                            AS A4PERCENTAGE OF
REPUBLI                                              TOTAL PROVI NCIAL* POPU LATIONS, 1 989
}  - % \* h                           ~~~~~~~~~Ethnic Minorities, % of Provincial Population:
t)        \                           ~~~~~~j    > 60%
\   \      1    .       <        *9,. T\h                        l    ~~~~20% -60%
S J  >   - <\QuonD            5% - 20%
angs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IH in
Oi     0    >10- g Gang o.n
*  Current Province Ccipiluis   }       i      %>9=             Hue                                        J Long Son~~~~~~~~~~~ih  Ciiii
@ Notional Capitol                                                                                                  S I c 9 !1.   oi Chou
Rivers                           "9                                               0 =  >7   b  Noi D   oong Lien Son-[ : YenR
Province Boundories 1989' and 1995\T                      RT,   Ioc Thai
New  Province Boundori-s, 1995                                     |i                             ,. ..e ,l n.,R on/   Hoo   Risnh
---    International Boundaries                   1<                                   ) '          * 1ebOang   1N is   inh
15                                                                                                '9       2  go'  Ha Son Bmh Id Ha HoBac 1
THAILAND                          j                                 i                   \,                   [is HaoiPhn
*H T-.h -                                                              I' Ha Toy
2                                       20% -                          II Thai Rio
7~~~~~~~~~~~ ta rtmm7                                                                                   ge ih, og 
k                                \                          t       6 < 9             t                - F Quang Rion
;   t   .                5                        ;           e    4t         \   B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iots Tn r hien-:-:  Quang Tri
?   \VSZle  CAMBODIA   Q                       (        1=ft N ^              )             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L, Than mien Hue
\        \ _                                                    l         u           /It       Ns       { | Binh Dmh~~~Bi 
Abv  50   me--ter                                                      *s Phu,  Khoq.nh{; chonhged
.. CAMBODIA     /                     t  f        1       t~    ph  R         Gg        r       Gio o
-      Selecied Cities                                                       gH.                            .    Hoo          Quang Ham Do Hong
No                                        4Lr  >  l  * o Ch   / Phoniaht  Qong Sgn
|     (v1 /~~~~~iver s                                                                        o N..              Hw. tie W VngVng Ta..t  lao RCu inTc-o
1                        _______                                    ' 'ha ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YenBi
Pr 5      ovic Bondris 20        9850 an                                                                                       S ToihodnohraaomlionnleGon L
@   E  J  s   I      I       J   |         b    *sOc0nU                          ehilfnoidosno5G>rpuyfp rmyludmeI IBenTr
---    Ineraioa Bon                hreIo                                                                                         I  onoe  o   i t QuCTrng Nin
13                                         0i5                               Son5e 05 c 'rrenl ilsl w lh elcep/lons 2 )oled    H. Sanders '1  Mh.K Hoi Cc
*3  )r    Ihuan  oi-[ HanRiot  ho
Phon Rung-  fCoo     i rumn
it  '                              .r-""'2;- *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                     I Hon  Hn
us                                                                           I hap Chain         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ Koni Turnh
1]                                                                                                   La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nm Hon
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ 'O                                                    Ha Clii Mints City~~~~~~~~~~~~H N Nihl
r-~~~~-  \Lonh  0  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Ba                         Dong~~~~ h.  Has inTo Hints
U-.                                                                                            is-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nh.Th1
'iC-tI'   Racts Giog    . Tha  Vints                                                    Do~~-n  *y Ho  Qung Nahop   .n
I   j  --.         OSoc Tong                      rim w0,e Rail Grois-. iny udgoci'~~~~~Tl  tit Lon
KiLOMETERS      S                                        o' if. Seoul siotus of u'-y e-'-'uis-.  Cussghi Long    Qun N
buonds-os           ~~~~~~~h.u Kiong['  h Con ls
4'    /                                                             Soc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hang Hoc,
t,                                                                                                   Th.an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oica  oe-f it ihsxc-irn  utdb  edr  Mint Thi Cn






105 ~\,,                                                                                                     CHINA
*Ho    }                                                                         MYANMA1L " 
N   r1.,~' i                                00 Song,~                   CHINA                             (   /' ,,
6  '<~~~~6,    Toyen                                                   THAILAND        '~~~~~~~~~t-JAM
o                            N g   long       n                                                      )            AAI//ODIA)
4;~ ~~~~~~a s                                     I                                                              IOoN,~
No                   -O lOl 0    .MogGi
.N]            >?n (            Hoo B,n, oog  *Hoi Phong                                                        ALAYSIA
Hoao                *   1b,,n 
(h;   < t 99+ -'11  *No n DI 2,1.i h                                            T 1
20'                                                 2/        *' inhSinh                                     VIET  NAM                                             20-
LAO PEOPLE'S  ,                                  R  *ho Moo                             INFANT MORTALITY RATE
REPUBLIC                                                                                BY PROVINCE*, 1989
22         I
>  C><   22   (t                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Infant Mortality Rate:
0'   '4\*;,lih      tvIJI                            j  >  70%
\ hTn CiIhi}Ci                     50% - 69%
k,         23    \                                                         -t'C1  35%-49%
~~1   twtoX  ''" \      '\ -         1                                    |         |  ~~~~~< 35%
Qu..g \                        *Datolo from 1989 Census; some boundornes ond nomes
24  oonh                          ho-e subsequently chonged
Former Provinces:' Current Provinces:
o       Selected Cities                              ~Dpng Ho                                                                  Mo Tye.[ ' Mo  ong
-,  (                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tuyen Quong
*       Current Province Copitals                                                         H 25                                                   S Coo Bon
*        National Capital                               ,-._-                                                                                L a oi Chao
Rivers                                                                                     MNng                 Hoong Lien Son      Y n BCi
Province Boundaries, 1989 ord 1995                                                                                                  Boc Thoi
New  Province Boundaries, 1995                                                                               1.                     H.. Mo So inh
-   - -     Internationol Boundaries                                                                                                         I tu Q.ang Ninh
(    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oong                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2 V/inh Ph.
20 Ngor        Mo. Son Sinkh IHIo Boc
2    8  < s  /   35  '7   \   Ho Son Bir)h 1  Honoig
THAILAND                            )Kon Tum                                                                             [/5 Moi Phong
~~~~                                     f~~~~~~~~~                                           /7 Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hi Mung
6'                  *-,_._t<                        1,~    C                 '   Jvt                   24                        / 1Y Thai Binh
34          ,C Ho No. NinhTV Noam H
taCue                   SQOykonNink Binh
*O.y Nh.n       2/Thank Moo
_~'~          Ngke flnht72 Nghe AnI
(D/
Torl  eD ,                                                  -                 ,     2    {U        Binh T Thi.n.25 Qoong Tin
45)                    \050p1CAM130DIA                                                                                                     6 (  T26 Thuo Thien Hue
1.~~~~~~~~                                                                          BoOn Ma 36                    Tuy Moo          27oogoeDoMn
~~~a            (K~~~~              '5~2  Qoong Ngoi
;. )  Nio SJink49 Bmh Dmnh
I'   I                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                 M~~~~~~~~fI Pth. Yen
\l           I                 jMhoIrana ~~~~~~h.Khnh11Khonh Moo
40             (                  i           f  g~q /2.<j Song- r     ~{J  Ninh Thon
_   \            ,J            %>4    '4    J9            [2+,&        37)       r  J2 r   /         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gio L.i.f.14Gia Lai
29h \>\)   UN)nh    T D h o-  j-9   ~   tPhnang    K.. T.. I  Kon Tum
\aJ/ints  Th  jj                                          lO ~~~~~~~~~Doc Lnc
is              Dou    5,-  - ~~~~~4l                                              7 Lam Dong
0|  1 tlic  ni   \   * ? > h  2  5   Phon Thi'I .1H o Chi Minh City
Ch             ~~~~~~Phon' Thiet                       "I Song B.
*    Coo  in C,i<    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~D.gN.,40~ Toy Mink
H   Gulf of                                         nh       Tho -                                                         V9 ri*n  - BK" Dong N       Ci
46                                       Co~~~~~~~~~~~~ng Do . 42 So Rio-Vung Too-Con Doo
T l 4i8'iaTd ol                                                                                                           5phUol Zoan,e  4J Long An
d ruo Rodk G~                                      h      /t.SrTre                                                                   44 Dong Thop
'| -10  IG?uOc RoC)GIoe   ;?ffisng=                                       J45 An Gong
so     iso      so     2~       250         52  ~       SI       OTra oX h                 Ih. borrrrdonaa. no/m  denaon,,nocornd    46 Tien Giong
0  50  1 00   150     200     250   {           t     51    n                             ond ony ni/mn ,nfonolion 4hown on         J7 Sen Tre
Th.n WondBd 8- Onu.np/ran                    Vinh Long
KILOMrETER5                                                                       o. 1  _n g  CleLgan 4ia0/-erubqron  COO      Iro  nh mn
&Ss.                                    Some os coQrdorenl lst, wi/k ence ns no/nd by eode-o H    G.o    50 Con ThMor
et                               ~~~~~~~~                 ~          ~~~~~~CohN  u     ,i                                           {    Soc T,.ng               r
3 |                       . !05                                   B SomeoscurrenNIsS wi/h excepilons noled by leoders loo   5@ M;rhHcsi              r,S..  as--  ho  )ih ecel-sWedby ..e,sI 10'      IinhH.iI'






V                                                                                                                            A  CHINA
CHINA                          M
6  Toys ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4~~~~~ 
5                ~~~~~cl I 6   l ea
*>< V *Ibong                                    ormr _
;~~~~~~~~~a D. --i> r                 PIh ong                                         u
20                                                                4 B..h                                   VIET NAM                                            20 -
LAO PEOPLE'S                        I/    R                nhHoa                         TOTAL FERTILITY RATE
DEMOCRATIC                                                                               BY PROVINCE*, 1989
REPUBLIC    7
K}s ~        22         (:               South                        Total Fertility Rate:
02   /,} \ ih                            Sea                                     5 0 ~ 59
<   ' H'-  \      <                                                 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 - 5.9
.                             '        Qurongirom 1989 Census, some boundaries and nomes
24    NuB 7J  h                      ha" -bs.que.lly changed
Former Provinces:'  Current Provinces:
\Oong                                     I~~~~~H.Ty.f    H.Gaong
o      Selected Cities                                                           n  Ho                                       a      ruyrn {  en Quong
*      Current Province Capitals               )                                                                                      I 25  \  Coo Bang
National Capital                                                                                                              i ,  6  LoiCh..
Rivers                                                                                                                           Ye | 'r  60  NongB Hoig Len Son n i y     B i
Province Boundories, 1989 and 1995s F                                            .-                                              Boc Thoa
New  Province Boundories  1995                                                    27                                             Hoo Binh
--  -       Internalional Boundaries                    ;                                                         ur                          Qeong Nibh
1   n         fi   < >-\7   ax *t\~~~~~~~l~ go          H. Son B,nh  I    n   h
THAILAND                                                                             -  25  >I.                       {   Hai Tang
Konu                                     is, Ho Toy
THAILAND -II  ,                     ~           ]t~\),, - /  /                *-       |' Ho. Hong
ii                                                 Is (~   t1   ,  ;    J   \t   >   /  Thoi Binh
/          \J                      0          34           29          Ha Ho Nom  N,nth     Nomn Ho
)            vC~~~~~Play Cue                   yNhbon           -       Bo
l:                   - -                       oI21 Thonh Hoo
,-                                         <      P    L    a.   -   P   y7  V  N  h Ti ht "~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  Ngh, An
l.                                                      (9 \gbn --nb{7 1Qun                                                                            Binh
o                                                   ' .ii        Blo i   4t   .1/l  Binh Trbien e2i Quo0ng Tn
T \ronie\  CAMBODIA            cQ                            (  BUn Ma                                          s Thuo Thien Hue
Thuot  26 'Hoo                            2  Qeuo.g Norn Do NHng
K       Nghio Binhli   Q Bunh DNgb
-----A (,  ( J        <      \ i        >   2                                             Phu Kbonsf ;h-   Ph, Yen
RDong  o   Pl Toy Hinb
My  T'aJ -   ' .      -  - -                                         Con Doej Ba Rio-ouG TooConDo
CL/I [0            I l)gi1;;20                  Sny  -~                         - Y< souug               .                  SpecilolZale  ji Lang An
0451/ jP Rang                                                               K...  iAn Giong
ig  0  SL)    ILS  150    200  250   0     }     js s~-,    TioFs  Ishi sl uidoiies colO.. du,,cu,,uuios                     :,, Tion Gioug
I                                                               T.                                               I'Th.pChunDLOMETERS            L lc .h, ie   n   S   ui9 i,d   Ce Lon-;g
cnl  |   i3                                    iionaoss          p      ~,1 Coni Tho 4
< |  Ca   Oil"                                                                                   L   SocD B-,  jj  Trong    n
n                               &miiai1C                                                         Kiss GiBng
|                                 g lo5/~~~~~~~~~ IS iiri as cureninn hl. wilii encepolios iiiind by ieoders l o                  ,Mhili HailC
tyf2                                 Tay N.nh~~~~~









L'   r;  ,                                                   I   "       . I '
rx  y -,                                                               I  -'     _z 7-       i-:. 
.i ,   '     '              A                                                                 I



