                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 28400

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-28070)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.6 MILLION (US$44.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                            SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                        FOR A

                          POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT




                                      April 30, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                         VND 1 = US$ 0.000064
                         US$ 1 = VND 15,566

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 ADB               Asian Development Bank
 CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
 CHC               Community Health Center
 CSDS              Center for Social and Development Studies
 DHS               Demographic and Health Survey
 ICR               Implementation Completion Report
 IEC               Information, Education and Communication
 IMR               Infant Mortality Rate
 KfW               Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
 MIS               Management Information System
 NHSP              National Health Support Project
 PHC               Primary Health Care
 PMU               Project Management Unit
 PFHP              Population and Family Health Project
 RCH               Reproductive and Child Health
 RTI               Reproductive Tract Infections
 SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
 UNFPA             United Nations Population Fund




                 Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
              Country Director     Klaus Rohland, EACVF
               Sector Manager      Fadia Saadah, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     L. Richard Meyers, EASHD

                                          VIETNAM
                         VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P004841                                                  Project Name: VN-POPULATION & FAMILY
                                                                     HEALTH
Team Leader: L. Richard Meyers                                       TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 26, 2004


1. Project Data
                    Name: VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-28070
    Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (88%); Central government administration (12%)
                   Theme: Population and reproductive health (P); Health system performance
                            (S); Indigenous peoples (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/12/1994                                     Effective:                           05/24/1996
      Appraisal: 05/30/1995                                        MTR:                             12/06/1999
       Approval: 01/16/1996                                     Closing: 06/30/2003                 09/30/2003



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         SOC REP OF VIET NAM/National Committee for Population and Family
                                           Planning (NCPFP)
                       Other Partners:     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW); Asian Development Bank (ADB)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:                 Fadia M. Saadah                                Sven Burmester
Team Leader at ICR:             L. Richard Meyers
ICR Primary Author:             Monica Das Gupta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                      Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Note: The risk was substantial at entry because of the project's complexity, the Borrower inexperience with
working with donors, and the fledgling status of government procedures. However, given the government's
political will and the Project Management Unit's caliber, the risk was at most modest (see para. 3.5 for details).

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         Vietnam faced a complexity of development challenges when this project was being developed in
the early 1990s. It was still in process of reconstruction after over three decades of war ending in 1975. It
was also in the process of transition to a market economy, under the Doi Moi reform process launched in
1986. The country needed not only development funds, but also technical support in this reform process
including the challenges of devising new approaches to social service delivery as the old commune-based
system of funding and organizing service delivery collapsed.

         The Population and Family Health Project (PFHP) sought to facilitate economic growth and
poverty alleviation, by reducing the rate of population growth and improving the health of women and
children. This required reviving the primary health care (PHC) system, whose services had been
deteriorating as commune-based funding stopped. The project also aimed to support the process of
designing new ways of managing service delivery compatible with the objectives of Doi Moi reforms. To
achieve this, the project designed a comprehensive package of interventions to upgrade facilities, generate
demand for services, improve the management of service delivery, and reach underserved populations.

         The original objectives of the project were to (1) increase utilization of family planning (FP) and
related family health services; (2) improve the quality and range of family planning and related family
health services; (3) enhance the National Committee for Population and Family Planning's (NCPFP)
management, planning and policy formulation capabilities; and (4) expand the knowledge base on which
policy and technical guidelines would be founded. All the above objectives were to be addressed at national
level, while objectives 1 and 2 were to be addressed more specifically also in the selected provinces.

         The project was designed to impact on the entire country, not only in the selected project provinces.
Between this project (co-financed with the Asian Development Bank [ADB] and the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau [KfW]) and the Bank's National Health Support Project, 36 of the 61 provinces of the
country were covered. It was explicitly understood that the government would try to provide similar
support for the remaining provinces.

         The project's output indicators are very good, although for various reasons it is not possible to
conduct a formal impact evaluation of the project (para. 4.1). The bottom line is that this project provided
important financial and technical support at a critical phase of Vietnam's social and economic transition.
The health services were upgraded and levels of utilization have risen -- as reflected for example in
                                                                        1/


significant rises in the proportions of women reporting receiving antenatal care and delivering in health
facilities, as well as in child immunization. Reinvigorating the health services was an important
achievement, and avoided the problems of service disintegration which people in China faced during their
transition from communism to a market economy. The project also helped build institutional and human
capacity for running these services in the new institutional setting of the country. Demographic and health
outcomes improved during the course of the project.

         The reasons for the project's success include (a) a strong political will, and (b) a highly flexible
and powerful institutional set-up (the NCPFP and its corresponding units at provincial and lower levels) to
implement it.

         (a)      Political will: This project was driven by a high level of political will. This derived from
                  the fact that the Vietnamese government placed the highest priority on reducing population



                                                      - 2 -

                 growth, and on continuing to improve its social sector services and outcomes. A great deal
                 had already been achieved by the time of Doi Moi, but the opening to a market economy
                 brought new challenges. Important among these was the breakdown of commune funding
                 for social services. Also important was the writing on the wall that the strong
                 community-based networks of the previous regime would gradually disintegrate, removing
                 a powerful organizational base for changing behaviors and providing services for
                 FP-RCH. The government moved quickly to set up an inter-agency body to implement
                 these programs (described below), and gave them strong support in carrying out their
                 work. As reported by the local agencies involved in the Final Evaluation, the Project
                 Management Unit (PMU) Director worked hard to use the remaining years of the old
                 system to nail down the fertility and RCH transition in the country -- while also training
                 his staff and his organization to learn the new ways of doing business. And the
                 government made sure that the project funds were used to good effect, to benefit the whole
                 country rather than only the project provinces.

         (b)     Implementing agency: In 1991, well before the project was prepared, the country's
                 leadership had already recognized the need for separating FP-RCH implementation from
                 the constraints of line ministries (in this case the MoH). FP-RCH was charged to a
                 Committee established specifically for this purpose, the NCPFP. As a Committee directly
                 under the government, it has considerable functional flexibility as compared with regular
                 ministries, giving it considerable autonomy to take decisions without the full gamut of
                 bureaucratic procedures.

                 This central agency was designed to be able to work easily and flexibly across sectors and
                 agencies. Its membership spanned a wide range of key Ministries needed for effective
                 service delivery, including the Ministries of Health, Labour, Education, Finance, and
                 Defence. Thus each ministry could take quick action, in coordination with other
                           2/


                 ministries, to implement the Committee's decisions. In addition, the NCPFP worked
                 closely with organizations with dense grassroots membership and reach, such as the
                 Women's Union and Youth Union. The organization of the central NCPFP was mirrored
                 at province and district levels.

                 Thus the NCPFP has an enviable degree of administrative flexibility, as well as scope for
                 cross-agency collaboration. It has used these strengths very effectively in project
                 implementation. It worked hard to build strong working relationships with the ministries
                 and agencies represented on the Committee, keeping them engaged in planning, budgeting,
                 and program implementation through regular meetings. Much of the Committee's work
                 was done by having the line ministries and agencies prepare working plans and budgets in
                 line with the Committee's overall workplan, which made for an active engagement. The
                 working of the NCPFP is discussed further in para. 5.3.

         There is no question that the project objectives were clear, in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and with borrower needs and priorities, and important for the country's development
agenda. It was however a complex and risky project, with heavy demands on the implementing agency
(para. 3.5). The project's success under these challenging circumstances is due to the strong political will
and the institutional strengths of the implementing agency, as mentioned above, combined with the Bank's
support to the implementing agency.

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                      - 3 -

         Some adjustments were made to the project directions following the Mid-Term Review. This was
in response to the government's own rethinking of its population policy needs, given that the baseline
survey showed that the fertility decline had proceeded much faster than anticipated, and that therefore some
of the project's original objectives had already been met. To summarize, the adjustments represented a
greater focus on reproductive health (as opposed to family planning and family health), and to Behavioral
Change Communications (BCC; as opposed to Information, Education and Communication [IEC]). The
shift to BCC was required to address the broader set of communication needs involved in changing
behaviors for improving RCH outcomes, rather than merely increasing contraceptive use.

3.3 Original Components:

         The specific components of the project were:

         (a)     Provincial Service Delivery (USD 74.8 million). Strengthening of PHC services in 15
                 provinces, with a focus on family health and family planning services. To bring each
                 facility up to a certain specified standard, it supported: civil works to renovate and expand
                 buildings to certain construction specifications (USD 24.9 million); supplies of furniture,
                 equipment, and vehicles (USD 20.3 million); additional supplies of essential drugs and
                 medical supplies (USD 16.1 million); and development of standard training curricula and
                 refresher training for all commune and district-level staff as well as training of national
                 and provincial trainers (USD 4.5 million).

                 To assure adequate storage and distribution of essential drugs and contraceptives, an
                 efficient and cost-effective national logistics system was to be developed.

                 Two model outreach systems were to be tested and expanded if successful: a network of
                 village-level health posts in remote mountainous regions, and a strengthened hamlet-based
                 network of FP-RH outreach workers ("population collaborators"). These were in fact
                 found successful and expanded in subsequent phases of the project.

         (b)     IEC (USD 16.8 million). Strengthening of family planning and family health IEC
                 programs and activities, by expanding the IEC channels, programs and activities for
                 FP-RH programs. These messages were to cover the use of modern contraceptives to
                 delay, space or limit childbearing; the prevention and treatment of RTIs; aspects of
                 pre-natal and emergency obstetric care, and issues such as gender bias. As an additional
                 strategy, a social marketing initiative for the contraceptive pill was to be launched, largely
                 in urban areas.

                 The IEC strategy was to build on not only the existing strong interpersonal communication
                 channels in Vietnam, but also to use the growing reach of the mass media. The project
                 would finance the costs of IEC materials development, production and air or screen time;
                 training; transport and equipment; IEC special campaigns, workshops, events, etc., and the
                 costs of social marketing other than the pills themselves.

         (c)     Contraceptive Supplies (USD 25.3 million). This was designed to support increased use
                 of modern methods of contraception, and also to effect a shift from the use of IUDs to oral
                 pills, injectables and condoms. This is in line with increasing the use of effective methods
                 of contraception, and expanding contraceptive choice.



                                                       - 4 -

        (d)     FP Management and Institutional Development (USD 6.7 million). Strengthening of the
                management and planning capabilities of NCPFP and its subsidiary committee network.
                This included identifying organizational needs and developing appropriate curricula for
                training of trainers, as well as training of staff.

                A management information system (MIS) was envisaged, to support strategic planning at
                national and provincial levels, as well as operational activities at commune level, and a
                coordinating function at district level. The project would support cost of computers and
                software, other equipment, planning workshops, development of training curricula and
                actual training for management and MIS trainers, and MIS training courses for CPFP staff
                at all levels down to the commune. The project would also cover the costs of the project
                management structure and of monitoring and evaluation activities.

        (e)     Service Delivery Model Initiatives (USD 6.0 million). Provision of a fund for studies,
                development of models, and pilots of improved service delivery approaches and
                interventions in key areas of family planning and related family health issues. Detailed
                proposals for these activities were to be developed later.

        These components were clearly related to achieving the project's objectives. However, they were
very demanding on the administrative and financial management capacities of the implementing agency
(paras. 3.5 and 7.6). The fact that the project was carried out successfully and on time is testimony to the
PMU's caliber and dedication, and to the Bank's support of the PMU in the process. Since there was only
one social sector project previously (and recently) funded in the country, there was little opportunity to
learn from prior projects.

3.4 Revised Components:

        The original components were retained, but with some changes in view of what the project had
already achieved, as well as of changes in the country's needs. The stated changes in emphasis in each
component included the following:

        (a)     Provincial Service Delivery. Implementing an integrated package of incremental,
                district-wide investments in key population and family planning operating systems
                (supervision, MIS and IEC systems). Also, an additional list of equipment items were to
                be procured and distributed to district hospitals.
        (b)     IEC. Refocusing the IEC activities to BCC activities, geared towards behavioral change
                for improving RCH outcomes boosting the national and provincial capacity for managing
                BCC; research for more effective implementation of BCC; installing client-centered
                counseling skills in the provinces; and supporting two national campaigns targeted towards
                married couples and towards adolescents and unmarried adults.
        (c)     Contraceptive Supplies. Encouraging the government to unify and rationalize the planning
                and management of the country's contraceptive supplies under the NCPFP, and link
                inventory management with the utilization of these consumables in the course of service
                delivery.
        (d)     FP Management and Institutional Development. Integrate the investments in MIS and
                supervision systems from the original Component 4 to Component 1.
        (e)     Service Delivery Model Initiatives. The project was intrinsically complex in design and
                involved substantial risk at entry, despite the groundwork put in by the Bank and the



                                                      - 5 -

                  Borrower during the long project preparation period. Firstly, this project had many
                  components and three co-financiers, including the Bank. Although all the components are
                  common in FP-RCH projects, they made for complexity of implementation. The
                  co-financiers agreed on the main objectives but had different procedural requirements for
                  the Borrower to follow (para. 7.1). Secondly, new procedures had to be devised in
                  collaboration with several line ministries and other agencies, and then disseminated to
                  provincial, district, and commune levels.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        Overall, the project involved a range of policy and institutional improvements, and was highly
demanding of the Borrower and implementing agency, who were new to working with the Bank (para. 7.6).
These problems were overcome largely because of the Borrower's high level of political will, and the
creation of a well-designed Committee and PMU (para. 3.1). The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) team
which assessed Quality at Entry in 1998 came to similar conclusions.

        The project's objectives were closely linked to the CAS objectives. Environmental and social
safeguards were adequately addressed.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        This project achieved a great deal in its objectives of improving the quality and reach of FP-RCH
services in Vietnam. This is reflected for example, in rising proportions of women receiving antenatal care
and delivering in health facilities, and in the proportions of children immunized.

        Between 1997 and 2002 (during the life of the project), all the demographic and health indicators
outlined in the SAR improved (see statistical Annexes 1 and 2):

       l The Total Fertility Ratefell from 2.67 to 1.87,3/ and the Infant Mortality Ratefell as well..4/
       l The proportion of children fully immunized5/ during their first year of life rose from 50.4% to
             58.1%.
       l Care at deliveryimproved significantly: the proportion of births taking place in a health
             facility rose from 62% to nearly 79%.
       l Antenatal careimproved significantly, with the percentage of women reporting receiving
             antenatal services rising from 71% to 87%. The source of service improved substantially, with
             the percentage of women reporting seeing a doctor for antenatal care rising from 25% to 46%.

       l Contraceptive use and method mix changed relatively little. There was relatively little scope
             for increasing contraceptive use, since over 75% of married women aged 15-49 were already
             currently contracepting in 1997, but this figure rose further to nearly 79% by 2002. There is
             wide knowledge and availability of other methods, in particular pills and condoms, but
             contraceptive method mix changed negligibly. The Final Evaluation Report attributes this to
             the government's commitment to IUDs as opposed to methods which require more active
             management by users.
       l The rates of abortion and menstrual regulation had, if anything, risen slightly. This should not
             necessarily be assumed to be a failure of the project, as it is typically associated with rapid
             fertility decline in developing countries.



                                                       - 6 -

         However, this project's success cannot be assessed in conventional terms. This is because there
are no clear counterfactuals to help identify project achievements.

1.       The project benefited the country as a whole, and not only the project provinces. As reported by
the PMU as well as the Final Evaluation, almost a third of project funds were spent on non-project
provinces. Project provinces were the exclusive beneficiaries of funds for facility upgrading, but funds for
all the other components of the project were spent nation-wide. Moreover, the government concentrated its
own resources more on the non-project provinces, as a result of which the Final Evaluation estimates that
the total spending in non-project provinces was somewhat higher than in the project provinces.

2.       The project and non-project provinces had different characteristics and trajectories. According to
the Final Evaluation, the non-project provinces were somewhat better off to begin with, and thereafter
provinces benefited to different degrees from the rapid economic growth of the country. This makes it
difficult to estimate the impact of the project per se on outcomes.

3.       Early achievement of target indicators. The Staff Appraisal Report developed a set of target
indicators on FP-RCH, but the baseline survey (DHS 1997) revealed that several of these had either
already been met or were close to being met. By the time these data became available, the Bank and the
                                              6/


government were preoccupied with project implementation and no new target indicators were specified for
the project. The target remained to achieve as much as possible in terms of improving FP-RCH service
delivery and outcomes, and this is what the project proceeded to do very impressively.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Please see Endnote 7.

(a)      Provincial Service Delivery. This was highly satisfactory, carried out at low cost and in a timely
manner. Stakeholder participation was high. In all, 75% of the communes in the project provinces have
upgraded CHCs, and the project was responsible for transforming existing CHCs from a dilapidated state
to good quality. In addition at the district and provincial levels, 15 MCH-FP centers and were upgraded
and twelve Population Training Centers were built. Operating theatres were built for 138 districts, along
with associated upgrading of the civil works. The total cost was around USD 14 million, as compared with
the initial estimate of nearly USD 25 million. Assiduous use of bidding procedures helped effect these cost
savings.

Furniture, equipment and vehicles were supplied to the facilities, beyond the initial plans because additional
funds were made available through cost savings elsewhere. A total of USD 27 million was spent on this, as
compared with the USD 20.3 million originally envisaged. The CHC equipment provided pertained mainly
to gynecological procedures, minor surgery, child care, and sterilization. Equipment was not provided for
checking ears, nose and throat, or eyes, which are common requirements especially for children.

Districts and provincial hospitals were provided with ultrasound machines, anesthesia machines, X-ray
machines, surgical tables and lamps, and some fairly sophisticated gynecological examination devices such
as colposcopes. Training on how to maintain the equipment was given.

Only USD 2 million was spent on purchasing drugs, because it was quickly found that most CHCs had a
sustainable drug fund. Since USD 16 million had been allocated for this in the project, this was another
source of cost savings. The implementing agency is to be commended for its flexibility in changing course
in response to field circumstances, and using funds to maximum effect.


                                                      - 7 -

The project invested around USD 3.7 million in medical re-training, not the USD 4.5 million originally
envisaged. A great deal was accomplished within this budget. One part of this was retraining on FP-RCH
for staff at all levels, which was creatively structured and greatly appreciated by staff. The training
activities also included training of ethnic minority workers and village health workers; training on
monitoring; and training of technical staff for using and maintaining the sophisticated equipment supplied
to District Health Centers. All this was done starting at national level training of national and provincial
trainers, followed by cascading training down the hierarchy. Standard training curricula were developed,
and training methods of high quality established. For the RCH training and for some IEC work, materials
developed by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) were used. A lacuna noted by the Final
Evaluation is that this training should have been backed up by more technical support and monitoring of
the work of these staff on a regular basis.

(b)      IEC. This was satisfactory. Later changed into a BCC campaign, it successfully covered a wide
range of issues on FP-RCH, including the prevention and treatment of RTIs, and sexually transmitted
diseases and Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV), adolescent reproductive health, and safe delivery.
Activities in this component included provision of vehicles and IEC materials, training down to grassroots
level; IEC activities in disadvantaged areas; monitoring and evaluation, and supervision of IEC activities;
and social marketing of contraceptives. The UNFPA contributed by developing materials for BCC
training, and for re-training health workers. A total of USD 16.8 million was originally allocated for IEC

(c)      Contraceptive Supplies. This was satisfactory. The project overcome major logistical and other
hurdles to procure and distribute contraceptive supplies effectively. A total of USD 25.3 million was
allocated for this.

(d)      FP Management and Institutional Development. This was satisfactory, except for the MIS
component. To strengthen the management and planning capabilities of the NCPFP and its subsidiary
committee network, training materials were developed and training given at province and district levels.

A management information system (MIS) was also envisaged, to support strategic planning at national and
provincial levels, as well as operational activities at commune level, and a coordinating function at district
level. This took time to develop, partly because the "hardware" components of the project took up a lot of
the PMU's attention in the early years. In 2001, the Bank decided to drop this component given the short
time left in the project. A total of USD 25.3 million was allocated for this.

(e)      Service Delivery Model Initiatives. This was highly satisfactory. A series of models were
developed and applied, including providing health posts where clinics were not available; safe motherhood
efforts to improve antenatal, delivery and postnatal care; using mobile groups to deliver RCH services; and
mobilizing communities to deal with HIV. The most popular and successful model was to organize
campaigns on RCH services for disadvantaged areas. This did much to generate demand and increase
service utilization in the most under-served regions of the country. Since this activity was started only in
2000, there was time in the remainder of the project's duration for only four more rounds. These rounds
were carried out very successfully in almost every province of the country.

Interviews with provincial staff during the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission revealed that
they felt the RCH campaigns had been especially successful at raising women's awareness of their
reproductive health needs, as well as backing up this aware-raising by providing free services including
surgery. Thus the campaigns could reach (1) women who lived in remote places and had limited access to
public clinics, and (2) women who might not have felt able to afford the user charges for these services in


                                                       - 8 -

the public clinics. A total of USD 6 million was allocated for all of the model initiatives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         Although a social sector project does not lend itself to computing a financial rate of return in a
strict sense, it appears that project funds were used with efficiency and efficacy to improve the reach and
quality of FP-RCH services in Vietnam. Substantial cost savings were made through energetic use of
bidding procedures, such that the civil works component was completed on a much lower budget than
anticipated during project design. Further cost savings were derived in other ways, for example when it
was discovered that the health facilities could cover a large part of their drug costs themselves.

         The savings were used to improve service quality even beyond that envisaged in the original project
design. For example, district hospitals were supplied with a range of equipment (and associated training)
which substantially upgraded their capacity to act as referral centers for RCH services, including for
emergency services and surgery. Surplus funds were also used to devise ways to reach women who had
limited financial or geographical access to RCH services at clinics (para. 4.2 e).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The project has contributed to the country's process of learning new, more market-oriented ways,
of doing business. At the outset of the project, many routine bureaucratic procedures had yet to be
developed, and new modes of management devised (para. 7.6). The project has done much to help the
Committee and its constituent members from various line ministries to become more familiar with such
practices. Many of these procedures (such as bidding, and having separate departments examine the
process) are now generally applied in the NCPFP, and the experienced PMU staff are in high demand in
other departments. As reported by the PMU, the procedural lessons from this project, as well as the
NHSP, have been incorporated into Ministry of Health and national guidelines. As the Final Evaluation
Report says, the project "has contributed to an open-minded policy toward cooperation with other
institutions, which has been rare in Vietnam and deserves imitation." Provincial institutional capacity was
also enhanced, for example by the dissemination of new service models which were prepared in the course
of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The rapid demographic transition in Vietnam made it necessary to be flexible in project
implementation. The Bank and the PMU were creative in rising to this challenge and adapting project
activities to use the funds effectively to improve FP-RCH outcomes in the country.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The government created very favorable conditions for project implementation (para. 3.1). Even
before project preparation began, the government had set up a Committee (NCPFP) with membership from
several line ministries and organizations such as the Women's Union and Youth Union. When the project
was being prepared, a PMU was set up within this Committee, with clear authorities and responsibilities.



                                                      - 9 -

         However, the salaries of the PMU staff were lower than other parts of the public sector in the early
years. Thus the unit's work was hampered by a high turnover of staff. The Final Evaluation Report points
out that it was remarkable that the project was so successful under these circumstances. Fortunately, the
same PMU Director was in place throughout the project, and was able to provide institutional continuity
throughout and keep staff motivated with a sense of mission. In 2000, the Ministry of Health issued
regulations to give additional allowances to project staff.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The implementing agency was highly committed in its approach to project implementation.
Observations during the ICR mission made it apparent that the NCPFP and the PMU had worked hard and
creatively to overcome major procedural hurdles (para. 7.6) to develop strong financial and other
management procedures. Some implementation delays were inevitable in this process, especially at the
early years. They actively sought technical assistance from wherever they could find it, including not only
from the Bank and other international sources, but also a range of domestic sources.

         As a result of their efforts, they did not merely implement the project successfully and on time,
which is in itself a remarkable achievement under the circumstances but went beyond this to extract the
maximum use of the project funds to strengthen the country's population and family health services (para.
4.4).

         They cultivated close collaborative relationships with the line ministries and agencies represented
in the Committee, as well as with the provincial, district and commune levels. They encouraged strong
stakeholder and beneficiary involvement through transparent processes (para. 7.5). They were careful to
try not to overstep their mandate, even if that meant giving up control over large amounts of funds (para.
7.1).

         Discussions with two independent agencies which participated in conducting the Final Evaluation
of the project confirmed the observations of the ICR mission. They also pointed out the PMU's strategic
abilities in using the strengths of both the socialist and the newly emerging market systems to implement the
project as effectively as possible (para. 3.1). The Bank's QAG team also emphasized the high caliber,
commitment, and pragmatic approach of the implementing agency (para. 3.5).

5.4 Costs and financing:

No additional cost changes.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The sustainability rating for the project is "likely".

         The project is likely to be sustainable, because FP-RCH are high priority issues for the
government, and because most of the project components were designed not to generate recurrent expenses
beyond the government's ability to sustain them. Further support may be needed for some components of
the project, and for some disadvantaged populations (para. 10). One concern is that once the management
of the activities is transferred to the MoH, the considerable implementation advantages of the NCPFP and
the PMU will be lost.


                                                       - 10 -

        The SAR estimated that the recurrent costs of maintaining the upgraded facilities would amount to
about 3% of the total national health budget, even including the facility upgrading being undertaken under
the NHSP and the government's own efforts in other provinces. This includes the maintenance of the
upgraded civil works and equipment (which would be shared between the health and population-FP
budgets), and costs of annual drugs, supplies and logistics. It was anticipated that the costs for
contraceptives and associated logistics would cost the equivalent of about 13% of the total budget for
population and family planning in 2002, and that some of these costs might be reduced by a system of user
charges. Potential problems of institutional sustainability after project closure were avoided by not adding
permanent salaried staff to the health services or the family planning program. Increased demand for
health and family planning services was anticipated to be met from the under-utilized capacity within the
existing staff. The level of IEC activities and expenditure was expected to revert to pre-project norms
after project closure.

        The government has indicated that it increased the budgetary allocation for RCH campaigns in
"difficult" areas by 37% in the year following the end of the project (from 16 million dong in 2003 to 22
million dong in 2004). This indicates the government's commitment to sustaining work in this area.

        Establishing an MIS system would help to refine program management, monitoring and evaluation.
On a less sophisticated level, the project and the future implementation of the project activities can be
monitored and evaluated using the censuses and surveys which are conducted in the country. In addition,
there are vital registration data of good quality, collected on a regular basis. Importantly, a new research
institute has been opened under the NCPFP (now renamed the Committee for Population, Family and
Children) for carrying out surveys and other research on issues of population quality. These channels can
all potentially be used for monitoring and evaluation in the future, using the performance indicators
already developed in the project.

        The need for follow-up projects is discussed in para. 10. No impact evaluation is planned at
present.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    The transition arrangements were specified by the PMU as follows:

   l The central government allocated funds for maintaining the civil works.
   l The medical equipment can be maintained out of the revolving funds that hospitals have for this
        purpose.
   l The central government has enough regular funds for re-training the population workers. Medical
        retraining is under the responsibility of the MoH, which may seek donor support for this purpose.
        The training curricula already developed by the NCPFP can continue to be used.
   l For continuing the special campaigns, the NCPFP has government funding to continue the
        activities on a quite limited scale. Donor support would be very helpful in continuing this work on
        a satisfactory scale.
   l IEC/BCC activities will have to depend on limited local funds, so donor funding would be helpful.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                     - 11 -

        The overall performance in this area is satisfactory.

        The project identification is strongly in line with the CAS and with government priorities.
Moreover, the project was set up with a well-coordinated package of inputs, although the circumstances
made it difficult to implement them all simultaneously from the outset (para. 3.5).

        The QAG team felt that the project may not have been well-justified, since the demographic and
health transitions were already well under way in Vietnam at the time of project preparation. However, the
project can be justified in light of the clear need to strengthen RCH services (para. 3.1). Moreover, the
country's high population density and high dependency ratios made the government anxious to help speed
up the process of demographic transition rather than let it take its own course a concern it shares with
most Asian countries.

        The Bank's preparation assistance was well appreciated by the implementing agency. During the
long project preparation period, the Bank was careful to provide necessary additional support to the
implementing agency in light of their inexperience with working with the Bank, and the implementing
agency made the most of these learning opportunities. In particular, the implementing agency noted the
efforts made to train them in Bank procedures for procurement etc., and the time the Bank mission
members spent in helping them with activities such as estimating costs of civil works. The PMU
appreciated the regular supervision provided by the Bank, with helpful backstopping and criticisms
accompanied by suggested solutions to the problem in hand. However, the Final Evaluation Report notes
that the budget may have been somewhat over-estimated, and that there should have been more training in
Bank procedures, from the outset.

        Project Appraisal. The project appraisal was carried out carefully, but the resulting project design
was complex and placed heavy demands on the implementing agency (para. 3.5). The resolution of these
demands required an unusual caliber and dedication of the implementing agency and even given this,
meant that the implementation schedule was (too ambitious) for the early years. Also, more attention
could have been paid to the fact that the country was undergoing very rapid changes, and that this might
mean that project implementation needs could change in the course of the long duration of the project.

        The PMU raised a few other points about the implementation arrangements. They felt that the
co-financing arrangements could have been handled more smoothly. This project had three donors: the
Bank, ADB, and a small component by the KfW. Each had their own separate rules and procedures for
the PMU to follow, although they were coordinated in their overall goals. Moreover, they often did not
coordinate their supervision missions, which along with the requirement for separate reports for each
donor, took up a lot of PMU time.

        The decision to keep the NPFP facility upgrading component under the NCPFP, instead of the
MoH, was somewhat controversial. In fact, the leader of the Committee requested that this should be
managed by the MoH because it was under their mandate. This was a remarkable request, since it meant
                                                              8/


giving up control over a large chunk of project funds in order to use everyone's relative strengths to best
effect for achieving the project's objectives. The government decided that on balance it was better to keep
the facility upgrading for the provinces in the NPFP with the NCPFP, and those in the NHSP with the
MoH thereby dividing the burden of this task between two agencies. The Bank also felt that it was better
kept with the NCPFP, in order to have a comprehensive package of inputs for the project.

7.2 Supervision:




                                                      - 12 -

    As a result of much commitment and flexibility on both sides, the Bank and the Government of
Vietnam managed to successfully implement a project of considerable administrative and other complexity.
The good working relationships established between the clients and the lender made it possible to modify
project plans in light of the country's changing needs.

         The supervision missions paid close attention to the progress of the project. They checked that
Bank procedures were being properly followed. They noted significant issues in project implementation,
spelt out clear steps for correcting them, and subsequently followed up on them. This was clearly
appreciated by the PMU (para. 7.1). However, they felt that it would have reduced their burden if the
donors had coordinated their supervision missions more frequently.

         In some areas, changes in project plans could have been considered: for example, successive
supervision missions noted that the upgraded health facilities were found to accumulate water in the roof,
indicating that the standardized design (initially prepared by international consultants) was inadequate.
Also, the roof design was different from the traditional tiled roofs, which local people know how to
maintain easily. If this design had been modified when the problem was first noted, it would have reduced
the recurrent costs of maintaining these civil works.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         The overall performance of the Bank has been satisfactory, as evidenced not only by the project's
achievements, but also by the attestations of the implementing agencies at national, provincial, district and
commune levels. There were only some scattered shortcomings listed in paras. 7.1 and 7.2.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's ownership, involvement and contributions during project preparation and appraisal
were satisfactory (para. 7.1). Relevant aspects of project design were well addressed, including technical,
institutional, environmental and social issues. The Trust Funds for project preparation were fully utilized,
as reported by the pre-appraisal mission. However, the planning of activities by the Bank and the
Borrower was overly ambitious in the early phases of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The project objectives were central to the government's development plans. The performance of
the Borrower was highly satisfactory despite the significant challenges posed by lack of experience with
implementing Bank-financed projects. The prior establishment of the NCPFP ensured that the
implementing agency had the flexibility and authority to meet these challenges, as well as those arising
from the need for work with a multiplicity of agencies from national to grassroots levels in order to
implement the project successfully. And the establishment of a clearly-mandated PMU under exceptional
leadership set the stage for a successful project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The implementing agency is impressive in its organization (para. 3.1), and has performed highly
satisfactorily. It worked creatively to overcome a range of major challenges, and with small exceptions was
able to do this with remarkable success. This is despite very poor remuneration for PMU staff (para. 5.2).
One set of challenges arose from unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. The multiplicity of donors with



                                                     - 13 -

different requirements further complicated this process (para. 7.1).

         Another set of challenges arose from the fact that the government itself was in the initial stages of
developing bureaucratic procedures which are routine elsewhere. The PMU provided several examples of
this. For example, it required innovation to set up a system whereby different units of the PMU were
responsible for checking on different technical and procedural aspects of a bid, before the Director signed
off on it. Yet another issue was the need to then interface Bank procedures with those of the government.
For example, the PMU had to work closely with the Ministries of Finance and Planning, to work out
procedures for financial management and bidding.

         A recurrent statement in the Bank supervision aide-memoires, as well as the Final Evaluation, is
that the "hardware" aspects of the project (facility upgrading) were done first, and that it was only after
this was well established that attention turned to the "software" components such as training, management,
IEC, and service delivery model initiatives. It is certainly true that it would have been better if these
components had all been delivered simultaneously from the beginning of the project. Yet it needs to be
understood that there were enormous organizational and systemic hurdles to be overcome in the early years
of the project, as summarized also in the Final Evaluation (page 58). A more phased approach to project
implementation was probably helpful under the circumstances.

         The PMU leadership was commended highly by those who conducted the Final Evaluation, for
their management skills and dedication to assuring project success. One aspect of their good management
is a high level of transparency in project operations and budgets. Communes would for example be told
what civil works were scheduled to be carried out, by whom, and what it would cost and they would be
asked to monitor the construction and let their superiors know if there were any perceived shortfalls. This
led to a high level of ownership of project implementation by lower levels and other agencies. Also
impressive is the effective use of the Committee's inter-agency composition to mobilize wide-ranging local
collaboration in meeting the project goals.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Overall performance is rated as highly satisfactory, for all the reasons given above. Despite the
difficulties facing them, the Borrower achieved a great deal under the project auspices, in terms of (1)
reinvigorating the health services; (2) improving FP-RCH outcomes; and (3) building institutional and
human capacity for running these services in a new institutional setting. The government and the
implementing agency have shown the commitment needed to learn Bank procedures. They also effected
major cost savings and used these savings effectively (para. 4.4).

8. Lessons Learned

         Many of the lessons learned from this project were highlighted by the PMU in their Project
Completion Report, and in their discussions during the ICR mission. These are largely in line with those
highlighted by the QAG team in 1998. The following are some key reasons given for the project's
successful implementation:

        l The project addressed issues held in high priority by the country, and was therefore backed by
             strong political will (para. 3.1).
        l The project was designed as a well coordinated package of hardware and software including
             civil works, equipment, drugs, training, BCC, special campaigns, etc.
        l The project management structure was clear with clear lines of authority and accountability




                                                     - 14 -

            and procedures.
       l The members from the various ministries and agencies represented in the Committee were
            heavily involved in project preparation, so they understood it well and could implement it
            effectively. They were fully involved in project management, which was important because
            many things have to be decided by the Minister of the concerned department in order for quick
            action to be taken.
       l There was a high level of ownership and transparency from the communes upwards (para.
            7.6). This empowered local people to manage the project, although the project design required
            the Center to play a directive role.
       l The Committee and PMU was flexible in their planning, needed to respond to the country's
            rapidly changing needs and circumstances between the beginning of project preparation in
            1993 to the end of the project in 2002. The Final Evaluation Report also emphasized this
            point.

        However, the PMU also stated that if they were to do the project again, they would make some key
changes:

       l The project was too long in duration, creating problems of trying to respond to changing needs
            within a pre-existing project framework.
       l The project was too complex. This is partly due to the multiplicity of donors with different
            requirements (para. 7.1). It is also partly due to the expectation that all components of the
            project could be carried out simultaneously from the outset. This was especially difficult since
            basic procedures had to be set up (para. 7.6).
       l The provinces should have more autonomy to manage their project-related work than they did
            in the NPFP. The center should be responsible for overall direction as to the project's
            objectives and scope. The provinces should develop their own designs and budget estimates
            for project implementation, to be reviewed and approved by the center. The center should also
            provide supervision and support as required in management and disbursement. The PMU used
            this more decentralized model when managing the Emergency Assistance for Flood
            Rehabilitation under the NPFP, and found it worked well.

        In addition to these lessons, a couple of additional points need to be made, especially for purposes
of developing future projects in the sector:

        (a)     The strengths (and limitations) of the implementing agency. There is much to learn from
                the implementing agency's successful functioning, for other programs and projects which
                require strong inter-agency cooperation. Para. 3.1 describes the bureaucratic flexibility
                and inter-agency membership of the NCPFP, as well as the mirroring of this organization
                down through provincial, district, and commune level. Line ministries have an advantage
                when it comes to activities which need to be managed largely within their own
                organization. For example, in an HIV control project, medical aspects such as blood
                safety or ART are best managed by the MoH. However, the Committee is designed to be
                much more effective at the inter-agency work and grassroots mobilization required for
                generating behavioral change for AIDS prevention and management at individual and
                community levels.

        (b)     Lessons for Vietnam and elsewhere on making the shift from traditional family planning
                programs to more reproductive health-oriented approaches.




                                                    - 15 -

                 Countries which perceive themselves to face a high pressure of population on resources are
                 often inclined to concentrate their efforts on high-pressure FP programs, instead of broader
                 RCH efforts. In many Asian countries, these FP programs have consisted of saturation
                 campaigns to persuade people that smaller families are desirable, combined with
                 large-scale supply of contraceptives. In the process, a substantial part of the resources of
                 primary health services can become channeled to implementing the family planning
                 program, to the relative neglect of RCH services.   9/




                 When these countries seek to change their orientation towards RCH services, one problem
                 they face is that their service delivery systems are not adept at eliciting and responding to
                 clients' needs. Moreover, many of their clients are not accustomed to seeking RCH
                 services on a routine (non-emergency) basis. One solution has been to have field outreach
                 staff actively identify women who need these services but this approach is not only
                 expensive, but also inclined to miss those who are socially or geographically marginalized.
                 Another approach (potentially more cost-effective) is to generate demand for the services,
                 in tandem with actual service delivery.

                 This project's special RCH campaigns illustrate how effective the latter approach can be.
                 These consisted of having mobile teams spend a few days in a place to provide services
                 preceded by extensive efforts to inform communities about when and where the team
                 would come, what services they would provide, and what kind of health conditions should
                 make people think they could benefit from these services. Done under the NPFP, these are
                 viewed as an excellent way of getting services to those with limited geographical and
                 financial access to clinical services, and raising awareness of the need for these services
                 (para. 4.2).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

         The Ministry of Health provided comments, which are included below.

         The PFH project has been a successful population and family health promotion program because
it was designed to increase the access of people, especially women in difficult areas to reproductive health
service. Almost all demographic targets have been achieved, particularly the reduction of total fertility
rate, infant mortality rate, and population growth rate. It was especially successful in changing behavior of
people from family planning into reproductive health. Millions of women have accessed reproductive
health services campaigns during the project. These campaigns are of high quality because they took place
at the end of the project when health facilities were well equipped and medical workers at provincial,
district and commune levels were well retrained. After the project, the Government has taken up the model
and investment to sustain it. The Government also approved the reproductive strategy to 2010 to promote
reproductive health for Vietnamese people.

         The project has been implemented in the transitional period in Vietnam (1996-2003). It helps in
building up management capacity for population workers, especially project staff, in the line of Bank's
regulations in procurement and disbursement. The PMU has become a model for effective loan project
management in the social sector in Vietnam. However, low payment to PMU staff (government salary)
created big turnover of personnel, making an unstable staff situation for the PMU. This issue should be
considered in the future if the World Bank wants to have more effective projects in Vietnam. The challenge



                                                      - 16 -

now is how achievements made under PFH project can be sustained and to identify possible sources of
funding to support them as the government fund is not sufficient.

         Co-financiers. The PFH project was co-financed by the World Bank, ADB and KfW. By
co-financing, it had large resources to cover a large project area (20 provinces) and complicated project
components (five components). Project areas have gained synchronized benefits from comprehensive
investments. The PMU has a chance to work and compete in the international environment. This has
sharpened competence and skills of the staff. The co-financing would have lessened the workload for the
PMU if they had come at the same time for supervision missions.

         Other Partners (NGOs/ private sector). The coordination with the Ministry of Health in project
design and implementation is crucial for project success. The coordination is needed not only at the policy
making level (central) but also at implementing level (province, district, commune). The participation from
mass organization as Womens' union, Youth union and NGOs in the implementation of several models
under the PFH project, especially during the reproductive campaigns, is a real contribution to the success
of the project.

         The private sector: The PFH project initiated the set up of the health private association in Hai
duong province and helped the Ministry of Health to reform the regulations for health private practitioners.
This will accelerate the development of private health sector in Vietnam.

(b) Cofinanciers:

         The Asian Development Bank and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbru (KfW) were co-financiers.

Asian Development Bank. ADB provided detailed comments on the draft Implementation Completion
Report, which are provided below.

         With keen interest we have reviewed the ICR for referred Project. We would like to congratulate
the authors for a comprehensive and analytical ICR, which provides a valuable basis for future social
sector policy development and investment.

         ADB has not yet completed its review of the same Project. However, based on our loan reviews we
also expect to rate the Project as satisfactory, given its likely impact and overall improvement in social
services. ADB has a somewhat different rating system. Following your rating system, we would probably
rate the physical and financial achievements as highly satisfactory. We are less convinced of the impact of
the project on sector policies and institutional development.

         Your report rightly emphasizes the exemplary leadership of the Executing Agency, the National
Committee for Population and Family Planning. However, the future role of this Committee is uncertain,
and, given its major role in expanding family planning services, we are concerned about the sustainability
of current capacity to lead the sector. We do, however, agree that during the project period, major
institutional development was achieved. We also note that the project design was subsequently replicated,
with the Ministry of Health as the Executing Agency, reflecting the new role of the Committee.

         The Project focused on developing basic health and family planning services. At the time the
Project was approved, the HIV/AIDS epidemic was emerging and health sector financing and the
decentralization of health services were major issues. The Project design gives little attention to these
features, perhaps reflecting the organization of the health sector. Future projects, however, will need to



                                                      - 17 -

address these aspects in their design.

         We highly appreciate the outreach systems that have been developed for hard-to-reach populations,
comparable to similarly successful efforts in Iran and other countries. We also appreciate that during the
life of the Project, both the Government and the World Bank were prepared to adjust the scope, design and
implementation arrangements according to the changing needs and learning going on. For example, the IEC
design was actually improved during project implementation. Such flexibility no doubt contributed to the
impact of the Project.

         Only few objectives were not fully accomplished in an otherwise highly successful project. These
include the continuing high level of reliance on IUDs and menstrual regulation as methods of contraception.
Given their gender implications, more efforts should have been made to change the contraceptive mix.
Another less successful area is the management information system, a typical problem for many projects.
ADB will also want to examine the contributions of the Project to health sector management, given that the
Executing Agency had to work through other institutions. As per statement in the Final Report, the Project
"has contributed to an open-minded policy toward cooperation with other institutions, which has been rare
in Vietnam and deserves imitation." This kind of cooperation should therefore be advocated in government
and party circles.

Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbru (KfW). KfW's parallel co-financing support to the Bank-financed PFH
Project comprised contraceptive commodities, and was implemented as part of its overall Vietnam Health
and Family Planning Programs I and II (Programs I and II were implemented from 1995-1999 and
1999-2003, respectively; Program III began in 2003). KfW will carry out the final evaluation of Program I
in June 2004. In the interim, KfW provided summary comments on its role under the PFH Project,
included below.

         Two main recommendations concluded from the experience of the Program I are: First, the logistic
system needs further improvement in order to allow for demand-based ordering and distribution. Second,
the increasing potential to use private market channels for oral contraceptives through social marketing
should be tapped. Based on the lessons learned out of the first program KfW financed the implementation
of a computerized Logistic Management Information System for the Vietnamese Committee for Population,
Family and Children (VCPFC). The objective is to improve forecasting of commodity needs and to allow
for a demand based ordering and distribution. In Program III a larger share of the oral contraceptives is
supplied through Social Marketing, focussing the free distribution on poorer women in remote areas.
Currently VCPFC is conducting studies on the willingness and ability of costumers to pay for family
planning services and on the improvement of market segmentation. In order to better reach adolescents a
concept for implementation is currently being developed.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Need for further donor support:

         A strategic vision for the population-family health sector needs to take into account the fact that
much has already been achieved on these fronts in Vietnam. However, there are certain pockets of the
population which have yet to be fully reached, so future projects should be targeted specifically towards
these groups. In particular, the ethnic minorities and those living in remote areas have a continued need for
social sector support.



                                                    - 18 -

        The Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 1997 found the total fertility rate (TFR) was 4.03 for
minority ethnic regions, and 1.86 for majority ethnic regions.10/Outcomes are poorest amongst those living
in remote mountainous areas: here the majority ethnic group have an Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) of 37
compared with 21 nation-wide, and the minorities have an IMR of 71 compared with 55 nation-wide.         11/


Similar analysis needs to be done on the DHS 2002 to obtain more recent figures.

        Several areas of potential support deserve attention, which would be consistent with the Vietnam
Population Strategy 2001-2010, prepared by the NCPFP, as also the MoH's National Strategy on
Reproductive Health Care for the 2001-2010 period:

       l An assessment could be made of the need for improving the availability of clinical facilities
            and other aspects of routine FP-RCH service delivery in regions populated by ethnic
            minorities, or remote regions. If these regions are still underserved, several components of the
            NPFP could be implemented in these regions.
       l There is likely to be a continuing need for the NPFP's special RCH campaigns amongst
            disadvantaged populations. This could be targeted towards specific provinces where a high
            proportion of population live in mountainous and remote areas.    12/Alternatively, it could be
            targeted towards the minority groups and other disadvantaged pockets in many provinces of the
            country.
       l There may be a need for continuing support for some other aspects of the NPFP, which are not
            adequately funded after the end of the project (para. 6.2). These include the IEC/BCC
            program and the medical re-training program. It could also be helpful to set up the MIS
            system which was developed under the NPFP but could not be established for lack of time
            remaining in the project.
       l There may be need for other inter-sectoral campaigns on certain aspects of family health.
            Discussions in Hanoi with the ADB and the PMU suggested that the prevalence of low weight
            amongst children could be reduced by changing child nutrition practices. Campaigns are also
            needed on adolescent reproductive health.




                                                    - 19 -

Endnotes

 1. Survey data showing trends in facility utilization rates have been hard to find.
 2. The Defence Ministry was used not only to reach military personnel and their families, but also to
    reach populations living in mountainous and inaccessible places.
 3. The trend is clear, though the exact levels are a little confused by the DHS' tendency to under-record
    recent births for reasons of survey design. The country's own estimates of its current TFR is closer to
    the 2.05 estimated in the UN's low variant projection for 2000-05.
 4. While the precise levels are uncertain from the DHS (which acknowledges that its IMR estimates are
    far too low), the trend of continuing decline in the IMR is clear.
 5. This is defined as having received BCG, 3 DPT shots, 3 polio shots, and measles vaccine.
 6. For example, the target fertility rate for 2002 had already been achieved; infant mortality was close to
    the target; infant immunization rates had increased sharply during the decade before the project began;
    and over 75% of women were currently contracepting by 1997.
 7. The data in this section are taken largely from the Final Evaluation Report prepared by the Futures
    Group in the United States, in collaboration with the CSDS and the Market and Development Research
    Center in Hanoi.
 8. As reported by the PMU and by the (now-retired) leader of the Committee, Professor Mai Ky. The
    response of the government and the Bank as stated in this para are also from these sources. The QAG
    team also noted this problem.
 9. Of course, having fewer children results in large improvements in maternal and child health.
10. Page 30 of in-depth analysis monograph "Fertility Changes and the Factors affecting Fertility Decline".
11. There are also large differences between women in the lowest and highest income quintiles: a TFR of
    4.04 versus 1.19; an IMR of 48 versus 23; 46% versus 79% receiving prenatal care; and 56% versus
    92% delivering with a qualified birth attendant. Source: ADB Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire,
    citing the 1998 Viet Nam Living Standards Survey.
12. According to the 1999 Census, the TFR in these regions is around 3.7, compared with 2.3 in Vietnam
    as a whole, and the IMR is around 58 compared with 37 in Vietnam as a whole.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. National decline in the Total Fertility Rate to Declined to 1.9                            Declined to 1.87
below 2.5 by 2002
2. National increase in Contraceptive              Increased to 56.7%                         Increased to 57%
Prevalence Rate for modern methods to 56%
by 2002
3. National reduction of 30% in the Total          Increase of 9.2%                           Increase of 15% (possibly non-statistically
Abortion Rate by 2002                                                                         significant due to well-known problems on
                                                                                              data collection on abortion)
4. National decline in the Infant Mortality Rate Decline to 18.2                              Decline to 18
to 25 by 2002
5. National increase in the share of temporary Share is 22%                                   Share is 12.5%
short-term and supply-based contraceptive
methods (pills, condoms, injectables) to 25%
by 2002
6. National improvement in access to an            N/A                                        1. Community Based FP Services*:
adequate range of family planning (FP)                                                        a) Community Based Distribution Worker
services by 2002                                                                              present in community**: 96.6% non-project
                                                                                              provinces (NPP); 93.2% project provinces
                                                                                              (PP).
                                                                                              b) FP Fieldworker present in community:
                                                                                              98.4% NPP; 94.2% PP.
                                                                                              c) Mobile FP Clinic visits community: 77.3%
                                                                                              NPP; 60.2% PP.
                                                                                              d) FP Campaign in the Last Year: 89.7%
                                                                                              NPP; 95.9% PP.

                                                                                              2. % distribution of currently married women
                                                                                              15-49 by distance to nearest FP provider:
                                                                                              a) < 1 km: 66.8% NPP; 58.8% PP.
                                                                                              b) 1-4 km: 27.3% NPP; 31.5% PP.
                                                                                              c) 5-9 km: 5.9% NPP; 8.5% PP.
                                                                                              d) 15-29 km: 0.0% NPP; 1.2% PP.
7. Improvement in utilization of community         Pre-natal provider is a doctor, nurse or   Pre-natal provider is a doctor, nurse or
health center facilities for prenatal care in the  midwife: 83% in project provinces          midwife: 83% in project provinces
project provinces by 2002
8. Improvement in the met need for life-saving Deliveries at a health facility in project     - 85% of pregnant women vaccinated with
obstetric care in the project provinces by 2002 provinces: 75%                                tetanus vaccine
                                                                                              - 86% of pregnant women have regular
                                                                                              prenatal checks at communal health centers
                                                                                              - 85% deliveries are assisted by trained health
                                                                                              staff
                                                                                              - Maternal Mortality Rate is 50 per 100,000
                                                                                              births
9. Increase in the percent of infants who are      63.9% in project provinces                 66.7% in project provinces***
fully immunized in the project provinces, from
50.1%
Notes:          *      Percentage of currently married women 15-49 living in communities that receive such services.
                ** Community Based Distribution Workers provide pills and condoms to women in the communities they visit.
                *** DHS 2002 lists 66.7% nation-wide, and states that there is little difference between project and non-project
                       provinces.
                1 End of project




                                                                    - 21 -

                                                                                           Attachment 1


A.  Trends in Fertility and Mortality in Vietnam


                            Table 1: Total Fertility Rate, 1960-2005


                  UN Estimates                             Vietnam census and surveys
        Period               Estimate                  Estimate + Date             Sources
    1960-1965                  7.25
    1965-1970                  7.25
    1970-1975                  6.70
    1975-1980                  5.89
    1980-1985                  4.50
    1985-1990                  4.02                 3.98 (1987)                DHS 198
                                                    3.80 (1988-89)             Census 1989
    1990-1995                  3.30                 3.25(1989-93)              ICDS
                                                    2.67 (1992-96)             DHS 1998
    1995-2000                  2.50                 2.33 (1998-99)             Census 1999
    2000-2005      Medium variant     2.30
    (projections)  Low variant       2.05           1.87 (1998-2002)           DHS 2002
    * The DHS tends to under-record recent births for reasons of survey design.


                          Table 2: Infant Mortality Rate, 1960-2005

         Period      UN Estimates                     Vietnam Censuses and Surveys
    1960-1965            130.4
    1965-1970             117.9
    1970-1975             106.7
    1975-1980             82.5
    1980-1985             70.4
    1985-1990             55.9
    1990-1995             47.4                 29.6      (DHS 1997, for period 1992-96)
    1995-2000             40.1                 36.7      (Census 1999, for period 1998-99)
    2000-2005             33.6                 18.2      (DHS 2002, for period 1998-2002)*
    * The DHS acknowledges that its IMR estimates are far too low.


              Table 3: Mortality Under Age 5 by Sex, 1995-2005 (UN Estimates)

        Period       Both sexes      Male (per       Female (per
                  combined (per     1,000 male      1,000 female
                   1,000 births)      births)           births)
      1995-2000         56              64                48
      2000-2005         45              52                37




                                                 - 22 -

     Table 4: Life Expectancy at Birth by Sex, 1960-2005 (UN Estimates)

 Period     Both sexes     Male          Female
            combined
1960-1965     45.4         43.5           47.4
1965-1970     47.8         45.7           50.2
1970-1975     50.3         47.7           53.1
1975-1980     55.8         53.7           58.1
1980-1985     58.7         56.7           61.1
1985-1990     62.6         60.6           64.8
1990-1995     64.9         62.9           67.3
1995-2000     67.2         64.9           69.6
2000-2005     69.2         66.9           71.6




                                   - 23 -

B.     Trends in Reproductive and Child Health Indicators


Table 1: Percentage Of Children 12-23 Months, Who Have Received Specific Vaccines During Their
                                            First Year Of Life

                                            % of children who received
              BCG       DPT1      DPT2    DPT3+     Polio1     Polio2    Polio3+    Measles    All None
    DHS       87.1       90.7      86.9     65.1     93.6      86.9        60.4       67.5    50.4  4.9
    1997
    DHS       90.9       85.7      80.0     67.6     91.1      85.3        73.1       77.0    58.1  6.3
    2002
  * This is defined as having received BCG, 3 DPT shots, 3 polio shots, and measles vaccine.



Table 2: Percentage of Live Births in 3 Years Preceding The Survey, by Source of Antenatal Care

                                    Source
              Doctor             Trained          Traditional           No-one
                             Nurse/Midwife            Birth
                                                   Attendant
   DHS           24.5              46.1                1.1                28.3
   1997
   DHS           46.4              40.0                0.3                13.2
   2002



   Table 3: Percentage of Live Births in 3 years Preceding the Survey, by Place of Delivery

                    Place of Delivery

            Health Facility           Home
   DHS               61.7              38.3
   1997
   DHS               78.5              21.3
   2002



Table 4: Percentage of Live Births in 3 Years Receding the Survey, by Type of Assistance at
Delivery

                                               Type of Assistance
              Doctor            Trained          Traditional        Relative/            No-one/
                            Nurse/Midwife            Birth            Other      Don't Know/ Missing
                                                  Attendant
   DHS          27.0             50.1                11.9               10.9                0.2
   1997
   DHS          49.7             35.3                 5.3               9.5                 0.1
   2002



                                                   - 24 -

 Table 5: Percentage of Currently-Married Women by Contraceptive Method Currently Used

            Any          Any      Pill   IUD      Condom      Injectables Tubectomy Vasectomy   Any
          Method      Modern                                                                  Traditional
                       Method                                                                  Method
 DHS         75.3        55.8     4.3   38.5         5.9         0.2         6.3       0.5      19.2
 1997
 DHS         78.5        56.7     6.3   37.7         5.8         0.4         5.9       0.5      21.8
 2002
* Including periodic abstinence, withdrawal, and other methods




                                                   - 25 -

C.      Selected Training Output Indicators

 Table 1: Percentage of Reproductive Health Workers Who Received At Least One Training within
                                         the Last Five Years


              Training Topic                  Non-Project Province         Project Province
Ante-natal Care                                       61.7                      95.5
Delivery                                              59.6                      95.5
Newborn Care                                          55.3                      97.7
Post-partum Care                                      59.6                      93.2
Pill Counseling                                       72.3                      90.9
Condom Counseling                                     72.3                      93.2
Intra-uterine Device Insertion                        72.3                      90.9
Injectable                                            53.2                      77.3
Implant                                               10.6                      27.3
Family Planning Counseling                            70.2                      90.9
Adolescent Reproductive Health Services               29.8                      75.0
Adolescent Counseling                                 36.2                      72.7
Reproductive Tract Infection Diagnosis                55.3                      93.2
and Treatment
STI/HIV Counseling                                    59.6                      90.9
Menstrual Regulation                                  48.9                      70.5
Abortion                                              46.8                      72.7

Table 2: Mean Scores Attained by Reproductive Health Staff in the Community Health Centres for
                          Correct Answers to Reproductive Health Questions

                        Pregnancy     Monitor      Abnormal     Mother and  Scenarios in     IUD
                           Exam       Normal      Scenarios in   Newborn    Mother and     Insertion
                                      Delivery      Delivery      Care       Newborn
                                                                               Care
Project Province           23.70       6.52           7.95         8.16        8.53          14.0
Non-Project Province       23.45       6.45           7.89         8.11        8.17          15.2
Total Score                  35          7             15           9           10            22

                            General   Post-Partum       STI       RTI/STI    ARH         Clients'
                        Reproductive   Counseling    Counseling  Counseling Services   Reproductive
                            Health                                                     Health Rights
                          Counseling
Project Province             8.05          6.07         4.79       5.35      3.53          4.12
Non-Project Province         7.46          6.39         4.52       5.94      3.29          3.80
Total Score                   15            8           15           8         7            10




                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                         US$ million  US$ million
A. Provincial Level Service Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading                                     20.50         15.57             76
2. Equipment Provision                                    17.60         39.79            226
3. Essential Drug Supply                                  13.70           2.27            17
4. In-service Training                                     3.50           3.77           108
5. Outreach Strengthening                                  6.50           0.00             0
B. National Level Program
1. Strengthening FP IEC                                   12.90           9.97            77
2. Contraceptives Supply                                  24.20         20.35             84
3. Management and Institutional Development                5.50           3.84            70
4. FP Service Delivery Model Initiative                    6.00         11.99            200

Total Baseline Cost                                      110.40        107.55
 Physical Contingencies                                    3.80
 Price Contingencies                                      15.50
                        Total Project Costs              129.70        107.55
                  Total Financing Required               129.70        107.55




                                                - 27 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

        Expenditure                                Procurement                         N.B.F. 3/          Total
         Category                                     Method                                              Cost
                                        ICB            NCB            Other   2/


1. Civil Works                          0.00           19.70             3.90              0.00           23.60
                                       (0.00)          (5.40)           (1.00)           (0.00)           (6.40)
2. Goods
a. Materials and Equipment             16.40            8.40             4.90             0.00            29.70
                                       (6.70)          (4.50)           (4.60)           (0.00)          (15.80)
b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals             14.80            0.00             0.00              0.00           14.80
                                       (4.90)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (4.90)
c. Contraceptives                       3.00            0.00             0.00             20.00           23.00
                                       (3.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (3.00)
3. Training and Technical
Assistance:
a. Training                             0.00            0.00             5.80             0.00             5.80
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (4.30)           (0.00)           (4.30)
b. Technical Assistance                 0.00            0.00             5.10             0.00             5.10
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (4.90)           (0.00)           (4.90)
4. Outreach Workers                     0.00            0.00             8.70             0.00             8.70
Allowance
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (6.10)           (0.00)           (6.10)
5. Operating Cost                       0.00            0.00             1.10             0.00             1.10
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.60)           (0.00)           (0.60)
6. Studies and Pilots                   0.00            0.00             8.00             0.00             8.00
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (4.00)           (0.00)           (4.00)
7. Maintenance for Civil                0.00            0.00             0.00              4.20            4.20
Works and Equipment
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
8. Logistics                            0.00            0.00             0.00              5.60            5.60
                                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                               34.20           28.10            37.50             29.80           129.60
                                      (14.60)          (9.90)          (25.50)            (0.00)         (50.00)
Notes: 1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
       2/ Others  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
       services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
       incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
       government units.
       3/ NBF  Not Bank financed.
       Differences due to rounding.
       Exchange Rate : 1 USD = 11,018 Vietnamese Dong (November 1995).




                                                      - 28 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

        Expenditure                                Procurement                         N.B.F. 3/          Total
         Category                                     Method                                              Cost
                                        ICB            NCB            Other   2/


1. Civil Works                          0.00           14.98             0.42             0.00             15.40
2. Goods
a. Materials and Equipment             32.85            2.63             0.00             0.00            35.48
b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals              2.07            0.00             0.00             0.00             2.07
c. Contraceptives                      19.28            0.00             0.00             0.00            19.28
3. Training and Technical
Assistance:
a. Training                             0.00            1.78            10.75             0.00            12.53
b. Technical Assistance                 1.20            0.00            2.97              0.00             4.17
4. Outreach Workers                     0.00            0.00            8.70              0.00             8.70
Allowance
5. Operating Cost                       0.00            0.00            0.88              0.00             0.88
6. Studies and Pilots                   0.00            1.60            10.40             0.00            12.00
7. Maintenance for Civil                0.00            0.00             0.17             0.00             0.17
Works and Equipment
8. Logistics                            0.00            5.58             0.00             0.00             5.58
9. Service Fee                          0.00            0.00             1.30             0.00             1.30
Total                                   55.4           26.57            26.89             0.00            108.86
Notes: 1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
       2/ Others  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
       services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
       incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
       government units.
       3/ NBF  Not Bank financed.
       Differences due to rounding.
       Exchange Rate : 1 USD = 15,566 Vietnamese Dong (April 2004).




                                                      - 29 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA        Govt.      CoF.       IDA         Govt.     CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
A. Provincial Level Service
Delivery
1. Facility Upgrading        6.20       3.80      14.90       5.55        1.45      8.57  89.5    38.2    57.5
2. Equipment Provision       5.00       5.00      10.20       14.21       4.31     21.27  284.2   86.2   208.5
3. Essential Drug Supply     4.90       1.30      10.00       0.85        0.21      1.21  17.3    16.2    12.1
4. In-service Training       2.50       0.10       1.90       1.92        0.20      1.65  76.8   200.0    86.8
5. Outreach Strengthening    6.30       2.70       0.00                                   0.0     0.0     0.0
B. National Level Program
1. Strengthening FP IEC     13.90       2.90       0.00       7.15        2.82            51.4    97.2    0.0
2. Contraceptive Supply      3.00       2.30      20.00       5.30        1.07     13.98  176.7   46.5    69.9
3. Management and            6.20       0.50       0.00       3.29        0.31      0.24  53.1    62.0    0.0
Institutional Development
4. FP Service Delivery       2.00       0.00       4.00       6.32        0.47      5.20  316.0   0.0    130.0
Model Initiative
Total                       50.00       18.60     61.00       44.59      10.84     53.43  89.2    58.3    87.6

   Appraisal Estimate Exchange Rate : 1 USD = 11,018 Vietnamese Dong (November 1995).
   Project Closing Exchange Rate : 1 USD = 15,566 Vietnamese Dong (April 2004).




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


An economic rate of return was not estimated for the project at the time of appraisal, nor was it
calculated after its closure.




                                               - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year        Count             Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               05/22/1993                        7    PS; PS; MN; MC; OO; EC; ES
               11/01/1993                        6    PS; EC; PH; PO; PS; MC.
               02/22/1994                        8    PS; EC; CS; PH; PH; HE; HS;
                                                      ED
               08/14/2004                        6    PS; PS; DE; PH; PH; PF
               11/14/1994                        6    EC; PS; PH; FM; AR; PH.
               03/17/1995                        9    EC; PS; PH; HR; PR; AR; OO;
                                                      AR; TR.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/29/1995                      10     PS; PH; EC; CA; PO; DO;
                                                      ME; PR; PS; OO.

 Supervision
               06/29/1996                        6    PS; AR; PO; OO; IE; PH.                S              S
               11/23/1996                        5    PS; AR; IE; OO; PH.                    S              S
               05/19/1997                        5    PS; AR; IE; OO; PH.                    U              S
               11/25/1997                        5    PS; AR; OO; PH; IE.                    S              S
               07/13/1998                        5    PS; AR; OO; PH; IE.                    S              S
               07/01/1998                        5    PS; AR; OO; PH; IE.                    S              S
               12/17/1999                        4    OO; OO; HS; BC.                        S              S
               06/26/2000                        3    OO; OO; HS.                            S              S
               10/20/2000                        4    OO; OO; HS; OO.                        S              S
               02/21/2001                        3    OO; OO; HS.                            S              S
               10/22/2001                        4    OO; OO; HS; OO.                        S              S
               05/20/2002                        3    OO; OO; HS.                            S              S
               12/06/2002                        5    OO; OO; PO; HS; FM.                    S              S
               06/30/2003                        2    OO; OO.                                S              S

 ICR
               01/31/2004                        2    SS; EC.                                S              S


Specialist Skills:
AR = Architect; BC = Behavioral Change Communications Specialist; CA = Cost Analyst; CS = Communications
Specialist;
DE = Demographer; DO = Disbursement Officer; EC = Economist; ED = Early Childhood Development
Specialist; ES = Education Specialist; FM = Financial Management Specialist; HE = Health Economist; HR =
Human Resources Specialist; HS = Health Systems Management and Delivery Specialist; IE = Information,
Education and Communication Specialist; MN = Management Development Specialist; MC = Maternal and Child
Health Specialist; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; OO = Operations Officer;
PF = Public Finance Specialist; PH = Public Health Specialist; PO = Procurement Officer; PR = Pharmaceutical
Specialist;
PS = Population Specialist; SS = Social Scientist; TR = Training Specialist.




                                                      - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                          1,242
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                            NA
  Supervision                            NA                            666
  ICR                                    NA
  Total                                                              1,908




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Agriculture Publishing House, Vietnam. Sustainable Development in Mountainous area in Vietnam:
    10 Year Review and Problems. 2002.
 2. Futures Group International, the Center for Social and Development Studies, and the Market and
    Development Research Center. Evaluation Report for the Family Health Project, submitted to the
    Program Management Unit, National Committee for Population and Family Planning. September 23,
    2003.
 3. Ministry of Health, Vietnam. National Strategy on Reproductive Health Care for the 2001-2010
    Period. 2001.
 4. National Centre for Social Sciences and Humanities, Vietnam. National Human Development Report.
 5. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Vietnam. Demographic and Health Survey:
    1997. March 1999.
 6. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Vietnam. Demographic and Health Survey:
    2002. September 2003.
 7. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Vietnam. In-depth analyses of the Vietnam
    Demographic and Health Survey: 1997. 2000.
   l Quality of Family Planning Services and Contraceptive Use
   l Utilization of Commune Health Centers for Antenatal Care
   l Childhood Immunization
   l Reproductive Health of Minorities living in Remote Areas
   l Knowledge, Attitude and Practice on Family Planning
   l Fertility Changes and the Factors Affecting Fertility Decline
 8. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Vietnam. Project Completion Report.
    September 2003.
 9. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Vietnam. Vietnam Population Strategy
    2001-2010. 2001.
10. National Committee for Population and Family Planning, Centre for Population Studies and
    Information, Vietnam. Selected data of some censuses and general surveys servicing population-family
    planning activities. 1998.
11. National Health Survey, Hanoi. 2002.
12. Statistical Publishing House, Vietnam. Marriage, Fertility and Mortality in Vietnam: Levels, Trends
    and Differentials. 2001.
13. United Nations demographic estimates (http://esa.un.org/unpp/).
14. Vietnam Census. 1989.
15. Vietnam Census. 1999.
16. Vietnam Intercensal Demographic Survey: 1994: The Main Findings. 1995.
17. Vietnam Living Standards Survey: 1998.
18. World Bank. Aide-memoires from the Pre-appraisal Mission and from Supervision Missions.
19. World Bank. Vietnam Population and Family Health Project. Mid-term Review Report. December
    1999.
20. World Bank. Vietnam Population and Family Health Project. Quality of Entry Report. 1998.
21. World Bank. Vietnam Population and Family Health Project. Staff Appraisal Report. December 22,
    1995.
22. World Publishing House, Vietnam. 1999 Population and Housing Census: Sample Results. 2000.




                                                  - 36 -

- 37 -

