                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                         Report No: 30995




                            PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                           MEXICO

       E-BUSINESS FOR SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                       (Loan 71880-MX)

                                      December 21, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit (LCSFP)
Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela Country Management Unit (LCC1C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

    (Exchange Rate Effective December 14, 2004)

          Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
               1 Peso = US$0.089
               US$1 = 11.17 Pesos


                 FISCAL YEAR

             January 1 - December 31

     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDS      Business development services
ICT      Information and communications technology
ME       Ministry of Economy
MSBs     Micro and small businesses
NAFIN    National Development Bank (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
SHCP     Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Publico)




        Vice President:    David de Ferranti
       Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
         Sector Director: John Stein
          Task Manager: James Hanna

                            PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                        MEXICO

           E-BUSINESS FOR SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


1.      This is the Project Completion Note for the e-Business for Small Business
Development Project. The Project was presented to and approved by the Board on July
31, 2003 (Report No: 25959). Total project costs were estimated at $100.8 million, of
which the Bank loan was to have supported US$58.4 million. The Loan Agreement was
signed at the Annual Meetings in September 2003. After the loan effectiveness date was
extended twice, the loan was cancelled following receipt on June 2, 2004 of a request
from the Government of Mexico to do so in the absence of available budget of the
executing entity, e-Mexico.

2.      The Project aimed to help increase the competitiveness and growth of micro and
small businesses (MSBs) in poor urban areas of Mexico through the adoption of e-
business. This was to be achieved through two components. The first was to focus on
building an e-business development services markets for MSBs via (a) an e-business
benefits awareness program, (b) an e-learning and innovation program providing
demand-side matching grants for business development services (BDS) providing
information, training, market access and technology appropriate to MSB needs to adopt
e-business solutions, (c) a supply-side business centers innovation pilot in ICT-based
BDS providing distance learning, new market access, management tools, and online
trading to reduce transaction costs, and (d) an E-BDS innovation pilot for the promotion
of new employment of urban at-risk youth through ICT-based training and job placement.
The second component targeted improvements in MSB access to ICT infrastructure and
e-government business services by (a) extending Internet services to MSBs and to
reducing regulations so as to increase innovation and competitiveness, and (b)
simplifying institutional practices associated with business regulations involving
registration, operating licenses and inspections, labor and tax registration and Internet-
enabling government services.

3.      Following loan signing, progress was made steadily toward completion of loan
effectiveness conditions. An operational manual was prepared satisfactory to the Bank
and arrangements were made for the Project's administrative, financial and accounting
system. Satisfactory candidates and facilities were identified for the establishment of the
Project Coordination Unit and to fulfil the positions of Project manager, procurement
specialist and financial management specialist. Draft agreements were also completed
between the Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, or SHCP)
and e-Mexico to govern management of the loan, and between e-Mexico and the national
development bank (Nacional Financiera or NAFIN) for administrative support during
Project implementation.

4.     In spite of the full commitment of e-Mexico, NAFIN and SHCP through Project
appraisal and loan negotiation, approval and signing and of continuous efforts to achieve
loan effectiveness, the Ministry of Communications and Transport (within which e-
Mexico resides) reversed its support for the Project in late 2003 due to internal budget
conflicts. Given the Government's policy in which no budget additionality is provided to
an executing agency from the conclusion of a Bank loan---indeed, in which agreement to
execute activities under a Bank-financed project may imply having to cut back on other
programs---the Ministry turned to the Ministry of Economic Development (SE) and
requested that it execute the Project since it involved small business development. SE
undertook a review of the content of the Project from the perspective of an executing
agency and sought current and future years funding from SHCP to ensure its ability to do
so. An intensive exchange was undertaken with SE to adjust the Project contents to be
consistent with and supportive of SE's other small business programs, and satisfactory
modifications consistent with the existing Project objective were achieved. Funds were
also found by SHCP to meet Project expenditure needs for 2004. However, given
SHCP's policy of non-additionality, assurances were not provided to SE on future years
resources. Thus, the decision was made by SE not to execute the Project and e-Mexico
subsequently requested SHCP to cancel the loan.

