Report No. PID11210
Project Name             Mexico-Urban Microbusiness
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Privatization
Project ID               MXPE68290
Implementing Agency
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), S.N.C.
Address: Insurgentes Sur, 1971,
Mexico D.F.
Tel: 52-5-325-6000
Fax: 52-5-325-7097
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        May 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 11, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 15, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Mexico is currently among the most economically unequal countries in the
world. Source: World Development Indicators, The World Bank, 2001. The
productive sector continues to be characterized by a dual structure that
seems to have become increasingly differentiated in the wake of trade
liberalization and the banking crisis of the 1990s. While Mexico has a
dynamic export sector made up of internationally competitive conglomerates
experiencing a boom in trade, the export base has remained rather narrow
and concentrated in few larger firms. Its poor integration with the
domestic economy, which is constituted mainly by micro and small
businesses, is reflected in the fact that only 4t of inputs to the export
sector are provided by local Mexican firms. Much of this inequality falls
in urban areas. Three-quarters of Mexico's population live in cities.
The Federal District (D.F.), alone, has an estimated 8.6 million people
within District limits. A total of nearly 22 million people live in the
Mexico Valle, or about 25t of the nation's total urban population.
Intermediate cities (each between 0.5 and 4 million persons) grew at more
than 3t per annum over the last decade and now account for nearly 40t of
the urban population. Eighty-five percent of the country's GDP is
produced in urban areas, where nine-tenths of GDP growth was also
generated over the last decade. Cities are also where two-thirds of the
country's poor live. Today, 35 million poor individuals live in cities
and account for 64t of the country's total poor; about 12 million of these
are the country's extreme poor. From an regional perspective, 55t of the
urban poor are found in the Federal District and the country's Central
Region, including Jalisco, Michoacan, Mexico, Puebla and Veracruz. Within
cities, the poor tend to be concentrated in informal settlements on the
outer rings of growing agglomerations, and over half of the urban poor
work in the informal sector. In these areas, female-headed households
absent other adults, poor youth at risk, and crime and violence are
particularly evident. Integrating them progressively into the formal
economy and improving their earning abilities and quality of life are
essential elements to reducing poverty rates and making cities more
competitive and livable for all.



2. Objectives
The Project would support the increased competitiveness and growth of
micro and small businesses (MSBs) in poor urban areas of Mexico. The
definition of MSBs for Project purposes is that used by the Government's
statistical institute, INEGI, which is based on the number of firm
employees: microbusinesses are those where entrepreneurs are
self-employed or have up to 15 employees; small businesses are those with
16-100 employees. The Project's specific development objectives would to
(i) expand financial services and business development services markets
for MSBs, and (ii) reduce the transaction costs of public sector
requirements to establish and operate MSBs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government and NAFIN view the Bank's main role as helping to (i)
leverage existing programs by increasing analytical work, cross-country
experience and internal dialogue on key MSB policy and institutional
development issues, (ii) ensure that the MSB agenda is closely linked with
social objectives, and that policy/institutional analyses and program
development incorporate the interests of a wide spectrum of socio-economic
groups in Mexico, and (iii) help to strengthen NAFIN programs by
emphasizing market development of services and deepening public-private
cooperation in program implementation.
4. Description
The proposed Project would contain the three components aimed to
substantially increase access to sustainable financial and business
development services, and to improve the business climate for
microbusiness investment and operation.
(l)Build MSB financial markets
(la) Capacity-building for MSB lending - short-term techincal assistance
course, seminars on best practice toos & materials, exchanges,
Institutional Development Matching Grants & Innovation Grants to help
expand MSB lending institutional capacity for at least 15 non-bank and
banking institutions.
(lb) Credit program for MSB lending- Expand outreach & sustainability
among non-bank & commercial banking institutions meeting Project
eligibility criteria & committed to institutional development programs to
build MSB lending.
(2) Build MSB business development services markets
(2a) Competitiveness learning & innovation program - (a) establisha
temporary Program to provide (i) promotion to MSBs on BDS uses & benefits,
(ii) continous technical assistance to firms on developing & implementing
competitiveness plans, (iii) a 50-50 matching grant window for small
business based on individually approved competitiveness plans, and (iv) an
80-20 matching voucher window for low-income microbusinesses; and (b) a
Program client assistance and management contract to implement the Program;
(2b) BDS innovation pilot: demonstrate broad outreach & sustainability in
ICT-based BDS services and delivery technical services, equipment & works
to build on existing initiatives a prototype network of ICT-based business
development centers providing skills-appropriate business training,
product marketing, & information technology services;
(2c) BDS innovation pilot - MSB youth apprenticheships for employment
promotion - technical services to demonstrate mechanisms to facilitate the
transition from unemployment to work through integrated processes of
counseling, job preparation, and on-the-job apprenticeships in MSBs.
-2 -



(3) Improve MSB Investment & operating climate
(3a) G2MSB program to reduce barriers to business formation and operations
- technical assistance, equipment & works to re-engineer and deliver
electronically government services associated with business registration,
licensing and permits, labor and tax ragulations, zoning restrictions and
the like.
(4) Management Unit (operational expenditures)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $9.10
IBRD                     $75.00
IDA
NON-GOVERNMENT
ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF
BORROWING COUNTRY        $22.80
Total Project Cost       $106.90
6. Implementation
1. The Project would be implemented by NAFIN. Understandings for program
implementation, coordination with related programs and budgetary issues
would be covered under an Implementation Agreement between the Ministry of
Economy and NAFIN. Additional understandings would be reached using
existing instruments [to be defined] between NAFIN's Headquarters and its
regional offices for their role in specific implementation.     Day-to-day
management of the Project would be performed by NAFIN's Technical
Assistance Department. NAFIN has developed a sound management capacity
for this purpose, including with respect to Bank procurement and financial
management practices, through considerable experience in collaboration
with the Bank in the execution of other Bank-financed projects. NAFINs
Technical Assistance Department is also managing the Bank-financed
Southeast Regional Development LIL Project, now in its start-up phase.
NAFIN would utilize its existing Project Management Unit (PMU) for the
LIL, operating under the responsibility of its Deputy Director General for
Business Development, to implement the proposed Project utilizing separate
dedicated personnel. The Unit would assign at NAFIN headquarters a
dedicated core team consisting of a Project Manager, 1 Program Manager and
institutional development specialist for the financial services
(second-tier administration of the credit program would be performed by
NAFIN's existing departmental services); 1 Program Manager for business
development services, 1 Program Manager for the investment climate
component, an Administrative Manager, a Procurement Specialist, and 4
support staff. Since it is critical that the Management Unit be fully
operative from the start of Project implementation, the staffing of this
core team in the Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.   NAFIN would recruit specialized contractors under
Bank Guidelines for the BDS component, whose operating staff would be
assigned to NAFIN branch offices, initially in the six initial areas of
the Federal District (Mexico City), Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Puebla and
Veracruz.
7. Sustainability
1. Mexico's government at the highest levels has voiced its strong
commitments which, along with the continuity in the private sector's
involvement throughout the preparation process, will help to ensure
-3 -



sustained momentum under the implementation phase of the Project and of
meeting its institutional development goals. The design of the business
climate reforms and institutional improvements closely conforms to the
Government's E-Mexico initiatives and has strong internal support both
within the Federal Government and at many state levels. 2. For the MSB
financial markets component, the level of sustainability of participating
financial intermediaries will be a key eligibility criterion. This will
be measured by the percentage of operating expenses (adjusted for
subsidies and the effects of inflation) covered by operating income from
interest, fees and commissions (see Annex 2 for description of four
institutions that meet this criterion). 3. The Competitiveness Learning
and Innovation Program is not intended to be sustained. It has a defined
exit policy, deliberately making it a temporary one-time efforts to reduce
market failures. However, experience elsewhere with mechanisms of this
kind show that they are likely to create three sustainable effects: (i)
having helped firms to meet the usually high costs of pre-commercial
learning, particularly for entry into the export market, they encourage a
durable commitment to new markets as long as operating costs are covered;
(ii) having introduced firms to the benefits of using business development
services, firms tend to recognize their full value and no longer need
subsidies to motivate their use; and (iii) they encourage development of a
local market of entrepreneurial learning and businesses support.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Commercial approach to small business and microfinance. Traditionally,
government intervention to promote micro- and small businesses This
section based upon "Small and Medium Scale Enterprises: A Framework for
Intervention", by Kristin Hallberg, The World Bank, May 1999. has focused
on the provision of credit through various means -- direct lending through
first-tier development banks, second-tier credit facilities channeled
through banks and other financial institutions, and portfolio requirements
- often supplemented by credit guarantee schemes. Subsidized interest
rates and guarantees were common in the past and continue to be used in
many countries, reflecting the narrow (likely erroneous) view that the
high cost of credit is the main constraint facing smaller businesses.
Directed and subsidized credit programs have done little to achieve what
should be their fundamental objective: increasing the access to financial
services. They inhibit the development of sustainable financial
institutions and often foster a "non-repayment culture" among enterprises,
rather than generating credit histories for good clients. In the
component design, commercial principles will be applied to insure that
pricing of the credit line does not become a disincentive to savings
mobilization, and that sustainable financial institutions are supported.
In the MSD financial markets component, the only subsidy will be in the
form of a one-time institutional development matching grant for capacity
building activities related to the expansion and decentralization of
financial operations. Demand-driven private sector BDS. In addition to
credit, governments and donors have often provided BDS through public
institutions or nongovernmental organizations. These include training to
labor and management; extension, consultancy, and counseling; marketing
and information; technology development and diffusion; and efforts to
improve business linkages through subcontracting, franchising, and
business clusters. There is broad consensus among many supporters that
publicly-provided BDS often suffer from being too general and
supply-driven, of poor quality, with insufficient awareness of cost
- 4 -



control. The types of products and delivery mechanisms offered by donors
and public institutions may also not be consistent with the needs and
willingness-to-pay of MSBs.    Instead, a more market-oriented strategy is
needed which focuses on increasing MSB access to markets - for the goods
and services that micro- and small businesses produce (both domestic and
export); for inputs used by such businesses (including information,
technology, and competitively-priced materials); and for a diverse range
of financial services and BDS which support business growth and
competitiveness. MSBs need different types of BDS, institutions and
delivery mechanisms than larger firms. The government can accelerate
market development by promoting supply innovation and building
institutional capacity that encourages the development of private markets
for services, and by rationalizing public expenditure on business
assistance programs to reduce their distorting effects.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The Project would consist primarily of firm-level
technical assistance, institution-building among financial service and
business services providers, and regulatory changes at the municipal level
in regard to formalization of business. Based upon past experience
elsewhere, the CLIP is likely to include support to MSBs in the
acquisition of internationally recognized certification systems for
environmental protection, such as ISO 14,000. Regarding the MSB Financial
Services Component, MSBs would not be eligible for financing if they are
involved in the production or processing of tobacco products, operate
tanneries or other businesses that could cause a negative impact on the
environment, or use pesticides or other inputs which are not approved by
the World Health Organization (this negative list of subproject
investments would be patterned after the one already developed and
approved for the Southeast Regional Development Project under
implementation with NAFIN). However, the Project would include provisions
and activities [to be agreed ata appraisal] which incorporate awareness
campaigns, dissemination of good practices and training which enable
financial institutions participating under the Project to promote
environmental improvements as part of the investments of MSBs financed by
the Project and to carryout environmental due diligence accordingly.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James C. Hanna
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 19 72
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-5-



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 24, 2002.
- 6 -



