                                                  Document of
                                              The World Bank



                                                                                                  ReportNo: 25959
                                          FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                     PROJECTAPPRAISAL. DOCUMENT

                                                       ONA

                                               PROPOSEDLOAN

                                   INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$58.4MILLION

                                                       TO

                                       THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                                                    FOR AN

                   E-BUSINESSFOR SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                   July 2, 2003




Finance,PrivateSector andInfrastructureSector ManagementUnit (LCSFP)
Colombia andMexico Country ManagementUnit(LCCIC)
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion(LCR)

This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedby recipientsonly in the performanceof their official
duties.Its contentsmay nototherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch 6, 2003)
                    Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                            1Peso = US$0.096
                             US$1 = US$10.4Pesos

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 -- December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  BDS-business development services
  CAS- Country Assistance Strategy
  CDC - Community Digital Center
  ELP-E-business LearningandInnovationProgram
  CVE -Business Linkages Centers
  GDP- Gross domestic product
  G2MSB - government to micro and small business electronic services
  ICB - International competitive bidding
  IFC - International Finance Corporation
  ICT - information and communications technology
  INEGI-National Statistics Institute
  I S 0 - International Standards Organization
  LCR - Latin America and the Caribbean Region
  ME-Ministry of Economy
  MSBs -micro and small businesses
  NAFIN-NacionalFinanciera, S.N.C.
  NAFTA-NorthAmerican Free Trade Agreement
  NGO - non-governmental organization
  PMU-Project management unit
  SHCP -Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico)
  SOE - statement of expenditures
  TOR -terms of reference
  USAID -United States Agency for International Development

                   Vice President:    David de Ferranti
      Country Managermirector:        IsabelM.Guerrero
        Sector Managermirector:       Danny Leipziger
Task TeamLeader/Task Manager:         James Hanna

                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     MEXICO
                     E-BUSINESSFORSMALL BUSINESSDEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




      A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

         1. Project development objective                                                       3
         2. Key performance indicators                                                          4

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
         3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                  13
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       14
         3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
         4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       15

      D.Project Rationale

         1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                            17
         2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies        18
         3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 18
         4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    20
         5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         20

      E.Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                            20
         2. Financial                                                                           21
         3. Technical                                                                           21
         4. Institutional                                                                       22
         5. Environmental                                                                       22
         6. Social                                                                              23
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  25

      F.Sustainability and Risks

         1. Sustainability                                                                      25
         2. Critical risks                                                                      26

This document has a restricted distribution and may beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      26


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             26
  2. Other                                                                               27

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          27

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             28



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         64
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           65
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    66
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    67
          (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                          75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   79
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            83

                                                       MEXICO
                                  E-Businessfor Small BusinessDevelopment Project
                                        Project Appraisal Document
                                         LatinAmerica andCaribbeanRegion
                      Finance, Private Sector andInfrastructure Sector ManagementUnit (LCSFP)
                              Colombia and Mexico Country ManagementUnit (LCCIC)

Date: July 2,2003                                           Team Leader: James C. Hanna
Sector Managermirector: Danny M.Leipziger                   Sector(s): Information technology (100%)
Zountry Managermirector: Isabel M.Guerrero                  Theme(s): Small and mediumenterprise support (P),
Project ID: PO68290                                         Other urbandevelopment (S)
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance
,oan (Sw



For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): 58.4 million
Borrower Rationalefor Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:       0  Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                   Years to maturity: 15
Commitmentfee: 0.85% on 1st 4 years and 0.75%             Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                    thereafter

Initialchoice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repaymentschedule:
 [ ] Fixedat Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
 [XI Linkedto Disbursement



BRD
`JON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION(NGO) OF
30RROWING COUNTRY
rotal:                                                                    51.60            49.20  I     100.80
             ~~    ~
Borrower:
Responsibleagency:
E-Mexicoof the Ministry of Communications andTransport
Address: Av. Universidad y Xola, Edificio C, ler Piso, Col. Navarte C.P. 03028, Mtxico, D.F.
Contact Person: Jose I. Gallardo y Latapi, Manager,E-Mexico
                        Gomez
Tel: 52-55-5723-9300Ext. 40105                     Fax: 52-55-5530-7642                 Email: jgomezg@sct.gob.mx

- 2-

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
        Bank activities to generate urban economic growth have been focused largely in areas
such as urban government management and municipalfinance, infrastructure and housing
upgrading, and environmental cleanup. InMexico, the urban poor amount to 35 millionpeople
or two-thirds of the country's total poor. Recently, Bank urban strategies are also placing stress
on direct support for productive firms to promote buoyant, broad-basedgrowth of investment,
incomes and employment.

        As part of such strategies, the Project objective would be to help increase the
competitiveness and growth of micro and small businesses (MSBs) inpoor urban areas of
Mexico through the adoption of e-business. "E-business", when well integratedwith a firm's
business processes and organization, involves considerable innovationinbusiness processes and
tends to have a strong positive impact on productivity, competitiveness and growth. The
definition of MSBs for Project purposes i s consistent with the Government's statistical institute,
INEGIandincludes micro and small businesses with up to 100employees. "E-business" refers
to the progressive process of (1) investment ininformation and communications technologies
(ICT), such as personal computers (PCs), other hardware equipment, software, Internet
connectivity, and local and wide area networking; (2) their application to individual business
processes like market research, production, finance, and management; and (3) the purchase
andor sale of goods and services between abusiness and other businesses, households,
individuals andlor governments over computerized networks.

        The Project objective would be achieved through the following two components:

(a)     Build e-businessdevelopment services marketsfor MSBs via (i) e-business benefits
                                                                          an
awareness program, (ii) e-learning and innovation programproviding demand-side matching
                         an
grants for BDS providing information, training, market access and technology appropriate to
M S B needs to adopt e-business solutions, (iii) a supply-side business centers innovationpilot in
ICT-based business development services (BDS) providing distance learning, new market
access, management tools, and online trading to reduce transaction costs; and (iv) an E-BDS
innovationpilot for the promotion of new employment of urban at-risk youth through ICT-based
training andjob placement;

(b)     Improve MSB access to ICT infrastructure and new economy e-gov business services -
technical assistance, hardware and software investments to (i) internet services to MSBs
                                                                extend
and to reduce regulations, increase innovation and competitiveness, and (ii) institutional
                                                                               simplify
practices associated with business regulations involving registration, operating licenses and
inspections, labor and tax registration and renewals via installation of best practices electronic
government services.

        While the Project would have a national geographic scope, implementationwould begin
inMexico's FederalDistrict (Mexico City) and the urban areas of its central region states of
Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nuevo Leon, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas---where the majority


                                                 - 3 -

of urbanpoverty andabout 45% of MSBs are found. Implementationcapacity would be
expandedto other urban areas of other regions according to demand.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
         Project outcomes would be measured (i)market institutional level against specific
                                                      at
development targets for the BDS innovation pilots, and for municipal and state governments
providing services to MSBs, and (ii)     at the marketfinal user level through firm-level surveys of
the impact of e-business systems adopted by MSBs participatinginthe demand-side matching
grants for BDS and the BDS innovationpilots. The Project would adopt the following specific
performance indicators:

(a)      E-business development services markets - (i)     expand market outreach of investments in
pre-competitive e-business learning and innovation by at least 15,000 MSBs and M S B
associations to increase competitiveness. Results would be evidenced by surveys of a firm's
progress inreaching through e-business new markets,producing new product designs and quality
improvements, increasing production efficiency, andor adopting new management practices in
areas such as marketing, finance, and personnel, etc. Changes ine-business BDS supply trends
would be tracked b y monitoring changes inthe number o f providers, services content, quality and
price; (ii) the ICT-based BDS innovationpilot would establish 30 ICT-basedbusiness
development centers. Client outreach i s estimatedto total about 50,000 clients per year at full
operation and to reach financial break-even by the end of year 2 of each center; and (iii) B D S
                                                                                             the
innovation pilot for youth at-risk would be expected to reach 5,000 youth and measure results by
the levels of youth newly employed, job retention rates and programcost effectiveness; and

(b)      ZCT infrastructure & e-gov business servicesfor MSBs - (i) increase number of MSBs
                                                                          to
that access and use ICT infrastructure (either wireless or wireline) using either dial-up or
high-speed networks for e-business by at least 10,000 within 3 years; and (ii)     undertake about 67
municipal programs of re-engineering of registration, operating and procurement processes
requiredfor M S B market entry and operation and the provision of government services online.
Their results would be measuredin terms of (i)        transaction time (from 10 to 1day intypes o f
business with low complexity and from 91 to 11days inthose with medium complexity
Complexity i s measured interms of business andby environmental requirements. For example,
there i s lower level of complexity in the process of constituting a carpentry shoe than establishing
a restaurant or a gas station.), (ii)
                                    cost savings generated and accruing to bothparticipating state
and municipal governments and MSBs, and (iii),         MSB satisfaction and the increase inthe rate of
MSB business registration.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-relatedCountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 23849           Date of latest CAS discussion: May 16, 2002

         The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico (see Report of April 23,
2002) includes among its five pillars acceleratinggrowth through competitiveness inresponse to
worrisome long-run income growth and distribution trends and, in this area, focuses on four
challenges, of which integrating middle-market and micro- and small enterprises inthe "new"



                                                    - 4 -

economy i s explicitly one (the others are enhancing physical infrastructure, broadening financial
sector reform, and raising agricultural productivity). The CAS emphasizes that, inthe absence o f
deliberate efforts, enhancing competitiveness will worsen income distributionif it leaves behind
the mass of small enterprises, which by some estimates may account for as much as three
quarters of total employment. It stresses that economic development, jobs creation, and a
deepening of financial marketsto reach lower income groups are central to Mexico's overall
development strategy.

        The Project concentrates directly on the competitiveness and poverty alleviation aims of
the CAS inurban areas. This i s where the vast majority of the population and the poor are found,
and where such efforts needto focus to achieve a more competitive economy, regional
development and inclusion. It addresses directly key knowledge and technology constraints of
low-income MSBs in these areas. It also complements the current strategy of the IFC inMexico,
which focuses on the modernization and expansion of particularly "middle market" Mexican
firms which have less access to investment capital. The dialogue and the completion of
preparation activities have enabled a strong degree of consensus between the borrower,
represented by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the executing agency E-Mexico,
NAFINand the Bank on Project design and implementation.

2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy:
        Economic inequality and urban poverty. Mexico i s currently among the most
economically unequal countries inthe world. The productive sector continues to be characterized
by a dual structure that seems to have become increasingly differentiated inthe wake of trade
liberalization and the banking crisis of the 1990s. While Mexico has a dynamic export sector
made up of internationally competitive conglomerates experiencing a boom intrade, the export
base has remained rather narrow and concentrated infew larger firms. Its poor integration with
the domestic economy, which i s constituted mainly by micro and small businesses, i s reflected in
the fact that only 4% of inputsto the export sector are providedby local Mexican firms,

         Much o f this inequality falls inurban areas. Three-quarters of Mexico's populationlive
incities. The FederalDistrict (D.F.),alone, has anestimated 8.6 millionpeople withinDistrict
limits. A total of nearly 22 millionpeople live inthe Mexico Valle, or about 25% of the nation's
total urban population. Intermediate cities (each between 0.5 and 4 million persons) grew at
more than 3% per annum over the last decade and now account for nearly 40% of the urban
population. Eighty-five percent of the country's GDP is produced in urban areas, where
nine-tenths of GDP growth was also generated over the last decade.

         Cities are also where two-thirds of the country's poor live. Today, 35 million poor
individuals live incities and account for 64% of the country's total poor; about 12million of
these are the country's extreme poor. From an regional perspective, 55% of the urban poor are
found inthe Federal District and the country's Central Region, including Jalisco, Michoacan,
Mexico, Puebla and Veracruz. Within cities, the poor tend to be concentrated ininformal
settlements on the outer rings of growing agglomerations, and over half of the urban poor work
inthe informalsector. Inthese areas, female-headed households absent other adults, poor youth
at risk, and crime and violence are particularly evident. Integrating them progressively into the



                                                 - 5 -

formal economy and improving their earning abilities and quality of life are essential elements to
reducing poverty rates and makingcities more competitive and livable for all.

             MSB Growth Constraints. As inother countries, the MSB sector accounts for an
important share o f economic activity inMexico. MSBs inthe formal and informal sectors are
estimated to number nearly 2.9 million economic units across the country, or about 97% of the
total number. They contribute about 39% of private sector value added and providejobs about
62% of the private sector labor force. Their activities are, as elsewhere, very heterogeneous
across commerce, services and manufacturing. InMexico's Federal District, for example,
registered microbusinesses within the industrial sector are concentrated in food, clothing,
furniture and wood products, publishingand printing, and metal products. They operate from
variety of settings---an owner's residence, commercial premises, makeshift and open-air
locations, and as itinerants. Owners and employees usually have no more than a third-grade level
of primary education. Women predominate infood and clothing, while men are more active in
repair services of household goods.

           Assessments by the Ministry of Economy in 2001 show that Mexican MSBs frequently
lack a culture o f process innovation and technology adaptation, have major weaknesses inaccess
to skills training and financing, and lack links to academic institutions and growth sectors.
Surveys by the Mexican National Statistics Institute, Bank sector work and NGO analyses
corroborate this, indicating inparticular that a majority of microbusinesses operated by both
sexes do not have intentions to expand their businesses with new investment, increasing
employees or developing new products (versus 21% which responded favorably). Entrepreneurs
listed a lack of clients, excessive competition, low earnings, and the lack of economic resources
and credit (access and cost) as their principal constraints.


                   Main Problems Faced



I          Problem faced Frequency of Response    I
                         (% of total)
  Lack of clients                          29.6
I Excessivecomnetition                      28.3  I




I Problemswith   workers/partners            1.3
  Other                                      1.6
  Source: INEGI


           These responses reflect the fact that most MSBs operate inan economic duality; that is,
within their own local communities and substantially separate from the mainstream formal
economy. Such businesses depend for their production inputs on local retailers and sell mostly to
nearby consumers in the area. They sell almost entirely to individual customers (rather than
intermediaries like wholesalers, retailers or other traders) and on spot cash sales terms rather than
on contracts and orders. Likewise, most buy supplies andraw materials from retail firms rather


                                                     - 6 -

than buying from wholesalers or importing directly. Furthermore, the income levels of most o f
the households within these market areas are likely to be very low---in the D.F.,the poorest five
consumption deciles of the population account for income purchasing power of only about 21.5%
(1998) of the City's total, whereas the upper five income deciles of the population---which are
mostly outside these areas---consume 78.5% of the City's total.

         Government Strategy. With an impressive set of real sector reforms on the
macroeconomic front, such as liberalization of trade and investment and entry into NAFfA, the
Government of President Fox i s giving very high priority attention to extending productivity
benefits to the "other Mexicanprivate sector". It recognizes that, to do this, MSBs need
essentially to build access to higher-income markets and to increase their competitivenessin
such markets. The Government has recently articulated its approach to this inits Enterprise
Development Plan for 2001-2006 adopted inDecember 2001, which emphasizes a
market-oriented approach and whose aims emphasize:

     a. expanding business development services to help accelerate development of business
         skills, knowledge, technology and innovation;
     b. strengthening buyer-seller marketlinkages and logistics, includingvia regional business
         clusters, MSB- large firm subcontracting networks and indirect exporting; and
     c. improving the business climate, includingby reducing the transaction costs to business of
         government requirements via process simplification and electronic-based services.

         One important strategic approach adoptedby the Government to achieve these objectives
i s through the E-Mexico initiative. President Fox launched inDecember 2001 the E-Mexico
program as an agent of change in the country to increase digital participation and reduce
socioeconomic differences among Mexicans. E-Mexico promotes services inlearning, health,
commerce and government by increasing connectivity, content and applications. Inthe
e-economy segment of the program, E-Mexico i s working to accelerate the process of the digital
development inthe enterprises, particularly MSBs, to help increase the competitiveness o f the
Mexican economy.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the projectand strategic choices:
         E-business Development Services Markets. BDS help microbusinesses to improve
their competitiveness, for example, by acquiring business management and technical training,
preparing business information and plans for expansion, securing information on suppliers,
production and new market requirements, research and developing links to new markets,
improving product design and quality, and organizing groups of microbusinesses to work in
clusters. While BDS markets are often highly developed in advanced economies, inMexico, as
most elsewhere, BDS i s estimated to cover only 1-2% of low-income M S B markets.

        BDSmarket development is constrainedby several factors. On the demand side, MSBs
are much more likely than larger firms to face barriers to investments inpre-competitive learning
and innovationneededto buildnew client markets and increase operating productivityand
competitiveness . This i s due particularly to (i)
                                                 the perceived and frequently actual high cost of
pre-competitive producdmarket development inrelation to very uncertain returns, lack of access



                                                - 7 -

to financing, insufficient informationor MSB-appropriate services, and externalities in skills
investments; and (ii)"softer" factors, like a lack of an information-seekingculture, weak
entrepreneurial experience and confidence, and absence o f a tradition of use of business
development services which otherwise remains an informal, in-house and in-family process
on-the-job. Thus, an important element of an MSB growth strategy inMexico i s encouraging
firms to increase such capacity-building investments.

        On the supply side, the weak BDS marketresponse to MSBs inMexico has several roots.
Available private sector services, while commercially successful, gravitate mostly to more
remunerative higher-income markets, partially in the absence of a more competitive BDSmarket.
While NGOshave developed some very useful BDSprograms, a large share are focused mainly
on credit-related activities (bookkeeping, loan application preparation, etc.). Most importantly,
the Government's intervention, which over time has amounted to more than 200 programs, has in
the past been excessively focused on the use of public institutions to promote business
development services, contrasting with international best practice guidelines. Overall, these
programs have relied strongly on scarce fiscal resources and frequently lacked a policy of
fee-for-service to recover costs, which has limitedtheir market scope and sustainability. Service
quality has also often suffered from being too general and supply-driven, lacking sufficient client
orientation and quality. Overall, little specific attention has been given to buildingproduct and
delivery systems with strong service outreach and financial sustainability.

        Specific assessments were made of a dozen of these federally-funded programs in 1999
with Bank assistance. It showed that there i s often a discrepancy between the intendedMSB
firms and actual recipients, who are mainly more medium-scale enterprises. Firmcoverage of
programs i s low, due inpart to a lack of informationabout them, particularly those outside major
urbanareas, and to an absence of programs well adaptedto MSB needs. Intwo-thirds of the
programs studied, client fees were small or nil. While some programs have introduced or plan to
introduce methods of recovering costs through client fees, many program managers do not place
a highpriority on cost recovery and most clients expect that the Government will cover most of
the cost of the service. The execution of federal programs i s often centralized, with little
participation of state or municipal institutions, non-government institutions, or the private
sector---most federal programs do not use external private service providers. Finally, program
management and evaluation were considered to not be well developed inmany cases. The
remuneration of programmanagers i s usually not tied to efficiency improvements and the
achievement of programobjectives. Also, internal evaluations of program performance usually
depend on programoutputs (e.g., number of firms served) rather than on programimpacts (e.g.,
increasedsales and employment as a result of the program).

        Under the proposed Project, a paradigm shift would be demonstrated inthe promotion of
BDS outreach and sustainability. The Government would adopt a second-tier "facilitator" role to
encourage capacity-building by commercially-oriented first-tier BDS providers---private firms,
business associations, universities and NGOs---instead of direct provision of services, It w o u l d
also support BDS research, development and experimentation to achieve innovations inBDS
services design and delivery which, as inmicrofinance, provide strong client market outreach and
financial sustainability to low-income MSBs. Accordingly, the Project would sponsor initiatives



                                                  - 8 -

aimed to help strengthen firm-level entrepreneurship andbuildBDS markets by (a) promoting
increasedM S B investments inpre-competitive learningand innovation, and (b)piloting
supply-side BDS innovations in(i)    informationtechnology-based BDS dedicated to low-income
MSBs, and (ii)  matching MSB new employment demand with the skills development andjob
placement needs of urban youth at- risk.

        The proposed Project does not attempt the consuming task of reform of Mexico's public
BDSprograms, butfollows aprivate market development and demand-based approach.
Experience in an impressive list of countries suggests that stimulating increasedinvestment in
well-planned, practicallearning and innovation at the pre-competitive stage among MSBs can
help to increase their competitiveness substantially. It can also stimulate a process of adaptation
inthe supply of BDS to MSB according to their content, quality andpriceneeds. The Project
would finance a E-business Learningand Innovation Program(ELIP) to support such
investments by at least 15,000 MSBs, associations and microclusters (with legal identity). The
Program would have four elements -promotion to the private sector of B D S benefits, continuous
technical assistance to firms on developing and implementingcompetitiveness plans, amatching
grant window for small firms and a voucher window for microbusinesses.

        The program would be market- and firm-based, remain outside of the firmbuyer-BDS
seller relationship and avoid distortion of services prices. Support would be temporary and aim
to modify business conduct and help develop a sustainable culture of investment inareas such as
business planning, market research, product and process development, management and technical
training, acquisition of market and technical information, quality assurance, marketing and
distribution to highincome markets. The Program would utilize an independent private
contractor for Programclient assistance and management, selected in accordance with the Bank's
Consultant's Guidelines and reporting to a separate Supervisory Committee setup within the
E-Mexico Project Management Unit. The Government would adopt the ProgramOperational
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, as a conditionof loan effectiveness (see Annex 2 for more
detail).

        To further help accelerate innovationinthe BDS market for low-income businesses, the
Project would work with existing initiatives o f the Ministry o f Economy and NAFINto pilot
information and communications technology (1CT)-based BDS scaledfor a large MSB clientele
and operated sustainably. With the reform of the telecom sector inMexico, substantialprogress
i s being made inbasic ICT services and it i s a promising time to introduce higher value-added
ICT services toward these ends. The Ministry of Economy has recently begun to pilot in 40
locations inMexico a dedicated distance learning system for small business management---
Centros de Vinculacion Empresarial (CVE). Preliminary tests of the system showedthat this
form of trainingresults in higher levels of content retention at less time and cost than traditional
methods, and can reach simultaneously a larger audience than traditional methods.

        The Project would buildupon the Ministry's CVE experience to date by developing 30
full-service ICT-based business centers for MSBs across the country. These center would
integrate the CVE business education system with additional tools to increase MSB
competitiveness and do business online. The centers would basically (i)    provide basic entry-level



                                                 - 9 -

business skills training and informationtechnology training via traditional and distance learning
systems; (ii)make accessible modem traditional communications (phone, fax and photocopying)
and marketing outreach tools (advertising, packaging and labeling) with coaching assistance, and
(iii) PC-basedworkstationswithcoachingsupportwhichprovidesoftware,marketplaces
    offer
and local content to expand entrepreneurialknowledge, prepare strategies on how to grow MSBs,
solve common problems inproduction, financehredit and marketing, and carryout basic
electronic commerce. The Project would support the cost of new investments inthe development
of software tools, local content, equipment, fixtures and furniture, and leasehold improvements,
client dissemination and promotion. Bank financing would cover mainly research and
development, startup, staff training and technical services, and leasehold improvements; most
equipment costs would be met by private sector participants. Operating costs would be covered
by user fees. The Project would also put a strong emphasis on developing the institutionaland
governance models needed to ensure sound business management and financial sustainability,
with the target of achieving financial breakeven for each center by the end of year 2 and net
income of 5% of total revenues by the end of year 4. A Business Plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be completed by June 30,2004.

        The Project would support further BDS innovation by piloting a system to promote
market links between firms needing new employees and unemployed at-risk youth requiring
placement to enter the job markets.        There i s a very high level of unemployment and
under-employment among Mexican youth (from ages 16 to 25) in urban areas. Typically, a
young person looking for a job has dropped out of the educational system, has a low level of
formal education, and little or no previous work experience. This set o f characteristics creates
barriers to identifying and obtaining a formal sector job, and leaves many youths out o f the
economic mainstream, in social conditions that can contribute to delinquency. On the other
hand, businesses (including MSBs) do not have a ready source of workers who can contribute as
they begin to expand operations.

        The component would provide approximately 5,000 eligible youths with a combination of
ICT-based and counselor-based training in (a) how to identify a job, (b) how to keep the job, and
(c) how to develop new workplace behaviors and skills that would be attractive to business. The
program would involve initial screening on client interests, motivations and attitudes, and skills
to help tailor subsequent steps in program; then training in life skills and world of work job
preparation, and provision of personal and vocational guidance counseling.          This would b e
followed by brokering to help a youth identify a firm in hisher community with whom to work.
Participants would receive a certificate of Program completion, providing recognition that the
client has successfully completed the Program.

        MSBaccessto ICT Infrastructure and New Economy Services. Since the early
1990s,Mexico liberalizedand opened its ICT market to competition. As a result, since 1995
more than $25 billion have been investedin the telecommunications sector alone, between 1991
and 2001 the number o f telephones more than doubled, inthe year 2000 the number of mobile
subscribers exceeded the number of fixed line subscribers and the number of Internet user has
also dramatically increased. Despite these remarkable improvements, Mexico's ICT
expenditures as a share of GDP i s only 3.2 percent substantially below Argentina's and



                                               -10-

Venezuela's 4 percent rate and i s less than half of Brazil's 8.3 percent, Chile's 8.1 percent and
Korea's 7.4 percent. While Mexico's telephone penetration levels increased from 6.4 per 100
people in 1990 to 13.48 telephones per 100people, it still lags significantly behind Brazil and
Chile which have, respectively telephone penetration levels of 21.69 and 23.9 per 100people.
These indicators are even more remarkable considering that in 1990, Mexico's telephone
penetration level was nearly identical to those of Brazil and Chile. Telephone penetration levels
are important indicators for e-business readiness since most MSBs rely on telephone lines to
access the Internet and other data networks.

       Not only has the "digital divide" grown between Mexico and other Latin American
countries, but also the "digital divide" within Mexico increased. Most o f Mexico's telephone
lines are in the Federal District, where the telephone penetration rate i s 31.5 per 100 people,
compared to penetration levels of 4 telephones per 100people in Oaxaca, 3.5 in Chiapas and 5.4
in Tabasco. In 1990 the difference in telephone penetration level between Mexico City and
Chiapas, for example, was approximately 17 percent, which has increased to 31.5 percent in
2001. This "digital divide" within Mexico has increased during the last decade because
investment has mainly focused on the more profitable areas in the largest urban centers and
because Mexican business and residential users pay among the highest rates for access ICT
networks.

       Similarly, electronic-based services to improve the business operating environment for
MSBs have been slow to take off. While progress has been made in Mexico over the past 15
years in deregulation and improvement of the business environment, with major reforms taking
place in strategic areas like property, basic physical infrastructure and telecommunications and
development o f competition-promoting agencies, a variety of second-generation actions are
needed to reduce institutional rigidities, particularly in the business registration system at the
municipal level (initial commercial registration and renewals, acquisition of operating permits
and licenses), registration and compliance with tax regulations, and labor and social security
registration.  These rank among the highest constraints which drive business and labor
informality and stifle business innovationand growth.

       In a recent Bank-sponsored survey of the business climate in Mexico, the leading
constraint for Mexican firms was high taxes across all firm sizes and sectors,              Business
registratiodlicensing and tax administration practices follow as "major" constraints, while labor,
customs and environmental regulations also impose "moderate" regulatory                constraints on
Mexican firms. Regulations are perceived as burdensome inpart as they are perceived to change
without advance information or consultation of affected businesses and as interpretations are
inconsistent.




                                               -11   -

        More importantly, Mexicanfirms fare badly compared to other transitional economies
and industrialized countries inthe amount of time entrepreneurs and managers must spend in
satisfying such regulations. For example, in 2002, the time to register a micro or a small firm
was estimated in the municipality of Monterrey, which i s among the most developed local
administrations, at 11days for transactions of low complexity, 91 for those of medium
complexity and 136 days for highcomplexity according to government sources; the cost of
registering a business was found to be about US$lOO, $150 and US$300, respectively. In
Zacatecas, which i s more representative of most of Mexico's municipalities, the time was
estimatedbetween 6 days for simply registration transactions, 45 days for medium complexity,
and 121days for those of highcomplexity; the costs are about US$lOO, $200 and US$6,000,
respectively!

        The process to register business activities, pay licenses fees, contract with public
authorities, and the like i s evidently quite demanding for MSBs. Applications and interviews are
neededwith separate tax authorities, which usually require backup legal assistance; knowledge of
a variety of business disciplines i s needed to define a business structure (at least finance,
accounting and auditing); proper accounts mustbe maintained and open to Government
inspection; payment of taxes and contributions must be made regularly; annual declarations of
assets mustbe filed annually; and the registration process mustbe repeated periodically. This
complicated process i s also highly susceptible to corruption. According to a recent Mexico
business climate survey, unofficialpayments are most frequent indealing with customs and
licensing officials.

        Some regulatory reform processes inthis area have been initiated. For example, "V
entanillas u'nicasde gestidn" or one-stop-windows, have been approved by Congress to assist
business to process most of the administrative requirements for setting-up and operating an
enterprise. A wide range of bureaucratic procedures can be performedat a Ventanilla Unica
ranging from zoning certificates to licensing a company. The movement to simplify the business
environment has trickled down insome cases to the state and municipal level. The local



                                                 - 1 2 -

government of Mexico City revised its framework for formalities andestablished criteria to
reduce them. In2002, the Mexican government launched the "Regulatory Improvement Program
2001-2006" that among other things i s deemed to simplify federal requirements and expedite
procedures with the ultimate aim of enabling entrepreneurs to start-upbusinesses ina single day.
SARE i s the clearest outcome of this program.

        The Project would support a program of assistance to an estimated 67 municipalities to
adopt and complete ICT-based solutions to business registration, operation and procurement for
MSBs. Buildingthis government to MSB electronic relationship i s expected to decrease MSBs'
costs and time for formalization and securing licenses and permits for operation on an ongoing
basis, increase MSBs' opportunities to sell their products and services to government agencies,
and improve the municipalities' efficiency and effectiveness inthis area.


C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (seeAnnex 2for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown):

        The proposed Project would support the increased competitiveness and growth o f micro
and small businesses (MSBs) inpoor urban areas of Mexico. It would contain two components
aimed to substantially increase access to sustainable business development services and to
improve the business climate for microbusiness investment and operation.




 1.BuildE-business Development Services Markets for              5.OO     5.0       5.00        8.6
 MSB.
 (la) E-business benefits awareness program- workshops,
 general literature/web site promotioncampaigns, success
 case demonstrators and targeted awareness promotion;
 collaborative awareness (exchange of experience); and
 awareness focusing on specific sectors to promote
 awareness of benefits of e-business:

 (lb) E-business learningand innovation programfor firms        36.30    36.0      19.90       34.1
 - establish a temporary Programincluding (i) promotion to
 MSBs on e-business uses & benefits, (ii) a 50-50 matching
 grant window for small business based on individually
 approved e-business plans, and an 80-20 matching voucher
 window for low-income microbusinesses to acquire
 information, training and specialized technical assistance tc
 develop and implement e-business plans; and (iii) a
 Program client assistance and management contract to
 implement the Program;

 [IC)E-BDS business centers innovation pilot: demonstrate       7.60     7.5        4.60        7.9
 xoad outreach & sustainability in ICT-basedBDS services


                                                  -13-

 and delivery - technical services, equipment and works to
 builda prototype network of ICT-basedbusiness
 development centers providing slulls-appropriate business
 training, product marketing, and IT services:

 (Id) E-BDS youth start innovation pilot -technical              1.70      1.7       1.70      2.9
 services to demonstrate mechanisms to facilitate the
 transition from unemployment to work through ICT- and
 counselor-based integratedprocesses of counseling, job
 preparation, andjob placement.

 (2) Improve MSB access to ICT infrastructure and new
 economy e-gov business services.
 (2.a) E-government services for MSBs to reduce barriers tc     41.00    40.7      20.50      35.1
 business formation and operations -technical assistance,
 equipment and works to re-engineer, deliver and promote
 electronically government services associated with
 business registration, licensing and permits, labor and tax
 regulations, zoning restrictions and the like:

 (2b) MSB access to ICT infrastructure - a demand and            6.40      6.3      3.90       6.7
 barriers study, design of incentives, and pilot projects to
 help increase MSB connectivity to ICT networks on a
 commercially sustainable basis and to increase ICT
 infrastructure, networks and services provision, especially
 among MSBs inMexico's poorest regions.

 Management Unit (oDerationa1exDenditures)                       2.20      2.2      2.20       3.8
                                            Total Project Costa 100.20   99.4      57.80      99.0
                                                 Front-end fee   0.60      0.6      0.60        1.0
                                  Total FinancingReauired       100.80   100.0     58.40      100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project:


0   E-businessdevelopment services markets - institutionaldevelopment reflected inchanges (i)
    at the firm level, inbusiness management practices, new markets, new products and
    production efficiency from learning and innovation investments among at least 15,000 MSBs,
    associations and micro-clusters; (ii) provider adaptations to the MSB market,
                                             E-BDS
    measured by changes in services content, quality and price differentials; and (iii)
                                                                                     in30
    ICT-based development centers, measuredby outreach to an estimated 50,000 clients and
    financial breakeven and (iii)   inthe E-MSByouth startprogram, measuredby outreach to an
    estimated 5,500 at-risk urban youth inE-MSBs,with success measuredby retention rates
    and cost effectiveness; and

    Access to ZCT infrastructure and new economy e-gov business services - institutionalreform
    of 67 municipalities in their regulatory interface with MSBsvia re-engineering of business
    registration, operations and procurement procedures and reflected inreductions inassociated


                                                    - 1 4 -

    time and cost.

3. Benefitsand target population:
        The Project's ultimate clientele would be at the firm level: micro and small businesses
which employ a large segment of Mexico's economically active population and involve lower
income groups in such areas as services and commerce, agro-business, textiles and clothing,
leather goods, wood products, metalworking, and artisan products. Particularly as firm size
decreases, women and indigenous entrepreneurs are expected to benefit as, in some sectors, they
represent a majority (clothing) or a significant share of producers within an industry (food, shoes
and leather). The Project would be expected to lead to greater M S B competitiveness o f such
businesses through the near-term reductions of firm-level operating costs, linkages with new
markets, investments in capital goods and workers skills, improvements in product and process
quality, and R&D innovations. These benefits would be expected to ultimately taking the form
of increased value added (mainly wages, profits, and fiscal revenues), productivity and
employment.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
        The Project would be implemented through the Secretariat of Communications and
Transport and representatives in the Technical Committee o f the E-Mexico Trust.
Understandings about programimplementation, coordination with related programs and
budgetary issues are covered infinancial agency and administrative services agreements between
the SHCP, E-Mexico and NAFIN. For day-to-day management of the Project, the Coordinator of
E-Mexico would establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) supportedby the implementation
services agreement with NAFIN,which has a sound management capacity for this purpose. The
Unitwould be constitutedby a dedicated technical core team consisting of aProjectManager, 4
ProgramManagers for the business development services subcomponents, 2 Program Managers
for the investment climate components, and 4 support staff. Since it i s critical that the
Management Unitbe fully operative from the start of Project implementation, the staffing of this
core team in the Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.

        NAFINwould performunder the Project financial agency and administrativeservices
agreements project management functions for procurement, contracting, disbursement and
reporting. The contractor hired to provide client assistance and manage the E-businessLearning
and InnovationProgram would report through NAFINto E-Mexico. E-Mexico would be
responsible for adopting the policies and procedures o f the ELIPinthe Operating Manual,
monitoring progress and compliance with the Manual, and evaluating impact. Implementationof
the E-BDS innovationpilot would be carried out by a management contract under a business plan
satisfactory to the Bank. The E-BDS Youth Start Program would be managedby one or more
qualifiedNGOs (eligibility criteria to be set for inthe Project Operating Manual) operating
within the E-BDS business centers. The component for government electronic services to reduce
barriers to business registration and operation would be carried by sub-project integrator
contractors selected under Bank Guidelines and operating under sub-project agreements between
NAFINandthe participatinglocal governments.

        The Project Coordination Unit would also undertake the following:


                                                - 1 5 -

    Carry out the Project Launch Plan;
    Prepare annually by November 30, with inputsfrom Project institutions and inagreement
    with the Bank, Annual Action Plans for the years 2003-2007;
    Prepare Quarterly Project Monitoring and EvaluationReports on execution and impact
    against agreed institutional and financial performance targets;
    Hold a Project Mid-term Review by June 30, 2005;
    Ensure general Project coordination between E-Mexico, NAFIN,the Ministry of Finance and
    other entities involved inProject execution; and
    Prepare the borrower's portion of the Project Implementation Completion Report in
    coordination with the managing agencies.

       Project Financial management.          NAFIN, represented by its International Finance
Department acting as financial agent, would manage project funds under a Bank-certified
financial management system for accounting, reporting, and auditing. This system, to be defined
in a Project Manual of Administrative-Financial Procedures, would cover financial management
responsibilities, procedures, documentary formats for use of the Special Account, procurement of
goods and services, the Integrated Accounting System, internal documentary controls and
inventory controls over office equipment and supplies. The accounting and auditing practices,
standards and controls, and reporting format and content would be defined by the Bank.

       Auditing of Project accounts wouldbe carried out by an independent private sector firm
acceptable to the Bank. The audit review will be carried out based on an existing memorandum
of understanding (Memorandum de Entendimiento Tecnico, MET), which was agreed between
the Bank, the SECODAM, local financial agencies (including NAFIN) and the Ministry o f
Finance (SHCP). A specific shortlist of such firms for the Project would b e prepared and
reviewedby the Bank for its no-objection. Terms of reference for such audits would be prepared
and agreed upon inaccordance with Bank model TORS,covering statements o f income and
expenses, all sources and uses of project funds and comparisons with the Bank's Project
Appraisal Document, assets and liabilities, SOEs, Special Account, internal control system,
conformity with the Bank's Loan Agreement. Audit work would beginat the Project's startup to
confirm the auditability of the financial management system. Audit reports would be submitted
within 4 months following the end of the fiscal year. This financial management system would
conform to the Bank's requirements under BP10.02. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Government would have put into operation a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
administrative, financial and accounting control of the Project, and hire the external auditors.

       Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project Coordination Unitwould be responsible
for Project monitoring and evaluation of progress toward project development objectives and use
the Project Design Summary inAnnex 1as a basis to track the key Project inputs, processes,
outputs and outcome/impact. A data collection system would be prepared for this purpose,
which would utilize a baseline data set as a control group and "barometer" of project progress.
These same firms would be tracked at the mid-point and end of the Project andtheir evaluation
data compared with similar evaluations of firms participatinginthe Project. The Management
Unitwould utilize the system to (i) quarterly ProjectMonitoring andEvaluationReports
                                    prepare



                                                - 1 6 -

on execution and impact against agreed performance targets, and (ii) a Project Midterm
                                                                     hold
Review by June 30, 2005. While the Management Unit itself would be responsible for
monitoringimplementation activities and outputs, a qualified local firm paid for by the Bank
loan would be responsible for preparing within this reporting system a regular independent
evaluation of Project outcome and impact.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection:
       The Project concept has been drivenby client interests, lessons o f experience and avision
of the most appropriate niche for Bank support, all as outlined below inSections D3-D5.
Traditional forms of support for the provision of BDS were considered in dialogue with the
Government, namely through the revamping and expansion of existing Government services.
However, an approach that builds a broad private sector market for such services eventually
independent of public support was favored by the Government because o f the limitations in
scope and quality of most services providedby the Government.




                                              -17-

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).


              Sector Issue                 I              Project                 (Bank-financeRatings only)
                                                                                         (PSR)
                                                                                                  projects
                                                                                 Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                    Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)

 Increase regional access to               Mexico Southeast Regional                   S               S
 microfinance and business services        Development LIL

 Mexico urban development                  Mexico UrbanDevelopment: A
                                           Contribution to National
                                           Strategy

 Private Sector Development                Think Globally, Act Locally:                                S
                                           DecentralizedIncentive
                                           Framework for PSD

 Increase product and factor market        ElSalvador Competitiveness                                  S
 competitiveness and integration with      Enhancement Project
 the global economy

 Increase access of small business to      Argentina Export Development                                S
 international trade markets               Project

 Increase access of small business to      Ecuador International Trade                                  S
 international trade markets               land Intemation Proiect
 Xher development agencies
 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), H l Highly Unsatisf: ory)

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
        Traditionally, government intervention to promote micro- and small businesses has
focused on the provision of BDS often through public institutions or nongovernmental
organizations. These include training to labor and management; extension, consultancy, and
counseling; marketing and information; technology development and diffusion; and efforts to
improve business linkages through subcontracting, franchising, and business clusters. There i s
broad consensus among many supporters that publicly-provided BDS often suffer from being too
general and supply-driven, of poor quality, with insufficient awareness o f cost control. The types
of products and delivery mechanisms offered by donors and public institutions may also not be
consistent with the needs and willingness-to-pay of MSBs.

        Instead, a more market-oriented strategy i s needed which focuses on increasing MSB
access to markets - for the goods and services that micro- and small businesses produce (both
domestic and export); for inputs usedby such businesses (including information, technology, and
competitively-priced materials); and for a diverse range o f financial services and BDS which


                                                      - 1 8 -

support business growth and competitiveness. This approach redirects government intervention
toward:

   0    addressing the market failures that create cost disadvantages for micro- and small
        businesses, restrict their access to markets, and inhibitthe development of markets for
        financial services and BDS appropriate for such firms;

   0    reconsidering public policies and regulations that produce hightransactioncosts and thus
        create a competitive disadvantage for micro- and small firms, and reforming public
        business assistance programs which have low-impact, are inefficient, and may crowd out
        private initiatives; and

   0    investing inpublic goods that open market access and develop markets for support
        services -- including information, infrastructure (transport, market facilities,
        communications), training, product development for financial services and BDS, and
        institutional capacity-building.

This strategy represents afundamental shift inthe role of the government, away from direct
provision of services and benefits for MSBs and toward the development of markets and
networks.

        MSBs need different types of BDS, institutions and delivery mechanisms than larger
firms. The government can accelerate market development by promoting supply innovation and
building institutional capacity that encourages the development of private markets for services,
and by rationalizing public expenditure on business assistance programs to reduce their distorting
effects. Some of the design lessons from experience See, for example, "Conclusions of the International
Conference on the Business Development Services Industryfor Small Enterprises", Rio de Janeiro, March 1999. to
incorporate inthis approach include:

   0    while many BDS initiatives have demonstrated success in supporting M S B development,
        they have not reached significant scale and are unlikely to do so without (i)         engaging in a
        private-public sector partnership which incorporates a strong up-front commitment to
        financial sustainability, and (ii) establishing from the outset product designs and delivery
        systems which rely on full cost recovery;

   0    strong attention should be given to developing BDS markets through a better
        understanding of the problems and situational needs of the clients, and innovation in
        service products and delivery to affordably meet those needs across a mass market. This
        should include focusing explicitly on the lower-income, least experienced and often
        female entrepreneurs, who are by and large engaged intrade; emphasizing market
        research and development for the growth of client businesses, and combiningit with
        entrepreneurial training;

   0    information services among BDS, relating especially to markets and technology, play a
        particularly critical role inM S B development and need greater emphasis;



                                                   - 1 9 -

        the traditional narrow focus on asingle program, such as entrepreneurship training, credit,
        or marketing---should be expanded to more multi-dimensionalprograms which have
        greater impact. M S B operators already exercise considerable day-to-day
       entrepreneurship, and seek to address the multiple constraints they face intheir operating
        environment involving market information, diseconomies of scale inprocurement,
       production and sales, accessing physical infrastructure and utilities, and policy/regulatov
        obstacles: and

        BDS should generally be delivered by specialized institutions rather than microfinance
       lenders, since they should offer products going beyond those directly relatedto credit and
       need specialized staff skills and systems to do so.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
       The Government of President Fox i s giving very highpriority attention to the
development of MSBs as part of its growth andpoverty alleviation agenda. It i s striving to
provide much more massive support to MSBs to enable access to higher-income markets and
increasedcompetitiveness. Its Enterprise Development Plan for 2001-2006 emphasizes a
markets-oriented approach and the Government has shown its leadership through, for example,
the Programa de Financiamiento a1Microempresario over the past year and, more recently, the
MSBpilot distance learningprogram. NAFINhas also inrecent years supported with credit and
guarantee instruments and training programs a broadrange of businesses and i s now actively
promoting through direct and internet-based programs industrial subcontracting and integrated
supply chain development.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
       The Government and E-Mexico view the Bank's main role as helping to (i)        leverage
existing programs b y increasing analytical work, cross-country experience and internal dialogue
on key MSB policy and institutionaldevelopment issues, (ii)     ensure that the MSB agenda i s
closely linked with social objectives, and that policy/institutional analyses and program
development incorporate the interests of a wide spectrum of socio-economic groups inMexico,
and (iii)help to strengthen E-Mexico programs by emphasizing market development of services
and deepening public-private cooperation inprogramimplementation. The Bank can also
provide efficient access to international best practices, specialized consultants and courses, and
management tools for microfinanceinstitutions.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

0Costbenefit
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
                      NPV=US$million;ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

       Economic. The economic benefits of the Project are driven mainly by the technical


                                                 - 20 -

cooperation and financial inputsprovided directly as firm-level catalytic support and by the
policy and institutionaleffects on the business climate. Assessing the approach being usedand
benchmarks o f experience inprojects elsewhere, and taking into account the principal technical
and operational assumptions made, the best estimates o f the expected outcomes over the
four-year Project implementation periodare: (i)  ICT-based BDS---at least 50,000
microentrepreneurs utilize a combination of basic business training services, make new use of
business communications and marketing services, and engage incompetitiveness upgradingand
e-commerce activities; the 30 business centers collectively achieves financial breakevenby the
end of year 2 and net income of 5% of total revenues by year 4; and (iii)  the youth start program
would be expected to reach 5,500 and would be expected to generate new employment and
wages in firms for at least 60-80% of participants, and reduced behavioral risks of delinquency
and other social problems; and (ii) the reduction in the regulatory burden to about 67 municipal
governments and MSBs through the re-engineering of business requirements anduse of
ICB-based solutions i s expected to result in substantial savings to associated governments and
MSBs.

         For the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program, at least 15,000 MSBs,
associations and clusters would be expected to benefit from Project investments in e-business
learning and innovation. Qualitatively, beneficiaries are expected to accrue know-how and n e w
market links in the form of market and product information sources, suppliers, private
associations, potential buyers, and potential investment partners. The Program i s expected to
produce incremental output in the form of (i) value added (mainly wages and profits) in
                                                higher
products and new employment, and (ii)    linkages as indirect exporters to exporting firms (share of
local raw materials, intermediate & finished goods in product cost). This incremental output
would also generate additional tax revenues expected to exceed by the fourth year of the Project
the cost to the Government in grant funds and related interest on the Bank loan from the
following sources: (1) incremental payroll taxes paid by domestic and exporting firms and by
employees, (2) corporate income taxes, and (3) value added taxes generated by incremental
employee consumption outlays.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
         The strong market development orientation and highrate of private sector participation of
the Project imply that the near-term incremental recurrent cost requirements related to
institutional development to be financed by the Project would be low and that as benefits accrue
from the project, net fiscal gains would be achieved from the growth effects of small business
and cost efficience at the municipal level.

Fiscal Impact:



3. Technical:
        The main technical challenge of the Project would be to create information-technology
based business development services with strong impact on low-income micro- and small
businesses. While the basic IT infrastructure in telecommunications, internet service providers
and programmers are available to the more advanced portions of the economy, focusing this


                                               -21 -

infrastructure and creating an effective interface with such clientele in the form of ICT software,
program content and training will be a major task. However, initial support for the Mexico
ICT-based BDS pilot, Centros de Vinculacion Empresarial, i s quite pronounced and high quality
local and international resources are available to address this challenge.

4. Institutional:
        The Project i s designed as a major effort to expandinstitutionalcapacity to encourage
M S B development. Support for e-business learning and innovation at the firm level has a good
record when well administered. An internationally experienced and well-qualified management
contractor, supported by E-Mexico, i s essential to achieve the quality and impact expected.
Other E-BDSinnovationunder the Project has a strong research and development
orientation---its chances of institutional success i s raised by the strong private commercial and
NGOparticipation expected. However, careful work programplanning and monitoringwill be
essential to reduce risks. Improvingthe business climate through regulatory process
improvements will similarly require strong commitments particularly at the municipal level.
Risks to this process are mitigatedby Mexico's head start on public e-procurement systems, the
emphasis on e-Mexico by the Fox administration and the intention to initially target this
component on municipalities that already have a good start on other e-government based
reforms.
4.1 Executing agencies:
N/A
4.2 Project management:
N/A
4.3 Procurementissues:
N/A
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
N/A
5. Environmental:                       Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessment andEMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
        The Project would consist primarily of firm-level technical assistance, institution-building
among business services providers, and regulatory changes at the municipal level inregard to
formalization of business. Based upon past experience elsewhere, the ELIP i s likely to include
support to MSBs inthe acquisition of clean technologies and to obtaining internationally
recognized certification systems for quality and environmental protection, such as I S 0 9,000 and
I S 0 14,000.




                                                   - 22 -

Safeguard Policies. This project involves:




5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NIA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                   Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consultedat the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NIA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
        The Project would also help to extend services support systems to women to help them
build market linkages, upgrade business skills and information access, and improve product
designs and quality. Since many BDS organizations are already involved in extending services to
women, the social impact i s likely to be significant.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
        E-Mexico, NAFIN and the Ministry of Finance have been an important vehicle to bring
together public and private interests in the design and implementation of the Project. In the


                                                   - 23 -

analytical work done on the Project, inputs have been provided directly by local community
organizations anxious to foster MSB development, by authorities at the municipal level
responsible for business regulation and local development, such as the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development and Secretary of Economic Development, and by private sector
organizations--- commercial banks, NGOs and technology firms. Work on specific issues has
also been substantially informed and directed by national surveys of M S B s by INEGIand Bank
sector work on the business climate and urban development.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
         NGOswill execute the Youth pilot, given the strong local community linksthat they
maintain inmany cases with at-risk youth. Local community organizations, particularlythose
associated with MSBs, will also participate in the development of the ICT-based business
development services to ensure they meet community needs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

         The principal focus of the Project i s MSBs within urban areas inthe six initial target
areas. The total indigenous populations of Mexico Throughout these areas runs from slight to
modest, amounting to 2.6% inMexico's Federal District (Mexico City), 0.6% inJalisco, 6.7% in
Mexico, 4.5% inMichoacan, 18.8% inPuebla and 14.3% inVeracruz. However, within these
states, including Puebla and areas in which the Project would be expected to draw clientele.
Nonetheless, given that most of the Project would be demand-based and MSBs operated by
indigenous people could be beneficiaries under the Project, the Project design would include an
outreach strategy, consistent with the Banks Operational Directive on Indigenous Peoples
(OD4.20), to facilitate and encourage their access to services.
         Under the Project, E-Mexico will contact and work closely with key indigenous
organizations, particularly in the Federal District, Puebla and Veracruz, to promote understanding
about and interest inthe Project. Participating E-BDS organizations will also be encouragedto
recruit and assign staff who speak local dialects and languages inorder to facilitate service
provision, as well as produce locally adapted promotion and training materials for this purpose.
For the business development services component of the Project, the ICT-based BDS pilot would
seek to recruit and train business center staff inlocations close to MSBs operated by indigenous
people experienced inworking inindigenous communities and to adapt the services it provides,
orally and inwritten materials, to use appropriate indigenous languages.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
         Performance indicators and monitoring of this aspect of the Project would be an integral
part of the overall system as described in Section C4 and Annex 1 of this report. In addition,
however, supervision work by the PCU and the Bank would scrutinize regularly the outreach
efforts described above, particularly in states with higher concentrations of indigenous
populations, through periodic visits and interviews with clients and local indigenous leaders.




                                                 - 24 -

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    Forestry(OP4.36, GP4.36)                                               0Yes 0     NO
    PestManagement (OP4.09)                                                0 0Yes     NO
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          0Yes 0     NO
    IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                              0Yes 0     NO
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                  0 0Yes    NO
    Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                        0 0Yes    NO
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)                0 0Yes    NO
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)"                      0 0Yes     NO


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
         Mexico's government at the highest levels has voiced its strong commitments which,
along with the continuity inthe private sector's involvement throughout the preparation process,
will help to ensure sustainedmomentumunder the implementation phase of the Project andof
meeting its institutional development goals. The design of the business climate reforms and
institutional improvements closely conforms to the Government's E-Mexico initiatives andhas
strong internal support both within the Federal Government and at many state levels.

        The E-business Learning and Innovation Program i s not intended to be sustained. It has a
defined exit policy, deliberately making it a temporary one-time efforts to reduce market failures.
However, experience elsewhere with mechanisms of this kindshow that they are likely to create
three sustainable effects: (i)having helped firms to meet the usually highcosts o f pre-commercial
learning, they encourage a durable commitment to new markets as long as operating costs are
covered; (ii) introduced firms to the benefits of usingbusiness development services,
              having
firms tend to recognize their full value and no longer need subsidies to motivate their use; and
(iii) encouragedevelopmentofalocalmarketofe-businesslearningandbusinessessupport.
     they




                                                 - 25 -

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                  Risk                           Risk Rating    I           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of sound management of ELIP                      N         Ensure wide publication & careful short listing
                                                                of candidates under Bank Guidelines

Lack of sound organization and                        M         Ensure use of best practices close private ICT
managementof ICT-basedBDS network                                sector links inBusiness Plan preparation &
                                                                implementation

Inadequate commitment to regulatory and               M         Disseminate benefits from cross-country
processreforms influencing MSBs at the                          experience & provide strong support fromMin.
municipal level                                                 Economy

Delays in Government-to-MSB electronic                M          Initial consensus-building on work plan at state
services reforms due to complexity of                            &municipal level & focus on critical path
regulatory reforms                                               change needs
FromComponentsto Outputs
TA to help prepare & implement                        M          Ensure adequate personnelexperience in
competitiveness plans not sufficient                             management contract

[CT-based BDS tools do not meet MSB                   M          Ensure close collaborationbetween ICT
needs                                                            programmers & MSBs

Regulatory change process not                         M          Ensure strong experience of consulting TA &
adequately managed                                               teamwork with municipalities
Overall Risk Rating                                   M



3. PossibleControversialAspects:



G. Main LoanConditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

   0    the NAFINAgreement and the NAFINAdministrative Agreement have been entered
        into:

   0    the PCUhas been established and i s operational;

        the Operational Manual has been submitted to the Bank;

   0    an administrative, financial and accounting system for the Project satisfactory to the Bank
        has been set up and i s fully operational;


                                                     - 26 -

        NAFINhasfurnishedto the Bank alegal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel
        acceptable to the Bank, showing that, on behalf of NAFIN, the NAFINAgreement and
        the NAFINAdministrative Agreement have been duly authorized or ratifiedby, and
        executedand delivered on behalf of, NAFINand are legally bindingupon NAFINin
        accordance with their terms, respectively, and

        the Secretariat has furnished to the Bank a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of
        counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that, o n behalf of the Secretariat, the NAFIN
        Administrative Agreement has been duly authorized or ratifiedby, andexecuted and
        delivered on behalf of, the Secretariat and i s legally bindingupon the Secretariat in
        accordance with its terms.

Loan Disbursement:

   0    For the E-business Learning and Innovation Program,the management contractor has
        been selected satisfactory to the Bank and the executed management agreement andlegal
        opinion on it have been furnished to the Bank.

Implementation:

        A business planfor the BDS Innovation Pilot for ICT-based business centersby June 30,
        2004, including the incorporation of the Youth Start component, containing specific
        designs satisfactory to the Bank covering the market analysis, e-readiness, objectives and
        services descriptions, organization and operation, financial management, implementation
        plan and performance monitoring and evaluation arrangements.

   0    Subproject modernization plans for investment and operating environments, satisfactory
        to the Bank and reflected inlocal government agreements are required for each local
        government subproject.

2. Other [classify according to covenanttypes usedinthe Legal Agreements.]



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a)  The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start of project implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.

0  2. The procurementdocuments for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
      project implementation.
   3. The ProjectImplementationPlan has been appraisedand found to be realistic and of satisfactory

04.Thequality.
          following items are laclung and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




                                                 - 27 -

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
Ix] 1.This project complieswith allapplicableBankpolicies.
02.The    following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                         Acting Director




                                                - 28 -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                  MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project



Sector-relatedCAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:       FromGoal to Bank Mission)
joster economic growth and   Raise overall economic          qational accounts              Goal - Bank mission)
educe poverty by increasing  growth to a sustainable 56%                                    lffective policy dialogue &
ccess to sustainable         per year, including by                                         iroject execution
reductive opportunities.     increasing income and
                             employment among micro and
                             small businesses



Voject Development           Outcome/ Impact                 'roject reports:               FromObjective to Goal)
Ibjective:                   Indicators:
lxpand e-business            (i)increase awarenesso f the    iurveys of a representative rlacroeconomic stability and
levelopment services markets benefits of e-business adoption ,ampleof participating firm    nodest growth rates
or MSBs,                     fro increasing competitiveness
                             and growth

                             (ii)ELIP: increased             iurveys o f a representative
                             competitiveness and market      iample of participating client
                             outreach among an estimated      m.
                             15,000participatingMSBs, as
                            measured by reaching through
                            e-business adoptionnew
                            markets, producing new
                            product designs and quality
                            improvements, increasing
                            production efficiency, andlor
                            adopting new management
                            practices inareas such as
                            marketing, finance, and
                            personnel, etc.. Also, changes
                            inthe number ofBDS
                            providers, services content,
                            quality and price;

                            (iii)E-BDS innovation pilot: luarterlyreportsfromBDS
                            BDS client outreach totaling :enters.
                            about 50,000 clients per year
                            at full operation and business
                            centers financial breakeven by
                            end of year 2 of reach center;

                            (iv) E-BDS innovation pilot Juarterly reports from BDS
                            for youth at risk: outreach of routh program.
                            about 5,000 youth, with results
                            measured by levels o f youth
                            newly employed in MSBs, job
                             retention rates and program
                            zost effectiveness.



                                                        - 29 -

ncrease ICT infrastructure  i)Increaseintemet                Juarterly reports by Project
ccess for MSBs & reduce the  onnectivity by at least 10,000 vlanagementUnit
ransaction costs of public   mss
osts o f public sector
equirements to establish andii)Transactiontimeandcost        Juarterly reports from
lperate MSBs.                avings to about 67 municipal    iarticipating govemments
                             ndstate governments on
                             :quirements to establish and
                             perate MSBs.




                                                       - 30 -

                                                             _ _ _ _ ~
 Iutput from each             Output Indicators:             Project reports:            from Outputs to Objective)
 :omponent:
 lemonstration o f increased  (i) Pre-competitive e-business
 dSB investments in           learning and innovation         Annual Implementation      iound management of ELIP
 re-competitive e-business    investments by at least 15,000 Reports, supervision by PMU,
 earning and innovation that  MSBs, producing trained staff: andBank supervision
 ielp build competitiveness   new information access,
 .ndmarket outreach of MSBs specialist advice, ador new
                              business partnerships
                              associated with business
                              processes such as market
                              research, product design &
                              quality improvements,
                              production efficiency,
                              marketing, financial and
                              personnel management;
                                                                                         lound organization and
                              (ii)networkof30ICT-based
                                  a                                                      nanagement of ICT-based
                              MSB development centers                                    iDS network
                              providing business skills
                              training & IT training, ICT
                              communications and
                              marketing outreach tools, and
                              PC-basedworkstations to help
                              solve business problems and
                              carry out e-commerce; and

                              (iii)E-BDSyouthtraining
                                   an
                              & placement pilot programin
                              at least 6 states providing new
                              sustainable employment in
                              firms.

deduced transaction costs o f Government-to-MSB               4nnual Implementation      jtrong commitment to
MSBs associated with          clectronic services in about 67 Reports, supervision by PMU egulatory and process reform
formalizing and operating     municipal and state            mdBank supervision          it the state & municipal levels;
their businesses.             government units responsible                               mly modest time delays to
                              For business registration,                                 :xecute reforms
                              procurement, licensing &
                              permits, labor & tax
                              regulations, etc.




                                                          -31-

                 Obje
'roject Components /          -                                  D

                               Inputs: (budgetfor each    A      'roject reports:             (from Componentsto
;ub-components:                component)                                                     Outputs)

I-business     learning    and (i)$5.0 million e-business        Juarterly Project Monitoring Adequate TA skills available;
nnovation program             benefits promotion program         IrEvaluationReports          contracts with local, int'lTA
                              for MSBs, continuos TA to                                       providers
                              develop & implement MSB
                              competitiveness plans, and
                              $16.4 million inmatching
                              grants for small firms and         'roject Mid-termReview by    Institutional capacity inplace
                              vouchers for microbusiness;        uly 31, 2005                 to expand
                              and (ii) $2.4 million in client
                              assistant and management
                              contract to help implement the
                              program.

3-BDS innovation pilot:       $7.4 million to cover the cost                                  Adequate TA to
CT-based BDS services and     of technical services,                                          prephmplement
elivery                       leasehold improvements,                                         competitiveness plans
                              furniture & fixture, & clients
                              dissemination costs associated
                              with development of a
                              network of 30 community
                              IT-based BDS centers.

:-BDS innovation pilot: MSB $1.7 million to cover startup                                     Job orientation adequate for
outh apprenticeships          Eosts & training expenses for                                   youth for work place needs
                              :ounseling, job preparation, &
                              job placement for youth in
                              firms.

iovemment electronic          $41.0million to cover the cost                                  Regulatory change process
mices for business to reduce 3f technical assistance,                                         adequately managed.
arriers to business formation :quipment and works to
Loperation                    :e-engineer & deliver
                              :lectronically municipal and
                              state government services for
                              USB business registration,
                              licensing & permits, labor &
                              :ax regulation, etc.




                                                           - 32 -

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$5.00 million
                    -
(1)E-businessAwarenessProgram

        Awareness-building on e-business benefits and training to build e-business know-how are
crucial to help establish an understanding of how new technologies can provide practical
benefits, how to apply them to business processes, and how to find appropriate independent
sources of help to do so. Inother OECD countries, this i s the most common form of e-business
promotion activity; even incountries like Finland and Ireland, which has achieved a highdegree
of digital penetration yet are focusing on very small firms. There are a wide range of
awareness-raising programs, from simple workshops and demonstrations to cluster- or trade
association-based initiatives, facilitation of exchange of experience among small business
entrepreneurs themselves ("peer to peer"), and growing efforts to articulate and disseminate
widely success cases showing best practices of front runners ine-business. Some countries also
utilize prizes and awards to give highvisibility and publicity to e-business adoption by small
business, as well as insome cases to promote further e-business ladder climbing (e.g., the UK,
France and Italy, which provide "e-business tuition"). Under the Project, awareness programs
will include simple workshops; general literature/web site promotion campaigns, demonstrators
and targeted awareness promotion; collaborative awareness (exchange of experience); and
awareness focusing on specific sectors.

Project Component2 USS19.90 million
                    -

(2) E-businessLearningandInnovationProgramfor Firms

        Objective and Rationale. The E-business Learningand Innovation Program(ELIP)
would help inimmediate terms Mexican firms to substantially boost growth, employment and
income through the adoption of e-business. The ELIPwould provide non-reimbursable
co-financing from the proceeds of the Bank's loan to help implement investments in
pre-competitive entrepreneurial learning and innovationprograms promoting e-business
adoption---mainly at the firm level by small firms and microbusinesses. The ELIPhas a strong
economic rationale as a public policy instrument for co-investment inlearning, much the same as
the country's formal education system, and i s patterned after successfulprograms found in
OECD countries. A ELIPi s often preferred to purelypublic and centralized support, as it
represents a public-private sector partnership inwhich resource allocation and service contracting
i s made at the market level on a demand-driven basis without targeting. The program i s expected
to have strong economic benefits over about 3 years in incremental exports, workers' income
and firm profits, and fiscal benefits from corporate taxes, payroll taxes and domestic VAT which
are likely to substantially exceed the cost to the Government of the Program.




                                                 - 33 -

         `%-business defined". "E-business", when well integratedwith a firm's business
processes and organization, involves considerable innovation inbusiness processes and tends to
have a positive impact on productivity, competitiveness and growth according to various studies
inChile and OECDcountries. "E-business" refers to the progressiveprocess of (1)investment in
information and communications technologies (ICT), such as personal computers (PCs), other
hardware equipment, software, Internet connectivity, and local and wide area networking; (2)
their application to individual business processes like market research, production, finance, and
management; and (3) the purchase and/or sale of goods and services between a business and
other businesses, households, individuals and/or governments over computerized networks.

        E-business adoption constraints. Constraints to e-business development by small
business are generally consistent with those observedinmany OECD countries. Network
infrastructure services and the security of electronic transactions are significant factors.
However, the most predominant constraints to move small business along the e-business ladder
involve awareness-building, skills development, access to ICT-basedbusiness services, and the
financing e-business innovation. Also, the complexity of mainstream ICT systems also
represents a substantial barrier to e-business adoption inChile, as inmany other countries, given
the country's large low-income microbusiness sector.

        Programmatic response. Awareness-building on e-business benefits and training to build
e-business know-how are crucial to help establish an understanding of how new technologies can
providepractical benefits, how to apply them to business processes, and how to find appropriate
independent sources of help to do so. A study by the University of Chile of businesses that were
not usingthe Internet found that a full 61% of respondents could not identify the business
benefits of digital technology. InOECD countries, this i s the most common form of e-business
promotion activity. While Chile i s making significant efforts downstream to build access to
digital tools through facilities and portals, its current efforts upstream to generate basic
e-business awareness among the very large number of small businesses needs strengthening.
Awareness-raising programs can benefit intheir design from benchmarking of programs in
leading OECD countries in this field, such as UK, Scotland, Sweden and Ireland. They should
include expanded information campaigns and workshops partnered with clusters and trade
associations, facilitate the exchange of experience among small business entrepreneurs
themselves ("peer to peer"); and incorporate success cases of e-business adoption by Chilean
small business.

ELIPPoliciesand Operations

        Temporarysupport and exit policy. The Program i s deliberately a temporary effort to
reduce market failures. Consequently, (a) fundingi s provided only once to a firm (though
several grants may be providedto implement one E-business Competitiveness Plan) to help
overcome such failures and facilitate market development of international business support
services, and (b) the Program itself would terminate after its 4-year implementation period.
Experience elsewhere shows that, once the Program has introduced firms to the benefits of the
activities being supported, they will recognize their full value and the asymmetry of information
and under-valuation of the benefits of international business support services will be substantially


                                                  - 34 -

alleviated.

         ELIPCore Services. The E-business LearningandInnovation Programwould provide
technical and financial assistance mainly to smaller private sector companies and to
micro-business enterprises, with the objective of assisting them to adopt e-business solutions to
improve their international competitiveness and integration with the global economy. T o
facilitate the rapid development of this market place, the ELIPwould use a combination of four
interventions:

    active promotion to the private sector of the benefits of usingbusiness development services
    to buildcompetitiveness;

    continuous technical assistance, free to individual firms, on how to (i)develop a
    competitiveness plan, (ii)  decide on service usage and apply to Window 1or 2; (ii)    select
    service providers; and (iii)  implement the plan and use the results;

    Window 1grant financing for enterprises, associations and clusters to support through
    matching grants the business development activities of small firms, funded from the proposed
    World Bank loan to the Government to co-finance activities and projects that would facilitate
    e-business adoption and improve the competitiveness of their operations; and

    Window 2 grant financing for low-income microbusinessesto support through a voucher
    system the use of development services by micro-enterprises, funded from the proposed
    Bank loan to co-finance the cost of basic e-business development services.

Window 1for small firms, associationsand clusters

        Objectives. Window 1(Wl) would offer grant support and related services to about
3,200 firms over about a three-year commitmentperiod. These services would be inrespect of
client-designedprojects that would tend to require from 3-6 months to complete; as a result, the
whole programwould be completed within about four years. Eligible firms would be those in the
industrial, agro-industrial, agricultural and services sector. The goals of W1 would be:

0   to facilitate the preparation of firms' e-business development plans, through the provisionof
    free technical assistance inthat process

0   to co-finance 50% the execution of these e-business plans through the offer of non-repayable
    matching grants, reimbursable to W1clients for eligible expenditures

0   to develop the private sector support infrastructure, by offering similar services to sector
    associations, cluster committees and commercial service providers.

        Coverage. A fund of US$17.6 million for W l would meet the anticipated demand, based
on an assumed average grant size of US$5,000 per firm, of an estimated 3,200 productive firms
inthe manufacturing, agro-industry and services sectors andwouldbeexpectedto be committed



                                                 - 35 -

and disbursed over a period of four years. With matching support coming from participating
firms, the total pre-competitive investments under W1 would be estimated at $35.2 million.
Underpinning this average would be a client segment with a larger average grant size (perhaps as
much as US$ 10,000) for the larger and more organized firms, with a smaller grant size (less than
US$3,000)for less developed firms. The actual usage of the total amount should, however, be
determined only on the basis of actual demand; there would be no pre-allocation or system of
reservation o f funds for any particular sector or activity type.

        Level of external financial support offered per transaction. The level of public sector
support has usually been set at 50% of the total cost of each firm's E-business Learningand
Innovation Plan. There are several reasonsjustifying this approach:

        to help motivate firms to increase competitiveness inthe face o f significant barriers
        perceivedparticularly by inexperiencedfirms as imperfections inthe business
        environment and highrisks of entering new markets (domestic or international);

        to reflect the fact that the benefits of such plans tend to have both privately appropriated
        benefits and externalities of benefit to others insociety;

        to ensure significant contributions by firms to the costs of such plans inorder to reduce
        the likelihood of irrelevant or low-value services being procured, which may otherwise
        result from providing free services which are not critically evaluatedby the firm

        increase commitment of firms to the successful execution of projects, and

        reduce the needfor and cost of detailed oversight of the use of public funds inthe course
        of plan implementation and utilize instead an ex-post assessment o f performance focused
        on outcomes.

        Basic firm eligibility and co-investment requirement. Eligibility would require that a
firmis willing to invest at least 50% of the firm's ownresources to cover the costs of a
well-defined and time-bound agreed E-business Learningand Innovation Plan designed to
increase the international competitiveness of existing products, or develop new products or new
markets. Inthis sense, participation inthe Program i s self-selecting, ensuring a firm's
commitment to good implementation and prompting invest of its own resources in
entrepreneurial learning.

        Firmsize and income level. Firmsaccessing W1of the Programwouldbe limited to
small-scale firms with less than 100employees. A total of US$15,000 would be the maximum
available to any single firm for all activities---the average co-investment amount per firm i s not
likely to exceed an average of about $5,000.

        Eligible pre-competitive activities. Activities eligible for financing associated with
e-business adoption under W1would includeprofessional service and training program fees to
help firms assess e-business costs and benefits, andprepare andimplement e-business plans to


                                                  - 36 -

re-engineer business processes, products, and ICT systems which enable e-business operation;
initial software and networkingcosts; website development, hosting and security certification;
and e-business information services. Salaries, other recurrent costs (such as office rental or
advertising) and capital goods are not eligible.

        Operating Sequence. Window 1would operate basically according to the following 11
steps:

    1. the Program would be widely promotedthroughout its life untilall funds are fully
        committed;
    2. interestedclients (including manufacturing andprocessing firms and groups of firms,
        commercial service providers and private sector organizations) would prepare proposals
        for grant assistance, with support and advice from the Contractor;
    3. these proposals would be validated by the contractor for conformity with a framework of
        rules approved by the Government and E-Mexico in advance;
    4. a letter of commitment (Grant Agreement) would be signedby the Contractor with the
        client, once the project i s confirmed as being compliant with the rules governing the
        program;
    5. the client would then execute the project and would be entitled to claim reimbursement of
        50% of eligible expenditures on presentation of a claim;
    6. a claim for reimbursement would consist of concrete evidence of the completion of the
        activity inquestion (or, inmany cases, a predefined stage of such an activity), together
        with supporting documentation;
    7. the Contractor would validate the completion evidence and documentation and would
        reimburse the Client by electronic transfer to the client's bank account;
    8. all disbursements made by the Contractor would be subject to independent audit by a
        private audit firm;
    9. the disbursement would be made from an imprest account (the Grant Account), which
        would be opened by the Ministry with the Contractor as sole signatory;
   10. a deposit would be placedinthe Grant Account by the Government, amounting to the
        anticipated value of one month's expected disbursements;
   11. the Grant Account would be replenishedwhen the value of disbursements would have
        reduced to 50% of its initial value and the audit of those disbursement would take place
        immediately, so as to limit the extent of disbursementspending audit to a value not
        normally greater than, say, half a month's average disbursements.

        Plansupervision and reimbursement. Under W1, quarterly personal visits and
monitoringreports of plan implementation would be made by Program management,
reimbursement (not upfront disbursement) of 50% of total qualified expenses under the Plan, and
certification of all expenditures by qualified independent auditors. E-Mexico, with the help of
qualifiedindependent evaluators, will make a quarterly progress and an impact assessmentof the
Program.

Window 2 for microbusinesses




                                                 - 37 -

        Window 2 (W2) would offer voucher support to micro-enterprises to facilitate and
encourage steps ine-business adoption over a four-year periodtotaling US$1.4 million. With
financing of 80% of total estimated services cost, the total pre-competitive investment under W2
i s estimated at $1.7 million. The target group would be establishedmicro-enterprises (employing
less than five people) with potential for growth. The goals of W 2 would be:

        to establish and manage a program of voucher support to the micro-enterprise sector in
        respect o f basic business development services;
        to offer service vouchers of about 48,000, which with an average estimated value per
        enterprise of US$30per voucher and use of an average of 4 vouchers per enterprise,
        would enable about 11,700 microbusinesses to participate;
        to motivate andpre-qualify a wide range of e-business BDS providers to participate inthe
        Program;
        to monitor the operation of the program against formal quality assurance objectives,
        policies and procedures;
        to conduct systematic audits of the transparency and professionalism of all phases of the
        system, from promotion through to service delivery, including the actual participation of
        beneficiaries as claimed by the submission of the voucher.

        Eligible Services. Entrepreneurs would receive a limited number of vouchers (five or
six, but in any case, not more than ten for all types of services) from the Program's centers.
Differentvoucher types would be issued (with different face values) for different types of eligible
service. These services would comprise pre-qualified business development services associated
with e-business inbusiness planning, product andprocess development, management and
technical training, marketing and sales, and firm support services, such as market and technical
information, human resources, finance and administration.

        The vouchers would each have a fixed money value and could each be used only to
contribute to the cost of one eligible service type that would have been pre-qualified for
participation inthe Program. Inorder to maintain a control over the allocation and utilizationof
overall programresources, the vouchers should also have a fixed period of validity - of the order
of six months. Requests for the replacement of expired vouchers should be honored untilthe last
months of the life of the Program.

        The face value of the vouchers would be set lower than the lowest price available for the
service type, usually so as to require a contributionby the client o f at least 20% of the price of the
service. Inthe case of services priced at higher levels, the proportion of the cost contributed by
the client would be correspondingly higher. As aresult, service suppliers wouldbe under
pressure to keep the price of their services low. On the other hand, because they would have to
contribute part of the price inadvance from their own resources, clients would be keen to seek
the best quality offer available. Experience indicates that the value of the vouchers as a
proportionof the price ranges from 50% to 80%. Ineither case, the contribution of the client i s
seen as sufficient to ensure commitment. Experience also suggests that it i s useful to include a
provision inthe design of such programs for a declining value of voucher for second and
subsequent applications by clients.


                                                 - 38 -

        Pre-qualification of service suppliers. The focus inthe identificationand
pre-qualification of service suppliers i s to establish a highlevel of dependability inthe services to
be supported by the program. Word-of-mouth referral by early participants i s a key factor in
ensuring long-term success; as a result, early identification of quality services relevant to the
commercial development needs of the target firms (micro-businesses) i s critical. Inpractice,
such programs pre-qualify a large number of alternative suppliers of services to the
micro-enterprises, inorder to ensure a minimumtechnical competence inthe delivery of the
specific service. The process of pre-qualification should continue after the initial phase, in order
to encourage participation by a continuously growing number of service providers, thus
strengthening competition inthe services sector and improving the quality of services available
to micro-businesses. The voucher program itself does not support the development of services
by accredited suppliers, but such development would normally be eligible for support under a
MatchingGrant type of program, if one operates alongside the voucher program.

        Outreach. The numbers involvedrequire the extensive use of intermediaries inreaching
the target audience of the program to the extent required by the overall objective of the window.
These intermediaries would include NGOs, civic groups, non-bank andbank credit programs
aimed at the sector. However, the process of voucher issue would not be delegatedto third
parties, inorder to 36. maintain a defensible level of consistency and quality assurance inthe
process. Instead, a team of Mexican agents, hiredby the management contractor, would be
responsible for the issue of vouchers to micro-entrepreneurs inMexico and other areas of the
country. The tasks of the agents would be to (a) promote the voucher program to the
micro-business community through intermediaries and information campaigns, and (b) assess
applicants for compliance with eligibility criteria and issue vouchers to them. Each agent would
issue vouchers to about 100 entrepreneurs each week

        Operating Sequence. Window 2 would involve the following basic sequence of
operation:

    1. the voucher opportunity wouldbe widely promotedthrough E-Mexico, service suppliers
        and credit institutions serving the micro-business sector throughout the life of the
        Program, until all funds are fully committed;
   2. ten agents of the Program, all trained inthe assessment of applications, would issue
        vouchers inaccordance with specific quality assurance procedures;
   3. two senior executives of the programwould be responsible for supervising this team of
        agents and auditing their performance;
   4. service providers would be pre-qualified to participate inthe Program, under a
        promotional campaign conductedby the senior executives and would be subject to
        continuing audit by them throughout the life of the Program;
   5. vouchers would be redeemableby the service providers on completion of the delivery of
        the service;
   6. the Contractor would validate the completion evidence and documentation and would
        reimbursethe service providerby electronic transfer to the client's bank account;
   7. all disbursements made by the Contractor would be subject to independent audit by a


                                                 - 39 -

        private audit firm;
    8. the disbursement would be made from an imprest account (the Voucher Account), which
        would be opened by the Ministry with the Contractor as sole signatory;
    9. a deposit would be placedin the Voucher Account by the Government, amounting to the
        anticipated value of one month's expected disbursements, basedon a plan preparedby the
        Management Contractor;
   10. the Voucher Account would be replenished when the value o f disbursements would have
        reduced to 50% of its initial value;
   11. the audit of those disbursement would take place immediately, so as to limit the extent of
        unaudited disbursements to a value not normally greater than half a month's average
        disbursements.

       Disbursementprocedures. The micro-business client pays his/ her cash contribution
before the service i s delivered and if satisfied, pays the balance due at the end by handing the
service provider the voucher, endorsed by the signature of the client. Vouchers that have been so
endorsed are redeemable on completion of the service delivery by the provider. On receipt of a
claim by a service provider, the Management Contractor of the programvalidates the voucher
and the signature of the entrepreneur to whom it was issued. He then reimburses the service
provider to the value of the voucher.

       Monitoringandsupervision of operationsandimpact. The success of voucher
programs i s based on their continuing relevance to the needs of the clients. The justification for
their operation i s based on the market-driven nature o f the support they offer to the development
of a market inbusiness services for micro-enterprises. The continuity of that relevance mustbe
ensured through a process of monitoring the patterns of usage of the services supported by the
Program-bothto encourage the development of services demanded by the clients and to avoid
the abuse of the system to develop inappropriate services, or fraudulent claims based on no
service delivery.

       Experience of voucher programs to date shows that the pattern of usage varies widely
between accreditedproviders. Effectiveprogram management assesses patterns of usage of
vouchers to influence the pre-qualification process applied to service providers and to give
feedback to all service providers on demand patterns. This monitoringprocess should also
monitor the impact of the program in developing secondary demand for these courses, which i s
not supported by vouchers. The role of the management inthis regard should also monitor the
impact o f programs on the participants' conduct of their business through a regular process of
surveying practice modifications by them following the completion of the service offered.

ClientAssistance, ProgramManagementand Supervision.

       ClientAssistance andManagement. The Programwould utilize an independent private
contractor for Program client assistance and management, selected in accordance with the Bank's
Consultant's Guidelines and reporting to a Supervisory Committee setup within the E-Mexico
management unit.As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would adopt the
Program Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and hire the contractor. The initial


                                                  - 40 -

estimated cost of this contract i s US$2.3 million. The principaltasks of the contractor would be
to:

    0    promote the Program services andbenefits to the target audiences inthe enterprise and
         micro-business sector
    0    provide assistance to interestedfirms to prepare their competitiveness plans and build
         commitment inparticipating firms by providing high-quality services to them;
    0     appraise and approve individual applications less than or equal to $10,000 equivalent;
         monitor results and impact of the program on the operations of participating enterprises;
    0    meet the reporting requirements of the Project Technical Committee and the World Bank.

         Managing the overall Program would be the responsibility of a Program Manager, who
would report on policy and performance to the Supervisory Committee. H i s operational
responsibilities would be:

    0    key client contact;
    0    direction and operational supervision of the Program;
    0    establishment and maintenance of a Program quality assurance system to international
         standards;
    0    supervision of the financial control of Program operations;
    0    intemal audit of these operations;
    0    relationships with the independent auditors of financial diligence.

         The other members of the management team would be a financial accountant and a
computer systems manager. Inorder to execute the Program efficiently and effectively, the
contractor would be required to establish regional windows to service clients outside, initially
establishedinthe project's 6 starting regions. Regional project unitswould incorporate three
account executives ineach office for this purpose.

         A key aspect of managementi s the personal nature of the service supplied by the Program
to its clients through its professional staff. The professional and support staff would assist firms
inthe development of their plans and also, would operate the Window 1by assisting clients avail
of its benefits. This team should possess a range of experience and expertise that would be
relevant to the profile of beneficiary firms. It would operate primarily as advisers to firms,
helpingthem identify their best options for improving the competitiveness of their firms and for
export development. As a result, the relationship between the team and their clients should be
supportive, rather thanjudgmental. Ideally, they should see themselves as having a role to help
firms benefit from the Program, by contributing to the analysis of the strategic issues facing the
firm andidentifyingthe best options for addressing these issues. The role wouldnot inany sense
result in the team member being a consultant who would solve the technical or marketing
problems facing a firm

         Program management would consist of the Program Manager and two Senior Technical
Consultants (STCs), all with specific international experience inprograms comparable to the
ELIP. The role of the STCs would be to:



                                                 -41 -

        advise and assist program executives, assistants and support staff inproject regional
       offices situated inNAFI"s office network,
       provide detailed specialist advice to client firms and organizations at the stage of
       preparing their projects,
       assist clients inidentifying not only solutions to the client's development problems, but
       also, sources of these solutions,
       present project proposals for co-financing to the ProgramManager (and the Supervisory
       Committee, if required),
       monitor and assist clients duringproject implementation,
       validate the technical compliance of project execution with the approval agreedbetween
       the Program and the Client.

Each STC could be expected to manage a portfolio of about ninety clients in a year - at varying
stages of the client project cycle.

       Supervision. The Supervisory Committee would consist of 3 members. The main role
of the Committee would be to focus on the (1) selection of the contractor, (2) adoption of the
Operating Manual and amendments as necessary, (3) regular monitoring of Program
implementation by the contractor, and (4) evaluation of its impact. Inaddition, where grant
requests by recipients exceeded $10,000 equivalent per investment, such requests would be
submitted for review and non-objection by the Committee.

       Programs that are well-supervised have significantly better records of success than others.
The nature of the supervision i s critical, to ensure that it i s and remains sensitive to the objectives
of the Program and not to other agendas. It i s also important that it be constituted ina way that
permits it to operate efficiently and transparently. Key design elements in successful Program
supervision would include:

   0   establishment of a system of management-by-objectives, inthe form of annual work plans
       and targets, which would be reported on quarterly
   0   a primary focus on policy guidance and quarterly review of performance and results
       against such objectives
   0   delegation of operations and decision-making on individual grants to the contractor
       operating under detailed policies and procedures -preferably defined to I S 0 standards
   0   quarterly ex-post reviews of operational decisions on the part of the Project Technical
       Committee.

       Financial Controls. An important issue would be the need to achieve the correct balance
between the control and efficiency aspects of the operations of the Program. Clearly, as the
sovereign borrower o f the funds to be used to finance the Program, the Government of Mexico
has an obligation to ensure that these funds are properly allocated and not misused inany way.
At the same time, the experience of matching grant programs has shown that the application of
public sector financial administration not only does not achieve this goal but, inmany
circumstances, it can contribute to its frustration. At best, the adaptation of public sector


                                                 - 42 -

procedures can lead to a cumbersome loss of efficiency that i s at variance with the needs for an
efficient and transparent system of financial control. Best international practice inthese
programs has shown that these types of problem are most easily avoidedby:

   0    establishing a supervisory committee of mixed private-public sector origins;
   0    selecting the members of that Board at a highlevel of experience and integrity;
   0    insistingon the Management Contractor establishing appropriate quality assurance and
        financial control mechanisms; subjecting the Management Contractor to regular private
        sector audit of financial performance;
   0    undertaking (usually inconjunction with World Bank supervisors) an annual ex post audit
        of overall professional, technical and financial performance;
   0    establishing a special Grant Fundbank account in a commercial bank, with the
        Management Contractor as the sole authorized signatory; the grant funds would be
        lodgedto that account on a phased basis, always ensuring that funds would be available
        to meet the needs of clients.

        To increase Program transparency, all grant approvals and rejections would be posted
daily on the Program's web page.

Expected Socio-Economic Benefits.

        Qualitatively speaking, at least 3,200 mainly smaller private firms, associations and
clusters would be expected to benefit under Window 1and 15,000 microbusinesses under
Window 2 for Project investments ine-business entrepreneurial learning and innovation.
Beneficiaries are expected to accrue domestic and international market awareness and
know-how, forming the basis for a change inbusiness behavior, which inmany cases will lead to
increase their international competitiveness and outward-oriented growth. Inimmediate terms,
this change wouldbereflectedinnew domestic and internationalbusiness market
partners---market and product information sources, suppliers, private associations, potential
buyers, potential foreign investors, etc.


Project Component3 US$4.60 million
                    -
(3) E-BDS Business Centers Innovation Pilot

        BDS markets are often highly developed in advanced economies. InMexico, as most
elsewhere ineconomically development countries, business development services are few and
only cover an estimated 2-3% of low-income M S B entrepreneurs---less than 5% of the market.
Existing BDS providers consist mainly of local universities, the government, specialized
management institutions and NGOs. Most universities are not oriented toward entrepreneurs, do
not have non-degree business programs, especially for lower formally-skilled and lower-income
segments of the market, and are not making full use of current distance learning systems.

        Information and communications technology (1CT)-based BDS offer a very substantial
potential to accelerate small business market access and competitiveness, but require the
development of higher value-added information, analytical and marketing services, and


                                                - 43 -

eventually e-commerce capability---just to keep the ICT gap from growing rather than shrinking
inMexico. ICT-based BDS are available only inmodest quantities and highly concentratedin
the modem sector. Several commercial for-profit Internet cafes and similar organizations exist
which offer basic ICT services. Clientele consist mainly of a mix of students, entrepreneurs and
tourists which are among higher educated and upper income groups. Basic business services are
available ina variety of the main urban locations, but support only elementary marketing needs
with basic copying services, letterheads, cards, posters, andbrochures. Muchmore limited are
services for packaging, labeling, fax services, and fast mail services. More limitedstill among
MSBs are access to personal computers and printingfacilities. Inaddition, few entities provide
access to multiple services in one location and most services are not accompanied by skilled
human assistance and guidance on content and quality---a vital inputparticularly for those with
lower formal education. Infact, most of this entrepreneurial group does not even know of the
existence of such services. Inthe absence of a concerted effort to expand access to ICT services
for smaller businesses, large firms and high-spending, sophisticated consumers will continue to
expand the "digital divide".

    Objective. The immediate objective of this sub-component (tentatively titled "Mexico
MicroNet") would be to raise earnings of at least 50,000 low-income micro and small businesses
by increasing their business skills, market access and operational competitiveness. MicroNet,
usinga for-profit private-public sectorjoint venture model, would deliver integrated
communications and information technology-based business development services (BDS) with
strong community outreach and financially sustainability. MicroNet's target clientele would be
two large markets: (i)  very low-income microbusinesses, the majority of which are female with
low literacy and numeracy levels, only about 2-3 years of primary education; and (ii)  more
complex micro- and small businesses (light manufacturing, wholesale/retail commerce, and
professional/personal services) having sound literacy and numeracy skills. Direct consultations
have been held with potential clients, which are reflected inMicroNet's partial business plan and
would enable such clients to expand beyondtheir own low-income economies to establish
market linkages with higher income segments of the national and, for some, international
markets, and to increase competitiveness. The success of MicroNet would be determined by
actual client outreach, MicroNet financial sustainability, and microbusiness development impact
on growth client base, productivity, sales and net income.

        Sub-component design. The basic strategy behindMicroNet i s to help drive M S B
growth by expanding connections with higher income segments of the national and international
market and buildingbusiness management skills. Design services and delivery to match key
client characteristic---ability to pay, prevailing education and experience, gender, sector, work
environment and availability---and expand mutually reinforcing services having a strong
developmental impact at low-income levels.

        MicroNet would consist of a network of 30 community-based centers and a supporting
hub,linked to existing community infrastructure for strong involvement. Itwouldbe operatedby
experienced private sector management supported by governing partnership o f successful local
business partners, BDS NGOs and the Government. It would include a strong staff training
program and performance pay incentives, combined with a vigorous BDS promotion program. It


                                                 - 44 -

would be built upon current initiatives of the Secretary of Economy and NAFIN. The Secretary
of Economy i s currently engaged ina pilot project involving a dedicated distance learning system
for small business management (Centros de VinculacionEmpresarial). CVE, which i s now
beingdesigned and tested, will connect a training center hubvia satellite with dedicated
PC-basedfacilities equipped with specialized training software and located ina number of
chambers of commerce in various regions of Mexico. The connections accommodate two-way
exchange via internet of data, video and voice for a variety of short-term course, which are
planned to be provided at a reasonable $3 per training-hour. The plan calls for progressively
growing the network throughout the country.

        MicroNet would progressivelybuild 3 service lines. First,to help build microbusiness
know-how and information technology skills, it would provide (a) business management skills to
groups of small business entrepreneurs via non-formal education techniques, (b) information
technology training, including an overview of BDS to promote understanding of their economic
value, and (c) distance learning and conferencingon M S B issues inMexico and internationally.
Second, to facilitate access to new higher income markets, it would provide assisted access to (a)
telephone, fax, photocopies, scanning, e-mail, mailhhipping, computer word processing &
printingservices, and (b) coaching andmaterials, designs and techniques to increase market
penetration through advertising (posters, handouts, long-distance advertising andmail-order),
labeling and packaging. And third, to increase business competitiveness, it would offer self-help
and coached (a) productivity workstations with software wizards for simplifiedbusiness planning
and problem-solving inproduction, financehredit and marketing for business expansion; (b)
business networking to locate suppliers and price trends, other sources o f business information
and advice, organize group discount purchasing of raw materials, etc., and (c) electronic
commerce for information exchanges with suppliers, customers and creditors, web page
promotional outreach to new markets, and business-to-business collaboration inproduct design,
materials supply and product distribution.

       Implementation. A Business Plan for MicroNet, incorporating these design parameters
and satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed by June 30, 2004. MicroNet i s being
developed with strong public-private collaboration between the Government's E-Mexico and
local chambers of commerce and ICT specialists. The key role of the Government i s risk
mitigation of essentially a pure research and development initiative, inexchange for strong
learningexternalities. It would be launched as a public-private trust having major synergies for
both parties: for the Government, to exercise its role to encourage (i)  broadpublic awareness of
the development value of IT,(ii)    private participation increating IT applications and local
content for lower-income groups, (iii)    extension of IT services outside of the Metropolitan area,
and (iv) increased competition in the local IT services market at reasonableprices. For the
private sector, it would engage successful business management experience and draw upon the
capabilities of business-oriented NGOs, which have substantive skills and business interests in
the success of the microbusiness sector, and provide new opportunities for local ITproviders of
internet services, programming and local content to reach new markets.

       Initial total capital costs for this network are estimated at US$7.4 million, of which $5.0
million (67%) would cover the physical development o f the centers and $2.3 (33%) would


                                                 - 45 -

finance learning and innovation costs. The Bank financing, amounting to $4.7 million, would
meet the costs o f (a) technical services to help complete the business plan, (b) pre-operating
development expenses, including software, hardware and systems adaptations, and local content
development, (c) a portion of facilities and equipment costs, (d) the transfer of skills and
technology through staff andmanagement training, (e) a client voucher programto increase
awareness of ICT-based BDS, and (f)other non-recurrent costs associated with pilot learning and
experimentation, such as technical assistance to advise on MicroNet management operations,
quality assurance and impact evaluation.

        An importantgoal of MicroNet is to provide apositive overall rate of returnthrough
sound service pricing and maximumcost efficiency of operations. MicroNet's main design
parameters would include financial breakeven for each center by the end of its second year 2 of
operation, net income of about 5% of revenues by the end of year 4, and payment of VAT taxes
from the inceptionof operations and income taxes to the Government from year 3. To
accomplish this, service prices to be paidby clients would be set to fully cover direct delivery
costs (including cost of goods sold, employee expense, facilities expense, and general
administrative expense). These are expected to be affordable for MSBs, amounting to an
estimated 0.5-1.5% of sales. At the same time, due to its new and quite experimental nature, the
cost of development and updating neededto provide micro- and small business-appropriate value
added through the provision of ICT local content, adaptation of hardware and software, and skills
training would be covered separately as an R&D cost supported by the Bank's loan. M S B
development impact i s expected to be substantial and manifest itself inchanges inM S B practices
(new products, higher quality products, new or lower cost sources of productioninputs,keeping
books, etc.), new client bases inhigher income markets, and higher rates of employment and
profitability.


Project Component4 US$1.70 million
                    -
(4) E-BDSYouth Start Innovation Pilot

        Rationale. Young people under age 25 comprise a very large segment o f the urban
population inMexico. There i s a very highlevel of unemployment and under-employment
among such youth from ages 16 to 25 inurban areas. Typically, a young person looking for ajob
has dropped out of the educational system, has a low level of formal education, and little or no
previous work experience. They are frequently inadequately preparedby traditional educational
systems for either wage employment or entrepreneurship. They may also be poorly motivated to
seek work and lack the social experiences to understand and adapt to the work place. Young
males inparticular, left with unstructuredtime and no immediate employment prospects, are
more likely to resort to crime, violence, and druguse. They need intermediary support and
concretejob options to break this vicious circle. On the other hand, firms often do not have a
ready source of workers who can contribute as they begin to expand operations.

Broad-based evidence suggests that the most important interventions for at-risk youth are to help
them to remain in school andreceive quality instruction, andto reach thembefore negative
outcomes occur by investing inprevention programs. The types of primaryprevention programs
may cover some five different and complementary approaches: (i)      school drop-out prevention;


                                                 - 46 -

 (ii) placement,vocationalorientationandlifeskills;(iii)
    job                                                         vocational training and income
 generation; (iv) health promotion; and (v) social integration and political participation. Within
 this context, the proposedE-BDS Youth Start InnovationPilot essentially falls within the second
 category. Its fundamental distinction from other programs would be its effort to utilize a
 combination of ICT-based and counselor services to extend to at-risk inurban poverty. It would
emphasize the following basic strategies:


 0      Improve the school-to-work transition by linking life skills training tojob placement.
Educational systems often emphasize traditional academic fields, with young people leaving
these schools possess little understanding of private enterprises or how to respond to
entrepreneurial opportunities that could create self-employment or wage employment inthe MSB
formal and informal sector. Incorporating youth in firms experiencing basic skills shortages or
which are growing provides a win-win opportunity for them to get on-the-job training (which
often has the highest economic returns to training investment) and earn wages, while providing
firms with additional labor.


0       Work with both the informal andformal sectors. Focus particularly on those youth who
do not qualify for or who are not readily adaptable to most formal sector skills training programs.
The preferred objective would be for the youth to secure ajob inthe formal sector economy; in
the absence of such an option, which may be often, an opportunity inthe informal sector can be
sought.


0       Public-private sector partnership. Cross-country experience shows that governments and
non-governmental organizations commonly emphasize more public welfare policy approaches
than business development. While government participation i s necessary to create an overall
environment of supportive policies and educational support, reliance on limitedpublic sector
funding and the capabilities of existing public sector institutions has not maximized the level of
technical or financial support that could be obtained from the private sector. Corporations and
other private sector entities also have increasingly recognized the need to better train and offer
constructive activities for this large pool of unskilled, unemployedyouth. However, avenues for
practical, long-term collaboration are few and have seldom been fully developed or implemented.

        Relationship management approach. The Program would provide individualized care by
developing a plan for each participant managedby one "instructor/monitor" throughout its
implementation and emphasizing a personal relationship between each at-risk youth and a caring
adult staff member. It would also use of youth group counseling and peer group support for
reinforcement for personal development.

      Objective. The Program would aim to increase sustainable employment prospects for at-risk
youth between the ages of 16 and 25 years old, so as to reduce such risks and raise their incomes.
The Program would essentially be a job market bridge serving to insure the flow of information
between employers and low-income youth who would otherwise not have access to such
information and do not know what i s expected from them in the workplace. The program would
provide youth with (i)  training on how to function in the workplace and keep a job, (ii) to  help
determine one own vocational and occupational interests, and (iii)           help to identify actual


                                                 - 47 -

employment options. To the extent possible, the participating businesses would be located inthe
neighborhoods where disadvantaged youth live.

         Component Design. The program would be open to young persons who live within the
Project's urban, are between the ages of 16-25           years old, out of school, unemployed or
employed only part-time.         It would involve the following steps over five weeks using a
combination of PC-based software programs and instructor/counselor-led support: (1) initial
screening on client interests, motivations and attitudes, and skills to help tailor subsequent steps
inprogram; and (2) training in life skills and world of work job preparation, and provision of
personal and vocational guidance counseling, consisting of :

   0     personal skills reinforcement (self-esteem and self-confidence building, problemkonflict
        resolution, family support, peer networking);
   0    personal financial management and time management;
   0    job social skills reinforcement (communications, work place practices and ethics, etc.);
   0     generic job business skills reinforcement (literacy, numeracy, etc.);
   0     orientation to microbusiness (eg, BEST simulation game);
   0    interviews and screening for entrepreneurial skills andjob placement;
   0    training in how to fill out ajob application and interview for ajob.

        Referrals as neededfor tutoring andremedial literacy and numeracy training would also
be provided along with vouchers to partiallycover their cost. This step would lead to a client
certificate of completion to be provided to recognize that the program's highstandards were met.
Inorder to develop a solidreputation with the business community, the Program would maintain
rigorous standards and would not provide such certification unless they were truly met. This
would be followed byjob placementbrokered by the Program between the youth and a firm, or
via the youth himself/herself directly identifying an firm inhis/her community with whom to
work. This would thereafter be supported as neededby follow-up support and counseling for up
to one year from the initialjob placement. The Program would assist program graduates to find
another job in the event that he/she loses ajob for other than illegal reasons, recognizing that,
particularly for low-income youth, the first or secondjob experience i s often a learning
experience and as such may be short-term.

        Program coverage. The Project would seek to provide program services to
approximately 5,500 youth during its implementation period. The initial estimates of demand by
region are as follows:. MCxico City (1000 youths trained and placed in three years), el Estado de
MCxico (lOOO),     Jalisco (lOOO),  Puebla (750), Veracruz (750), Hidalgo (500) and Michoachn
(500).

        Management and stajfing. The Program would be implemented through one or more
qualified NGOs under Bank Guidelines within the Project ICT-based business development
centers.    The emphasis would be on decentralized service provision in each area, which
experience shows would have more program flexibility and effectiveness and a better chance
later for successful scaling up. Careful attention would be given to sustained staff training and
remuneration, given in particular the weaknesses in these areas by many similar programs in the
region due to relatively low salaries and highlevels of stress and resultant turnover rates.


                                                - 48 -

        Program cost andfinancing. The total cost of the Program i s initially estimated at $1.7
million to cover start-up costs ($0.2 million) and the program cost of initial screening, training,
counseling, certification follow-up and administration ($1.5 million). Start-up costs required to
establish the program in each state would require funds for training materials and training of
trainers courses for the first group of instructor/monitors, for software development for online
training, and the purchase of ICT equipment. Program costs would include trainer costs, center
space fees, marketing costs. A non-governmental organization, selected under Bank Guidelines,
would take operating responsibility to implement component activities, develop the training of
trainers materials for instructor/monitors, and provide the Program's courses.

        Performance risks, indicators and impact evaluation.          The key performance risk
will be that the pilot does not ultimately reduce youth at-risk factors or enhance their longer-term
income. T o mitigate these risks, the program managers would put strong emphasis on the life
skills portion of the program, which has in some program elsewhere, been seen to lead to high
rate of success in vocation training and graduate employment and maintain periodic contact with
program graduates for a period of up to 2 years for the purposes of offering further program
support and for program evaluation. The Program would incorporate activities to regularly monitor
impact in terms of the following performance indicators:

        youth profiles of the levels, trends and underlying reasons for       (1) absence from or
        dropping out of school, (2) premature entry inthe labor market, and (3) delinquency, use
        of drugs and alcohol, teen pregnancy and        prostitution;
        youth needs and preferences for programcontents;
        benefits generated by the program, using such outcome indicators as levels of youth
        satisfaction with the program;
        increasedlevels of measured self-esteem;
        preventionheduction inhighrisk behaviors (delinquency, violence, drugs, prostitution);
       job placement rates at the end of the program and income levels;
        comparatives with other youth programs, and
        rigorous and transparent accounting for program and administrative costs, and
        cost-effectiveness data in terms of program costs per youth (distinguishing between
        program elements and incorporating estimates of any in-kindcontributions).




                                                 - 49 -

      E-Mexico Business Development 2      vices    omponen .Estimated Cost
                                            Indica  Share of Bank-     Share of
                                             tive    Total   Financi    Bank
                                            costs   Compon     ng     Component
                                             (US$ ent Cost   (US$MI   Financing
                                             MI      (%I                (%I

 (1)E-businessAwareness Program              5.0                5.0

(2) E-businessFirm-level Learning &         36.3               19.9
Innovation Program
0 Client assistance & management contract    5.0                5.0
0 Small business matching grant window       2.4                2.4
0 Microbusiness voucher window              32.2               16.1
                                             1.7                1.4

(3) E-BDS business centers innovationpilot   7.6                4.6

(4)E-BDSyouth start innovationPilot
  start-up costs                             1.7                1.7
  Programexpenses                            0.2                0.2
                                             1.5                1.5
Total ComponentCosts                        50.4      100%     31.2 I        61.9




                                               - 50 -

                                               Annex 2(b)
                        Mexico Urban Micro and Small Business Project
                                       Project Design Summary

Increase M S B Access to ICT Infrastructureand New Economy Business Services
Component

         The E-Mexico system. InMexico, e-government, e-health, e-science, e-education and
e-commerce, are the five pillars o f E-Mexico, an initiative launchedby President Fox in
December 2001. Its mission i s to increase digital participation and reduce socioeconomic
differences among Mexicans by using a system with technological and social components.
E-Mexico targets elementary services as learning, health, commercial exchange and government
procedures. At the same time, the purpose of this initiative i s to become the spearhead of
technological development in the country. The System i s organized into three axes: connectivity,
contents and systems (Figure 1).

        Up to now, the e-Mexico actions interms of connectivity have addressed two different
aspects: (1) Investments performed by network operators incommunications to increase the
structure and the coverage of the telephone service inMexican homes, which aims at passing
from 12 lines per 100inhabitants during year 2000, to 25 telephone lines per 100inhabitants in
2006. (2) The creation of a network of Community Digital Centers (CDCs) which serve to
connect population and families who don't count with communication support due to economic
and geographic restrictions. These technologies are necessary to access connectivity devoted to
home requirements.

        The contents pursuedby e-Mexico are: (1) e-Learning: new options of access to
education and training by stimulating the way to learn as a means of development for Mexicans.
It will promote education as accessible as possiblerespectingpeoples' identity and cultural
traditions. (2) e-Health: efforts to increase the standard welfare and national health inthe society
by integrating a system of technological and social content. (3) e-Economy: initiatives to
accelerate the process of the digital economy development inenterprises, specially the micro and
small ones, to increase the competitiveness of the Mexican economy and develop a culture of
digitalization in society, particularly within consumers. (4) e-Government: the system expects
that the Mexican people will use this as a way to execute their right to be informed and access the
services of the country by using the net at regional, urban and local levels (Figure 2).

        Interms of systems, e-Mexico concentrates on three aspects: (1)A Portal of portals,
based on the an individual frame to the citizen by aligning the portals of e-Learning, e-Health,
e-Economy, e-Government, e-Science, technology and industry; county, regional, local and urban
portals. (2) A neutral pointfor accessing the net: It i s referred to the center where the traffic of
data network will be channeled through the network operators whether they're public or private.
This way, all contents ine-Mexico will be optimized without taking the informationout of the
country or passingit by bilateral agreements between carrier operators inMexico. (3) A
Government's Data Center or the necessary equipment to concentrate the systems to operate
e-M6xico, linkingthe rest of resident contents ineach office or entity.



                                                 -51 -

Figure 1


                                E-Mexico                                    m
                                                                        Mexico
           ~




                                                                          26


Figure2




    /-

       Servicesfor smalland            Withan innovationand a fatal
       medium sizedbusinesses:         quality appraach:
    >  Reengineeringof the value       Multiply citizens services on-line

    >  chains                        >>Alignment of local, state, regional
       Promote national and            and federal services
       international markets
    >                                > All citizen centered services
       Enable communicationamong     > Preserving privacy and security
       business, customers and
      suppliers




                                    - 52 -

          The operational structure of e-Mexico i s hostedby the Communications and
Transportation Ministry(Secretariade Comunicacionesy Transporte- SCT). Its CEO has the
rank of State Undersecretary and reports directly to the Minister. Two Directors, one for
Institutional Coordination and the other for Special Studies, assist him. The rest of e-Mexico
staff i s composed of project coordinators and support personnel, who make a total salaried
workforce of 14people. The program's role i s to act as a coordinator or facilitator of all
initiatives that are linked to the development of the information society inMexico but it does not
aim at creating a new bureaucratic structure.

          The fundingof e-Mexico, currently at an accumulated figure about US$65M, i s secured
through budgetary allocations, which every year replenish the e-MCxico Trust Fund. The flexible
structure of the fund also allows e-Mexico to access resources from diverse overseas donors;
promotes integration of local, regional, state and federal government programs; and allows for
diverse stakeholders to work with the e-Mexico National System.

          Some advancede-government initiatives that are truly translating the plans and good
intentions into action can be summarized as follows:

          1. At the federal level, one example of G2B i s Compranet,the Mexican government's
procurement web site (http://www.comm-anet.gob.mx), Compranetwasdeveloped by the
Secretariade Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo (SECODAM),with the purpose of
simplifying, modernizing andproviding transparency to the processes of purchasing goods and
contracting services, leases and public works that are conductedby agencies and branches of the
federal public administration and the state governments. CompranetallowsMexicanbusinesses
to sell their products and services to government agencies online. Another G2B e-government
program at the federal level i s SARE - SistemadeApertura Rbpida de Empresas developedby
the ComisidnFederal de Mejora Regulatoria (COFEMER). Completing the procedures related
to the establishment of new businesses inMexico usually takes between 30-80 working days.
SARE enables firms to complete all federal procedures online inone day only. MSBs are granted
a three-month grace period during which, they can start with their business while they complete
all the required documentation.

          2. There are also G2B experiences inMexico at the state level. Puebla Digital (
www.uuebla.aob.mx) i s a web site providing a comprehensive set of services for Puebla's
citizens andbusinesses. Its focus, among other online services, i s on the facilitation of
import/export licenses and permits, favoring electronic transactions between the government and
business. Puebla Digital aims at reducing the highcosts of customer service inissues related to
foreign trade, such as import/export permits, rules of origin, temporary import status, and
directory of exporters. Another G2B state-level initiative, which i s directly addressed to MSBs i s
the CentrodeAtencidn Empresarial (CAE)inthe State of Mexico. This project i s the result of a
two-year work by the Secretariat of Economic Development, which through coordination with
other federal, state and municipal agencies and branches, simplified and streamlined the process
of company registration and licensing via Internet. CAE tackled serious problems such as the
lack of coordination between the various layers of government during the process of business
registration and licensing. The project was launched in2000 with a minimuminvestment in


                                                - 53 -

terms of hardware and other equipment and has been managedby a team of five professional
staff on the Secretariat's payroll. It has resulted inthe implementation of a simplified system
able to grant a business license in 8 hours to those MSBs that do not present any threat to the
public health and the environment. Furthermore, through a cooperative work between the
federal, state and municipal levels in consultative committees that meet every two weeks, those
MSBs that present health or environmental risks, and also bigger-sized businesses, can obtain
their permits and licenses in 15 days. As a result of this project, which for the moment counts
only on an electronic "front-office" solution, a total of 689 new firms have received their licenses
since inception, out of which 120 firms were licensed duringthe periodMarch-May 2002 (an
average of two firms per day). The State of Mexico i s currently expanding the system, located in
the capital city o f Toluca, to two other municipalities with technical assistance providedby the
Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM).

        3. At the municipal level, an interesting G2G initiative aimed at spreading innovation
and at reducing the gap betweenfederal and local advancements inthe e-government field i s
E-Municipio, proposed to the Mexican Government by Microsojl, Hewlett Packard and Oracle.
The aim of thisjoint proposal i s to develop local portals facilitating exchange of information and
interactions between municipalities and citizens. These companies have proposed to start
working in a few municipalities inthe States of Veracruz, Guanajuato, Queretaro, Mexico and
Nuevo Leon (El Universal, Computacion, Feb 4th, 2002). Up to now, E-Municipio has
developed two modules, namely Sistemade Administracidn y Recaudacidn Municipal (SRM),
which i s basically an ICT solution to improve budgeting and tax collection, and Sistemade
Administracidn, Operacidn y Andisis Policiaco (TEMZS),intended to help local police to combat
crime with ICT support. One example of good practice on e-government for MSBs already
exists inthe municipality of San Pedro Garza Garcia, State of Nuevo Leon. Among other online
services, it has established a number of virtual kiosks, within the framework of the program
Centros de VinculacidnEmpresarial, sponsored by the federal Secretaria de Economia. The
purpose of this initiative i s to reduce the digital divide between the technologically-advanced
firms established in one of the most affluent areas of Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, and the emerging
entrepreneurs, through a service aimed at providing support, information and training to MSBs.
Furthermore, another initiative, promoted by NAFZN, i s the Znfocentros project, which aims at the
establishment of Business Centers via Internet. These are virtual entities that operate through
chambers of commerce and business associations, serving MSBs invarious Mexican states and
municipalities. The project has developed a solution via Internet to manage supply chains
between suppliers o f goods and service providers. It also facilitates online processing of business
licenses and permits, and supports mechanisms that promote economic development inthe
region adopting chambers of commerce and business associations as the focal points. Finally, it
i s important to mention that the Bank recently utilized a PHRD grant to fund a pilot project in
Monterrey and Zacatecas, which constituted an exercise aimed at supporting the preparation of
this proposedproject. The consultancy conductedby the groups PISSMEcquaria andDeloitte
Consulting providedimportant inputs to understandbest practices developed in other countries
and the constraints and opportunities to register enterprises inMexico, andpresented a
framework to reengineer the registration process utilizing e-government as an innovative tool at
the municipal level.




                                                  - 54 -

        To summarize, the Mexican Government's vision and ongoing initiatives are coherent
with the objective of increasing transparency inpublic affairs andbetter serving citizens' needs.
The layer of the Government closest to the citizen i s the Municipality, and, to some extent,
especially for entrepreneurial endeavors, the State. Hence, the greatest effort to improve
effectiveness intranslating objectives into results i s to be dedicated to these two levels of
Govemment.

IncreasingMSB Access to ICT Infrastructure

        Mexico's GrowingDigital Divide. Since the early 1990s, Mexico liberalized and opened
its ICT market to competition. As a result, since 1995 more than $25 billion have been invested
inthe telecommunications sector alone, between 1991and2001 the number of telephones more
than doubled, in the year 2000 the number of mobile subscribers exceeded the number of fixed
line subscribers and the number of Internet user has also dramatically increased. Despite these
remarkable improvements, Mexico's ICT expenditures as a share of GDP is only 3.2 percent
substantially below Argentina's and Venezuela's 4 percent rate and i s less than half of Brazil's
8.3 percent, Chile's 8.1 percent and Korea's 7.4 percent. While Mexico's telephone penetration
levels increased from 6.4 per 100people in 1990 to 13.48 telephones per 100 people, it still lags
significantly behind Brazil and Chile which have, respectively telephone penetration levels of
21.69 and 23.9 per 100people. These indicators are even more remarkable considering that in
1990, Mexico's telephone penetration level was nearly identical to those of Brazil and Chile.
Telephone penetration levels are important indicators for e-business readiness since most MSBs
rely on telephone lines to access the Internet and other data networks.

        Not only has the "digital divide" grown between Mexico and other Latin American
countries, but also the "digital divide" within Mexico increased. Most of Mexico's telephone
lines are inthe Federal District, where the telephone penetration rate i s 31.5 per 100people,
compared to penetration levels of 4 telephones per 100 people in Oaxaca, 3.5 inChiapas and 5.4
inTabasco. In1990the difference intelephonepenetrationlevelbetweenMexicoCity and
Chiapas, for example, was approximately 17 percent, which has increasedto 31.5 percent in
2001. This "digital divide" within Mexico has increasedduringthe last decade because
investment has mainly focused on the more profitable areas in the largest urban centers and
because Mexicanbusiness and residential users pay among the highest rates for access ICT
networks. For example, the average cost of a "basket" of basic telecommunications for Mexican
business, according to a recent survey, i s $309 per month, compared to $206 inChile and $266
dollars in the United States. The cost of accessing highspeed networks (which i s critical to
e-business) i s even higher for Mexican MSBs. For example, the cost of installing a local loop
with the capacity of an E-1line for a MexicanM S B i s $19,000 nearly 20 times more than the
cost for an MSB inBrazil or Chile.

        Sub-componentObjectives and Design. The objective of this sub-component i s to
increase number of MSBs that access and use ICT infrastructure (either wireless or wireline)
usingeither dial-up or high-speednetworks for e-business by at least 10,000 within 3 years. To
accomplish this, the Project would carry out the following three principal activities:




                                                - 55 -

(I) Demandandbarriersstudy (estimated cost $800,000). A demandandbarriersstudy will
assess the needs and demand for ICT infrastructureby MexicanMSBs as well as the barriers and
challenges MSBsface interms of obtaining and maintaining ICT connectivity from the
perspective of MSBs as well as from the perspective of ICT infrastructure service providers.
This assessment will be based on detailed survey of MSBs to accurately determine the needs and
demand of MSBs for accessing ICT networks, including dial-up and higher-speed networks. The
demand study should provide a detailed description of expectations for services by MSBs in
urban areas, the potential demand and the ability-to-pay for new services by MSBs, and any
relevant economic, social, ethnic and/or cultural constraints. The study, for example, should take
into account different profile o f MSBs as well different types of services according to bandwidth
demand and costs. The assessmentmust also identify what are the mainbarriers, disincentives
andor bottlenecks that hinder private sector companies from providing ICT network services to
the targeted MSBs. The barriers, disincentives and bottlenecks can cover a wide range of areas,
including legal, regulatory, licensing, financial, tax, commercial, technical, engineering,
geographic cultural, ethnic, educational or other factors. The demand and barriers assessment
will examine issues related to MSB accessing ICTinfrastructure through single- or multi-purpose
telecenters/CCDs as well as MSBs obtaining enterprise/individual access to ICT infrastructure.
The assessment will also examine issues related to whether and how the ICT infrastructure needs
of MSBs may evolve or change as their business mature and ICT markets evolve (e.g. at first an
M S B may only needafford high-speed access via community CCDs, latter an M S B may needto
supplement this with dial-up access, followed by high-speed access at the M S B place of
business). This study should be of the quality, detail and format that would allow it to be
includedina "data room" that could be made available to prospective investors and others
interested inproviding infrastructure or services to the targeted communities. This study will, at
minimum,conduct two distinct studies, one aimed at the Central States andone at the Southern
States and will attempt to identify any differences that exist between these states due to ethnic,
economic and/or socio-cultural differences.

        This activity will be overseenby e-Mexico, inclose coordination with relevant work
groups within SCT that are also working on access and connectivity issues. The bulk of the work
will be done by a consultant firm(s) selected under Bank Guidelines. The methodology used will
be detailed surveys, focus groups and several information-gathering and consensus-building
meetings with key stakeholders will be held as part of this component - notably, private sector
providers, MSB organizations, and indigenous community organizations (especially inthe
Southern states). Between 2-10 information-gathering and consensus-building meetings will be
held with key stakeholders. A limitedsubset of meetings will have follow-up meetings. The
survey will also assess educational, income, ethnic, gender and language barriers that hinder use
of and access to ICT infrastructure and services.

(2)     Design oflncentives (estimated cost $600,000). A design of incentives activity will aim,
taking into account the finding of the demand andbarriers study as well as international best
practices, foster private sector companies to provide connectivity for MSBs in a pro-competition
and commercially-sustainable manner. The incentives will be applicable nationwide, though a
special focus will be given to also design incentives targeted to improve M S B connectivity in
Mexico's poorest regions. This activity will also identify a set of pilot projects to connect MSBs


                                                - 56 -

inMexico's poorest regions usingthe incentives that havebeendesigned. Itwill develop all
documents and instruments(biddingdocuments, recommended sites for pilot studies) that
e-Mexico and the GOM will needin order to launch the pilot projects described inthe next
component usingthe incentives designed.

         This activity will design incentives that are technology-neutral and aim to increase MSB
access to ICT networks though commercially-sustainable CDCs/telecenters as well as other
incentives to increase the number of MSBs that directly connect to high-speed ICT networks at
their place of business. The incentives developed will be applicable to all MSBs inMexico,
though some incentives will be tailored specifically to benefit some of the 51,200 MSBs that will
benefit from other activities of this project (Le. MSBs that access ICT infrastructure via the
CCDs and up to 48,000 MSBs targeted by this project). Some of the incentives developedwill
include OBA-based subsidies/mechanisms that will be used to launch the pilot projects described
inthe next sub-component. For example, the incentives developedmay includefunds that will
be allocated to MSBs through a OBAhoucher mechanism that can be usedby MSBs to pay for
the installation costs of obtaining high-speed connectivity. The OBAhoucher will be designed
to leverage and/or complement additional funds or contributions from GOMfidecomisos (such as
the e-Mexico fidecomiso); other federal, state or municipal programs and from the private sector.

         This sub-component will be implemented at the earliest possible date though it will be
completed after the first sub-component inorder to take into account the findings of the first
component. This sub-component will be implemented ina manner consistent with the guidelines
described inthe first component (Le. in terms of using a consultant, consensus-building
meetings, focus on Southern States).

(3)      Pilot Projects (estimated cost $5 million). This activity will provide funds to enable the
GOMto implement a limited number of pilot projects usingthe incentives that have been
designedby the previous component. The pilot projects will channel funds to MSBs or ICT
infrastructure providers via an OBA-subsidymechanism and/or other incentives aimed at
fostering private-sector innovation, competitiveness and provision of ICT infrastructure to urban
MSBs inMexico's poorest regions ina commercially sustainable and pro-competitive
framework. Cost estimates are basedupon a 50% temporary subsidy for hardware and
installation to enable an M S B to connect to a DSL/+ 128 Kbps line ($200), and 6 months of
service ($300). This period would give a chance for the MSBs to get up and runningwith their
e-business plan. The selection of participating MSBs would be determined by the adequacy of
e-business plans, including those associated with other Project components.

Increasing M S B Access to New Economy E-Gov Business Services

        Rationale. Governments have realized that informationand communications technology
(ICT) applications offer the potential to improve public effectiveness and efficiency and are thus
trying to reduce their gap with the business world by devising long-terme-government strategies,
which include creating their own web sites and sometimes offering online interactive services.
The impact on public sector management of ICTs ingeneral i s markedly felt intwo processes,
the first relating to the internal operations of governments, and the secondrelating to the


                                                  - 57 -

government's interface with the public.

         Business licensing and facilitation of procedures to constitute an enterprise are among the
most important areas where ICTs can benefit the relationship between governments and the
public. Box 3.3 shows an example of G2B good practice in the United States, interms of
facilitating business licensing. Another good international example inG2B business licensing
and registration i s Australia. The Australian Business License Znformation Service site
http://bli.net.au provides access to licensing requirements for business at all three levels of
government. At the local level, the website http://smartlicence.sd.qld.g;ov.au, of the Queensland
Department of State Development, provides direct access to their Smart License information. It
aims to provide a summary of State and Commonwealth Government licenses required for a
business, license application forms, and details of license fees, periods of cover, etc., and a listing
of all government support programs available to business. Detaileddownloadable packages are
available online.

        However, inLatin America, no government has yet created a comprehensive system that
electronically links all its agencies' activities and provides businesses and citizens with the
opportunity to receive and pay for public services online. A very few Latin American countries
have developed some ICT-solutions inthe government to business (G2B) area, mainly aimed at
facilitating online tax payments or online procurement for large companies, but there are no
readily known examples of comprehensive ICT-solutions that address the specific needs o f micro
and smallbusinesses (MSBs). Instead, many governments inLatinAmerica do have portals
providing information on government activities and services to businesses and citizens.

        Ina World Business Environment Survey conducted in2000, Mexicoledmajor Latin
American countries in the percentage of firms ranking business licensing regulations as a
moderate or major obstacle. Inaddition, according to a recent survey carried out byAccenture, a
consulting company specializing inthemes related to the new economy, Mexico i s behind most
advanced countries ine-government (Accenture, 2001). Of the 22 countries surveyed by
Accenture, Mexicoranked last interms of progress ine-government. According to the survey,
the five most advanced governments inelectronic matters are Canada, Singapore, the USA,
Norway and Australia. Besides Mexico, the only other LatinAmerican country surveyed inthe
analysis was Brazil, which ranked 18th. Accenture categorizes Mexico as a "Platform Builder"
country, where a complex political environment, recent changes inpolitical leadership, immature
infrastructure, geographically dispersedpopulations, and administrative inertia, have inhibited
the government's ability to make significant progress inthe electronic field.




                                                  - 58 -

Table 1- BusinessLicensing Regulation as a Major Obstacle

     Mexico

  Venezuela

     Bolivia

       Peru

      Brazil

  Colombia

  Argentina

      Chile

            0      20       40       60     80      100



           Component Objective. The objective of this component i s to provide Mexicanlocal
government entities (states and municipalities) with ICT-based solutions to help them improving
the investment and operating environment for MSB startup and operation. This will focus, at
least, on streamlining the registration, permit and operating licensing processes requestedto
MSBs by all layers of authority. Additionally, the component aims at favoring the development
of MSB value chains through the establishment of enterprise kiosks, which will facilitate the
tendering process inpublic and private procurement of goods and services.

           Component Scope. The scope of this component will be limitedto the relationship
between two layers of the Mexican Government (state and municipality) and businesses (G2B).
Inthe G2B area, the analysis will focus on the relationshipsbetweenpublic agencies andMSBs
(G2MSB). One reason for this focus i s that MSBs face more challenges and burdens than larger
enterprises indealing with government procedures. Another reason i s the need to ensure
consistency between this component and the other components of the project.

           The administrative framework that rules the granting of permits and licenses to
businesses inMCxico, inmost states and municipalities, i s usually obsolete and includes
procedures that are long and complicated. This allows corruption and abuse by government
officials. So, the revision and improvement of the processes of registration and licensing i s a key
component of any MSB and regional development strategy inMexico. Consequently, this
component's approach i s to support the establishment of efficient mechanisms able to improve
the current regulatory framework and its daily implementation, through the adoption of ICT as a
facilitating tool in the interaction between government and MSBs.

           ComponentDesign. This component will be demand-driven according to the interest and
commitment of states and municipalities to engage ininstitutionalreforms and development of
ICT solutions for government services to small business. DuringProject preparation, national
officials responsible for e-Mexico expressed strong interest. Indications at the state and local
level have also been very positive, as reflected ine-government programs already under
development in some areas of the country and interviews with local officials. The consultancy
contracted by the Bank found that, in some states (e.g. Nuevo Leon, Mexico, Puebla and
Veracruz), there are already ongoing e-government programs inplace, which are showing certain
degree of success but that could be significantly improved through the proposed Project.


                                                - 59 -

        Under the Project, responsible PMUstaff, to be contracted to support the current
structure of e-Mexico, will undertake and manage a process with interested state and local
authorities involving a consultation phase and implementation phase. Inthe first phase, a
G2MSB development plan will be prepared to establish the parameters, dimension and
implementation program, leading to the conclusion of subsidiaryagreements between NAFIN
and the government entity concerned, reflecting the program, rights and obligations of both
parties, and financing. Once complete, the second and thirdphases of this Project component
would finance consulting services, equipment, works and training activities to implement the
applicable process reengineering within the state and/or local government concerned and portal
services development. The project will basically consist of the following three main phases:

        (1)Phase I: Streamlining registration andlicensing of business, requires not only
counting on technically-skilled staff but,primarily,on the capacity to translate good ideas into
effective agreements that subsequently become regulations that are truly able of being enforced.
To achieve these goals, phase one would include the establishment of consultative committees
wherever they will be needed. These will be composed o f any combination of representatives of
federal branches, states, and municipalities in such areas as economic andurban development,
treasury, health and environment.
This consensus-buildingphase will culminate inthe signature of a letter of understanding
between the Project (e-Mexico) and the state and municipal government entities, which will
include the allocation of local funds to match the contribution made by the project to help
prepare the G2MSB development plan.

        (2) Phase 2: MSBs require from their authorities a number of services that can be
grouped under four categories: constitution, registration, operation, and continuous interaction
with the government. Under the SecondPhase of the project, government institutionaland
processes streamlining program, the project team will identify and review the procedures that the
government entity has inplace against an agreed set of good practice benchmarks, such as those
recommended the European Commission on improving and simplifying the business
environment for business start-upsand on the results of the pilot work conducted inpreparation
of this project by Pissa-Equaria and Deloitte Consulting. The project will analyze the services
provided to businesses by federal agencies and state/municipal governments, developing an
inventory of forms, flows, processes and requirements, together with a description of the
inter-relationships among agencies andbranches. Most of the steps depend on the type of
business and the environmentaUhealth hazards it poses as the main conditions for registration and
operation of the business, which are basedon the local plans for growth and land use. These are
commonly detailed inthe cadastral maps kept at the landregister. The analysis will also evaluate
how the use of computers and the Internet, or any other technological device can support the
proposedprocess re-design, and make sure that the ICT-based solutions suggested take into
account MSBs' familiarity with computers and the Internet. This work would incorporate
international best practices. It will reflect, as appropriate, the main steps that the governments
have undertaken to develop effective G2B services and the relevant lessons that can be applied to
the selected Mexican municipalities and states. Inrespect to operation of a business and its
continuous relationship with government, one important aspect i s government procurement as a



                                                  - 60 -

market opportunity for MSBs. InMexico, Compranetis moving towards an integrated
e-procurement system, involving all layers of government, although today primarilyoffers
opportunities with the federal biddingand direct contracting processes. The project will identify
adequate mechanisms to link state and municipal requirements with Compranet aiming at
enlarging the market opportunities for MSBs. The most likely tool to develop the
supply-demand chains will be the "Enterprise Kiosk" as it i s being developedby Znfocentros in
Mexico.

         (3) Phase 3: Lastly, ICTportals will be developed and put online for each participating
government entity. The portals will, for example, provide online information and interactive
tools (e.g., forms and documents) to facilitate MSBs' registration and licensing. The
informationon the portals should be easy to understand and the tools easy to use. The portals
would be designed taking into account that MSBs' owners have low literacy levels and very little
or no familiarity with computers and the Internet. The use of touch screens and any other
technical solutions that simplify MSBs' interactions with computers and the Internet would be
taken into careful consideration. Beta versions would be prepared and tested to help ensure
effective results.

         Expected Results. Ingeneral, the expected outputs of this component are (a)
re-engineering of processes inthe areas of registration, licensing and operating permits for micro
and small businesses inthe selected municipalities; (b) development of ICT-based solutions to
facilitate registration and procurement for Mexican MSBs,e.g., development of portals providing
information to MSBs and facilitatingtheir online registration and licensing together with easing
their access to markets through supply-demand chains through enterprise kiosks; and (c)
development and implementation of training courses for M S B owners interestedinimproving
their IT skills and learning about formalization, access to finance, procurement, etc., as well as
for government employees willing to learn about e-government solutions for MSBs.


         Implementation and Financing. The process described above will be managedby the
Project PMU, utilizing, to ensure good coordination with other ongoing E-Mexico initiatives, an
e-government working group. The group would be composed of representatives concernedfrom
the central government responsible for e-government inMexico. The total cost o f this
component i s estimated at US$41.0million. This includes $28.5 million for institutional and
process re-engineering; $5.5 millionfor software and content development, $5.0 million for
hardware, networking and works; and $2 million for marketing, promotion and institutional
strengthening. The detail i s as follows:




                                                -61 -

            MSB ICT Infrastructure& New Economy E-gov Component EstimatedCost -
                                                  Indica Share of   Bank-   Share of
                                                  tive    Total     Financi Bank
                                                  costs   Compon    ng      Component
                                                  (US$    -ent Cost (US$M) Financing
                                                  M)      (%)               (%)
 MSB ICT Infrastructure Access                    6.4               3.9    61


D Demandand barriers study                        0.8               0.8    100

,Design of incentives study                       0.6               0.6    100


mMSBinternetpilot projects                        5.0               2.5    50



Yew Economy E-gov business services               41.0              20.5   50

D Government Institutional and Process
Reengineering   - Consulting                      25.5              12.7   50
                             and process redesign;
SAP Analysis against pilot solution; changes'
levelopment; implementation; maintenance;
:hange management; project management


BSoftware and Content Development       -
hemet-oriented platform; Portal Server;           6.0               3.0    50
4pplication server; Database; Security;
Monitoring; collaborative platform; land register
ligitalization


BHardware, Networkingand Works Server  -
'or Applications; Web server; Database Server;    6.5               3.2    50

ietworking; telecommunications equipment and
:nternet connection; Federal Customer Services
:enter

)Marketing, Promotion and Institutional
strengthening                                     3.O               3.0    50


Total ComDonent Costs                             17.4    100%      24.4   ;1



           Estimated project costs are basedupon Project preparation and pilot work under the
 PHRDGrant, which utilize the following basic implementation model:

     0     Mexican municipalities were analyzedby size, capacity to reach cooperating agreements
           with the state, and level of development ine-government, resultingintwo groups: those
           that are candidates to implement the proposed solution and those were the project can


                                                      - 62 -

  only be replicated inthe future.
0 The project team, coordinated by a e-Mexico project manager, will be consultants
  specialized inbusiness analysis, systems analysis, systems architecture, and experts in
  quality control, each to implement the solution inthe target areas. Additionally, teams of
  about five consultants each should take care of the implementation of the system at the
  sub-project level. It i s estimated that the project resources, over a period of four years,
  will be enough to develop approximately 13 sub-projects inabout 13 states of Mexico.
0 A total of four months should be neededto implement the solution ineach of the target
  areas, while one month per location should be enough to replicate the system. The timing
  i s subject to the effective cooperation providedby the participating municipalities.
0 Software and hardware needs were determined according to licenses and equipment costs
  at international standards.




                                            - 63 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                   MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project



1.BuildMSB E-business development services markets                                                                                             0.00
(a) Promotion of E-business adoptation                                                             3.00                 2.00                   5.OO
(b) E-business learning & innovation program for firms                                                                                         0.00
    (i) assistanceandmanagementcontract
       Client                                                                                      1.20                 1.20                   2.40
    (ii) 1 matchinggrantfinancing
        Window                                                                                    16.20               16.00                   32.20
    (iii) 2 vouchergrantfinancing
          Window         --                                                                        1.70                 0.00                    1.70
(c) E-BDS business center innovation pilot                                                         1.40                 6.20                   7.60
(d) E-BDS youth start innovation pilot                                                             1.50                 0.20                    1.70
2. Increase ICT infrastructure & e-gov services access                                                                                         0.00
(a) Increase ICT infraestructure                                                                   5.80                 0.60                   6.40
(b) ImproveMSB investment & operating climate                                                     18.60               22.40                   41.00
3. Project Management Unit                                                                         2.20                 0.00                    2.20

Total Baseline Cost                                                                               51.60               48.60                 100.20
 Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                         0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                                                            0.00
                                         Total Proiect Cost;                                      51.60       I       48.60                 100.20
                                                                Front-endfee                                            0.60                    0.60
                                  Total Financing Required                                        51.60       II      49.20                 100.80




Goods                                                                                                7.30                   9.60                   16.90
Works                                                                                                0.80                   0.00                     0.80
Services                                                                                           37.40                  37.80                    75.20
Training                                                                                             6.10                    1.20                    7.30
                                                         Total Proiect Costs1                      51.60                  48.60                  100.20
                                                                    Front-endfee          I                                 0.60      I              0.60



   1
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 100.8 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 57.94%
  of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                   - 64 -

                                             Annex 4
       MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project

                            Years EndingDecember 31




1/Includesmatchingcontributionsby participatingMSB to credit program,ELIPandE-BDSprograms.
2/ Includescontributions to the investmentandoperatingclimateprogram.




                                                - 65 -

               Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project
                     Not Applicable




                           - 66 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                  MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project

    Procurement

A. Procurement Arrangements

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",publishedinJanuary 1995 (revised JanuaryIAugust
1996, September 1997 (revised in September 1999, and May 2002), and the provisions stipulatedinthe
Loan Agreement.

Procurement Methods

The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized inTable A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.

Procurement of Works

The Bank will not be financing works under the Project.

Procurement of Goods

Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, computer equipment, promotional materials and
office equipment totalingUS$16.9 millionequivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will
be grouped into biddingpackages of more than $500,000equivalent and procured following International
Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures, usingBank-issued Standard BiddingDocuments. Contracts with
estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$6.9 million may be
procured usingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures and standard biddingdocuments agreed
with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger biddingpackages and estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million, may be procured
usingshopping (Nationafiternational) procedures based on a modelrequest for quotations satisfactory to
the Bank. Goods purchased under the E-business learning and innovationprogrammatching grants window
may be purchased under commercial practices.

Selection of Consultants, Training, InformationServices and Auditing

Consulting, training, information and auditing services would be contracted under the Project in the
following areas of expertise: micro and small business financial services, micro and small business
development services, information technology, and streamlining government administration through electric
services. These services are estimated to cost US$63.4 million equivalent and would be procuredusing
Bank Standard Request for Proposals.

Firms:

All contracts for firms inexcess of $100,000 would be procuredusingQCBS. Contracts for firms below
$100,000 would be procured least cost evaluation, except contracts under the E-business Learningand
Innovation Programwhich would be procured under commercial practices estimated to cost a maximum of
US$30,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of US$38.9 million equivalent. Contracting



                                                     - 67 -

responsibility would be undertaken by beneficiary MSBs following receipt of non-objection to a firm's
e-business Plan by the ELIPclient assistance and management contractor. The bulk of the contracts
financed by this Programare expected to be for training and advisory services providedby consulting finns,
training institutes and NGOs to the beneficiaries of the grants.  Since beneficiaries (grant recipients) will be
from the private sector and beneficiaries will co-finance the services themselves, procurement of these
services from firms and NGOs may follow commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. Selection of
services of the Project's Client Assistance and Management Contractor will be by QCBS in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Consulting services under $15,000 purchased for the Youth Pilot may be purchased under
commercial practices.

Individuals:

Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hiredin accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.4 million.

Prior review threshold

The proposed threshold for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessmentof the project
implementing unit and are summarized inTable B. In addition to this prior review of individual
procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PMUOperating Costs will be reviewedand approvedby
the Bank annually.

Operational Costs

The project would finance the incremental operating costs of travel, training, roomand per diem,
communications, supplies, office rental and utilities associated with the operation of the Project
Coordination Unit.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacitv to implement procurement

An assessmentof the capacity of NAFIN,acting as financialagent to E-Mexico, to implement procurement
actions for the project has been carried out and was approvedby the Regional Procurement Advisor on May
12, 2002. The assessmentreviewed the organizational structure of the proposed PMU, its staffing,
operations and procurement experience.

Organizationand Staffing. NAFINwouldbe responsiblefor ensuring that procurement is carried out in
accordance with the Banks Guidelines for Procurement, Specially, it would be responsibleunder
E-Mexico's direction for: (i) preparing tender documents, (ii) for bids, (iii)
                                                               calling              evaluating and comparing
bids and consultants qualifications, (iv) awarding contracts, (v) signing the contracts, and (vi) maintaining
all the correspondingrecords. NAFIN's Unidad de Financiamiento Especial (UFE)i s specializedin
handling procurement for projects financed b the Bank and IDB. It has significant experience with the
implementation of the Bank Projects and a good recordof satisfactory performance. The Unithas also
benefited from consultation with other well-run Bank financed project management units inMexico. This
staff would provide consistent support and oversight of the process in collaboration with technical staff of
E-Mexico. The Project would include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be usedfor each procurement methods, as well as model contracts for works and goods
procured on this basis of three quotations or shopping.




                                                       - 68 -

Procurement Environment and Professional Experience in Procurement. The UFEhas worked in the
area of procurement as a quality assurance institutionfor the Mexican Government. Duringdiscussions of
this Assessment, it was confirmed that present authorities and staff have a strong will for ethicalbehavior
and have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and transparency in all activities.
Inaddition, to increase transparency, all procurement includingcomplaints and their resolutions will be
available to the public through internet (COMPRANET).

Record-keepingand Filing System. NAFIN'srecord-keeping systemof all procurement documentation i s
very well organized. It has been agreed that NAFINwill maintain the same systemfor the proposed project.
The LegalDocuments will require that audit reports be submitted annually to the Bank, andinclude the
review of the record-keepingsystem.

Overall Risk Assessment. The overall risk assessmenti s considered to be average. The risk assessmenti s
low for the following sections: (i) aspects, (ii) cycle management, and (iii)
                                    legal            project                              recordkeeping.
The risk levelhas been determinedto be average for the following sections of the assessment: (i)
organization and functions (pending completion of the project operational manual), (ii) and control
                                                                                         support
system, (iii)general procurement environment, and (iv) private sector assessment.

Reporting Requirementsfor Financial Management. The format and contents of the FinancialMonitoring
Reports (FMR) was agreed before negotiations. The F M R s will be prepared based on the Financial
Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrower (World Bank, datedNovember 30, 2001). The project will not
be eligible for FMR based disbursements.

Action Plan. The following were agreed at loan negotiations:

     a. NAFINwill act as financial agent under this Loan;
    b. NAFINwill prepare as a condition of loan effectiveness a Project Operations Manual specifying
        procedures and requirements on, among other areas, procurement, contracting of consultants,
        contract monitoringand controls, and accounting-financial procedures. The Project Operational
        Manual should include procedures and requirements on (i)    project accounting system, (ii) internal
        controls, (iii)
                      planning, (iv) budgeting and financial reporting system, including format and contents
        of the FMR (to be submitted quarterly), and (v) auditing; and
    c. B y Loan Effectiveness, NAFINwill also hire both the procurement consultant and the financial
        management expert and help E-Mexico to organize a Project Launch Seminar in each initial
        participating region.

C. Procurement Plan

The Government has developed an indicative plan for the four-year period of project implementation which
provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods in Table A. A Procurement Plan
has been prepared for he first year of project implementation and has been found satisfactory. Subsequent
plans will be submittedyearly as part of the Annual Action Plan. The Bank Implementation Unit in Mexico
will performtwo post-reviews per year.




                                                      - 69 -

                                               Procurement Plan

                                                                              [nvite         Award    Implementation
                                                                              Proposals/     Contract
                                     million)       Method                    Bids
                                                                  InteresVAd.

   Services
    Markets
   ELIPmanagement contract                2.9     I QCBS         I1/04        2/04           4/04     5104-12/01
                                                                              4/04           5/04     6104-6/06
   MicroNet computer & office                                                 4/04           5/04     6104-6/06
   eauioment                        I     0.5     I ICB 3/04     I
     1 1
   MicroNet advisory services             0.3       QCBS          3/04        4/04           5/04     6104-6/06
   MicroNet staff training program        0.1      QCBS           3/04        4/04           5/04     6/04-6106
   Youth sub-component -                  0.4       QCBS          11/03       01/04          02/04    04/04
   managementcontract
   Youth Component Materials Design       0.05      NCB           11/03       01/04          02/04    04/04


   MSB ICT infrastructure access &
   new economy e-gov services
   Institutional & process                0.7       QCBS          3/04        4/04           5/04     6/04-6/01
   re-engineering
   Software & content development         0.3       QCBS          6/04        1/04           8/04     6/04-6/06
                                                                                                      .. _..
   Training                               0.2       OCBS          8/04        9/04           10104    6/04-6/06

   Project Management Unit
   Project Manager                        TBD       Commercial    11/03       01/04          01104    Annual renewal
                                                    practices                                         basedon
                                                                                                      performance
   PCUBusiness Development                TBD       Commercial    11/03       01/04          01/04    Annual renewal
   Services                                         practices                                         basedon
                                                                                                      performance
   PCU Youth Placement Specialist         TBD      Commercial     10103        11/03         11/03    Annual renewal
                                                   practices                                          basedon
                                                                                                      performance
   PCU Business Climate Specialist        TBD       Commercial    10103        11/03         11/03    Annual renewal
                                                    practices                                         basedon




D.Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervision to be carriedout fromBank offices, it is recommended that one
full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out a postreview of procurement actions six months after
Project initiation and yearly thereafter. Based on the overall risk assessment (Average) the post-review field
analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1in 5 contracts signed.

E.Disbursement

The closing date for loan disbursement wouldbe June 30, 2008. The loanproceeds would be disbursed
against the categories shown inAnnex 5 Table C. Given the interest of Project clients to avoid a hiatus



                                                          - 70 -

between the design and delivery stages, retroactive financing of up to 10% of the loan amount ($5.6 million)
i s proposed for expenditures incurred not earlier than 12months prior to loan signing. Disbursement
requests will be based on certified Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), except for the first two contracts for
goods above $100,000 and for payments under NCB goods above $150,000 and contracts above $100,000
equivalent for consultant firms and $50,000 for individual consultants. Documentationfor SOEs would be
retained by NAFINand available for review of the Bank and external auditors.

The Bank loan would be disbursedagainst (a) for works, 100% of foreign expenditures and 83% of local
expenditures, (b) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures and 83% of local expenditures, (c) for services,
100% of foreign expenditures and 83% of local expenditures, and (d) for the ELP, 100%of amounts
disbursed, which would amount to 50% of total expenditures for matching grant subprojects, and a
maximum of 80% of total expenditures for voucher subprojects.

A special account wouldbe openedinthe central bank in an amount equivalent to $4.0million. Initially the
authorized allocation would be limited to US$2.0 million until full allocation could be claimed when
disbursements reach US$8.0 million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least monthly or
when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
application must include reconciledbank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.




                                                       -71 -

 Procurementmethods (Table A)


                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)




                                                                                                      0.00           0.80
Facilities Upgrading                         (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                                      7.50                 6.90               2.50            0.00           16.90
Office equipment, IT & Materials             (3.70)               (4.40)             (0.501           (0.00)        (8.60)
3. Services                                   2.40                                   38.80            0.00          41.20
Technical Consulting & Advisory              (2.40)                  0              (26.60)           (0.00)        (29.00)
services
ELlP management contract
Training programs, study tours &
other travel
Information & dissemination
services
4. Miscellaneous                              0.00                 0.00              38.90             0.10          39.00
E-business Learning &                        (0.00)               (0.00)            (20.00)           (0.00)        (20.00)
Innovation Program
-Matching Grants
-Voucher grant subprojects

5. Front-endfee                               0.00                 0.00               0.60             0.00          0.60
                                             (0.001               (0.00)             (0.60)           (0.00)         (0.60)
6. Project Coordination Unit                  0.00                 0.00               0.20             0.00           0.20
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.20)           (0.00)         (0.20)
    Total                                     9.90                 7.50              81.20             0.10          98.70
                                             (6.10)                (4.40)           (47.90)           (0.00)        (58-40)
  `/Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
    Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, training, technical
    assistanceservices, and incrementaloperating costs related to relending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 72 -

                        Table A1: ConsultantSelectionArrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)




A. Firms                    22.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    38.90     0.00      60.90
                            (15.50)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)  (20.00)    (0.00)   (35.50)
B. Individuals               0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    7.40      0.00      7.40
                            (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (3.60)   (0.00)    (3.60)
                    Total 1 22.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    46.30     0.00      68.30
                            (15.50)I  (0.00) I (0.00)  I (0.00)  I  (0.00) I(23.60) I (0.00)  I (39.10) I
1\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
                 QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                 SFB = Selectionunder a Fixed Budget
                 LCS= Least-CostSelection
                 CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants'Qualifications
                 Other = Selectionof individualconsultants (per SectionV of ConsultantsGuidelines),Commercial
                 Practices,etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                 - 73 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)



                   Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




I"  Works                      I                              I                            I
                                            >500
~2. Goods
                                          100-500                                                  First2 contracts
                                            <loo                       Shopping                     Post Review
 3. Services                                >loo
 Firms                                      <loo                       Least cost                       All
                                    Parts B3, B4 and D            Commercial Practices               TORSonly

 Individuals                                >50
                               I          >20<50                  Section V Guidelines                  All
                                            <20                   Section V Guidelines               TORSonly
                                                                  Section V Guidelines     I        Post Review
 4. Miscellaneous
 5. Miscellaneous
 6. Miscellaneous

                  Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 49.4
                             Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
      Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:                One every 12months
                                                                            (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                            for post-review/audits)


 1\Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to Implement
  Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                        - 74 -

                 Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements
                     MEXICO: E-Businessfor Small Business Development Project

    Financial Management
     1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment
FollowingWorld Bank's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed
NAFIN'sfinancial management systemrelating to the Project. The review was focused on the assessment of
the internal control, planning, budgeting, accounting and financial reporting system, and audit arrangements.
Details can be found inthe FinancialManagement Assessment Report dated April 18, 2002.

It was concludedthat, while NAFINdoes have a systemsatisfying the Bank's financial basic management
requirements for project accounting, the specific accounts for the Project have not as yet been setup and need
to be prior to Project startup. NAFINcurrently utilizes a computerized accounting system, in which the
financial transactions of the Project will be recorded. The M I S "Virtual" will be designedadjusted for the
new project operations. An identified and separated filing system will be maintained for project documents,
memos, receipts, vouchers and so on. NAFINwill receive support from the accounting & budgeting
department and from the accounts payable and treasury areas as well. The accounting arrangements are
acceptable to the Bank. The system produces usefulmanagement reports and will be able to produce Bank
informationon project's operations. The operations of proposed project will be recorded following cash
basis for an accounting system under the InternationalAccounting Standards (issued by the IASC and
adopted for he cash basis) which are acceptable to the Bank. NAFINwould ensure that records, accounts and
supporting informationare available for review by World Bank supervision missions and to the auditors as
required.

Financial Management System and Reporting. E-Mexico and NAFIN, includingits Direcci6n de
Organismos Internacionales, have been responsible for project preparation and have developed significant
project management capacity with previous and ongoing projects (and other relatedprograms). NAFIN
meets Bank financial management minimumrequirements, as it has an adequate structure for internal control,
financial reporting, procedures for budgetcontrol and an M I S which supports accounting processes and
transactions. The existing M I S i s operational but it can not provide,with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely informationon the status of the project (Financial Monitoring Reports or Reportes Financieros de
Monitoreo) as requiredby the Bank. NAFINwould adjust its existing systems to produce FMR for project
management. The accounting policies and system, internal control and IT of the PMUare in constant
evaluationbecauseNAFINas financial agency for Bank Projects i s one of the entities most visited by Bank
appraisal and supervision missions.

Organisation/Staffing. A Financial Specialist will be appointed within NAFINwith highqualifications who
will be responsible for the financial administrative aspects of the project such as ensuring that the
Operational Manuali s followed, monitoring financial transactions, reporting and so on. This Financial
Specialist will coordinate its activities with qualified staff incharge of procurement, internal auditing,
accounting, etc

     2. Audit Arrangements
Audit Coverageand Quality. NAFINis audited on annual basis. This review is carried out by a private firm
of auditors designated by SECODAM. The internalaudit department of NAFINcarry out permanent internal
audits for internal controls strengthening. Audited financial statements and corresponding reports and
opinions, mustbe submitted by the external auditor to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year. The Terms of Reference for this annual audits are those prepared by SECODAM based on the
"Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financingby the World Bank inthe Latin


                                                          - 75 -

America and the Caribbean Region" --May 1999-. The TOR are annually reviewedby the Bank to ensure
compliance with Bank requirements. Finally, those TOR are compatible with the InternationalAuditing
Standards issuedby IFAC. The audit reports submittedto the Bank on previous year's operations, were
categorized as "Unqualified", it i s the auditor provided a clean opinion on the NAFIN'sinternal controls,
transactions, procedures, operations, bank accounts, financial statements and so on of both the Project and
the Entity.

Auditors are pre- designated for the new project because the firm selected for NAFINwith high
qualifications that i s incharge of all NAFIN's projects, programs and so on. Furthermore, the audit review of
the E-Business for Small Business Development Project will be carried out in line with the existing M O U
and these audits will include all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals fromboth the Loan Account
and the Special Account were made.

    3. DisbursementArrangements
Flow offunds. NAFINunder E-Mexico's direction will be formally responsible for all day-to-day
administration once the project begins. Loan disbursements will be made to the Special Account. Requests
for use of funds out of the Special Account will be processed by NAFIN. Duringthe initial period of project
implementation, disbursements from the Loan account will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOE) and NAFlN will not migrate to a FMR-based disbursement procedure untilan agreement between
SHCP, E-Mexico NAFIN,SECODAM and the Bank. Details of the project financial management will be
included in the Project Operational Manual.
     Allocation of loan proceeds(Table C)

                                        Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds


    I                                              I                       I                 NIA                I




    E-business Learning & Innovation




     5. PCUIncremental Operating Costs 3/                    0.20                  83%local, 100%Foreign

     Total Project Costs with Bank Financing                57.82
    I                              Front-end fee   I         0.58          I             Amount due             I
     Total                                                  58.40

   1/ Eligible expenditures include information services, training, travel, demonstration equipment,
   technical advisory servicesfees and website development insofar as they contribute directly to the
   approved program. Salaries, other recurrent costs (such as office rental or advertising) and capital
   goods, among others, are not eligible.
   2/ While the voucher value would befixed and covered 100%by the Bank loan, the value at which it
   would befixed will not exceed 80% of the estimated value of the eligible business development service.
   3/ Includes the incremental operating costs of travel, training, room and per diem, communications,
   supplies, office rental and utilities associated with the operation of the Project Coordination Unit.


   Special account:
A special account would be opened inthe central bank in an amount equivalent to $4.0 million. Initially the
authorized allocation would be limited to US$2.0 million untilfull allocation could be claimed when
disbursements reach US$S.O million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least monthly or
when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
application must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.




                                                       - 77 -

                                Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                MEXICO: E-Businessfor Small Business Development Project




1I Negotiations
  Appraisal mission departure                  II        06/24/2002                      05/28/2002
                                                         05/07/2003             II       05/14/2003    II
   Planned Date of Effectiveness                         10/01/2003

Prepared by:
Nacional Financiera


Preparationassistance:
PHEW Grant


          Name                                          Speciality
  James Hanna                           Task Manager & Specialist inmicrobusiness services
  MikeGoldberg                          Specialist in microbusiness & microfinance, LCSFP staff
  Marialisa Motta                       Specialist in microbusiness & e-govemment, LCSFP staff
  Susana Sanchez                        Specialist in microbusiness regulation, LCSFP staff
  Robert Stephens                       InformationTechnology Specialist
  Lily Franchini                        ProgramAssistant, LCSFP staff
   Tanya Carrasco                       Social Development Specialist (consultant)
   Victor Ordonez                       Specialist in FinancialManagement, LCR staff
   Susan Goldmark                       Sector Manager




                                                 - 78 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
              MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project


A. Project implementation Pian
"Urban Micro and Small Business Implementation Plan", April 2002.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Re-designing Mexican Municipalities' Registration and Procurement Services for Micro and
Small Businesses" - Inputto the PHRD Grant TF026467: "E-Government Solutions for Mexican
Micro and Small Businesses: A Pilot Study" - Demand Study, Deloitte Consulting, Mexico DF,
2002.

TheBusinessEnvironment in Mexico -Resultsfrom a Private Sector Survey, GeetaBatra and
Andrew Stone, Business Environment Unit, PSAS, The World Bank, 2000.

Youth Start - "Project assessment, policies and design", Roberto Flores-Lima, Mexico City,
February 2001.

C. Other
Mexico Urban Development: A contribution to a National Urban Strategy, Finance, Private
Sector and Infrastructure Management Unit, LCR, The World Bank, November 9, 2001

Micro, Small and MediumScale Enterprise Policy Note, from Mexico: A comprehensive
Development Agendafor the New Era, The World Bank, October 2000.

"Programa de Desarrollo Empresarial2001 - 2006 Por El Desarrollo de la Competitividad de las
Empresas" Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, Noviembre, 2001

Definition of a Permanent System to Determine the Priority Needs of MSMEs in Mexico (Final
Report), Nexus Associates, Inc. ,June 1, 1999.

Think Globally, Act Locally: Decentralized Incentive Framework for Mexico's Private Sector
Development, LCSFP, The World Bank, May 2,2001

The Business Environment in Mexico -Resultsfrom a Private Sector Survey, Geeta Batra and
Andrew Stone, Business Environment Unit,PSAS, The World Bank, 2000.

"Small and Medium Scale Enterprises: A Framework for Intervention", by Kristin Hallberg, The
World Bank, May 1999.

"Direct Support to Private Firms:Evidence on Effectiveness", by Geeta Batra and Syed
Mahmood, The World Bank, December 20,2001.

*Including electronic files



                                              - 79 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                          MEXICO: E-Businessfor Small Business Development Project
                                                                 16-Am-2003
                                                                                                                            Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                         iBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO60686     2003 MX Municipai Dev in Rural Areas                   400.00       0.00                   0 00    0 00   400.00       100.00      0.00
PO59161     2003 GEF MX-Climate Measures in Transport                0.00       0 00                   5 80    0 00      6 00        0 80      0 00
PO70108     2003 MX Savings & Credit Sector Strengthening           64.60       0 00                   0 00    0 00    63 95         1 85      0 00
P074539     2003 MX Programmatic EnvSAL                            202.02       0 00                   0 00    0 00   10101        98 99       0 00
PO57531     2002 MX Basic Ed. APL II                               300.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00   201 50         6 50      0 00
PO60577     2002 MX Southeast Reg'l Development LIL                  5.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00      4 39        0 54      0 00
P065988     2002 GEF MX Consolidat.Prot Areas (SINAP II)             0.00       0 00                  16 10    0 00      6 92        9 55      0 00
P077602     2002 MX Tax Admin Institutional Development             52.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00    51 48        -0 52      0 00
PO60908     2001 GEF MX-MESOAMERICAN CORRIDOR                        0.00       0 00                  14 84    0 00    1466          4 85      0 00
PO63463     2001 METHANECAPTURE & USE AT A LANDFILL                  0.00       0 00                   6 27    0 00      1 38        4 33      3 01
PO64887     2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT (ERL)                         404.05       0 00                   0 00  200 00   18595        13690       0 00
PO65779     2001 MX FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJ               216.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00   120 58       40 58       0 00
PO66321     2001 MX: 111 BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT                 350.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00   333 27       -16 73      0 00
P066674     2001 GEF MX-lndigenous&Community Biodiversity            0.00       0 00                   7 50    0 00      6 68        3 65      0 00
PO71323     2001 MX Bank Restructuring Facility II                 505.06       0 00                   0 00    0 00    175 01      17501       0 00
PO66938     2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                     3.07       0 00                   0 00    0 00      2 60        2 29      0 72
P057530     2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARIi (APL)                          55.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00    35 31         3 81      0 00
PO60718     2000 GEF MX ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                           0.00       0 00                   8 90    0 00      6 44        8 49      0 00
P048505     1999 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                              444.45       0 00                   0 00    0 00    66 11        38 65      -9 22
PO07610     1999 MX FOVl RESTRUCTURING                             505.50       0 00                   0 00    0 00   312 00       312 00      0 00
PO44531     1998 MX KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                             300.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00    17281       12031       0 00
PO49895     1998 MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                            180.20      0 00                   0 00    0 00    11369        88 46       0 00
PO07711     1998 MX RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA (APL)                      47.00       0 00                   0 00    0 00    27 36        26 37       0 00
P007700     1997 COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                  15.00      0 00                   0 00    0 00      5 18        5 18       0 00
PO07713     1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                               186.50      0 00                   0 00    40 00   63 07       10307        3 98
PO34490     1995 MX TECHNICAL EDUCnRAiNlNG                         265.00       0 00                   0 00    83 69   22 45       106 14     76 11
PO07710     1994 N. BORDER I ENViRONM                               368.00      0 00                   0 00   328 00     7 29      335 29     61 89
PO07648     1993 MX MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                           200.00       0 00                   0 00    65 50   28 29        93 79     70 79

                                                          Total:  507045        0 00                59 41    71719    253537      181013     20727




                                                                     - 80 -

                                               MEXICO
                                         STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            Jun 30 - 2002
                                          InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                          Committed                  Disbursed
                                                        IFC                        IFC
FY Approval       Company                          Loan  Equity Quasi  Partic Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1988191192193195  Apasco                           10.80   0.00  0.00  43.20  10.80  0.00    0.00  43.20
1998              Ayvi                              8.57   0.00  0.00   0.00   8.57  0.00    0.00  0.00
1990192196        BANAMEX                          46.19   0.00  0.00   0.00  46.19  0.00    0.00  0.00
0                 BBVA-Bancomer                    51.76   0.00  0.00   0.00  51.76  0.00    0.00  0.00
1995199           BaringMexFnd                      0.00   2.73  0.00   0.00   0.00  2.33    0.00  0.00
1998              CIMA Mexico                       0.00   4.80  0.00   0.00   0.00  4.80    0.00  0.00
1998              CIMA Puebla                       6.75   0.00  0.00   0.00   3.25  0.00    0.00   0.00
1994              CTAPV                             2.59   0.00  1.48   0.00   2.59  0.00    1.48   0.00
1997              Chiapas-Propalma                  0.00   1.02  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.89    0.00   0.00
1997              Comercializadora                  2.19   0.00  1.56   3.75   2.19  0.00    1.56   3.75
2001              Compartamos                       1.oo   0.66  0.00   0.00   1.00  0.66    0.00   0.00
2002              Coppel                           30.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  30.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1999              Corsa                            11.14   3.00  0.00   0.00  11.14  3.00    0.00   0.00
2001              Ecomex                            5.00   0.00  1.50   0.00   3.00  0.00    1.50   0.00
2000              Educacion                         6.50   0.00  0.00   0.00   4.90  0.00    0.00   0.00
1997              FondoChiapas                      0.00   4.18  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.54    0.00   0.00
1998              ForjaMonterrey                   11.14   3.00  0.00  11.14  11.14   3.OO   0.00  11.14
1991196           GIBSA                            16.23   0.00  0.00  54.57  16.23  0.00    0.00  54.57
1993              GIDESA                            1.25   0.00  0.00   0.00   1.25  0.00    0.00   0.00
1996100           GIRSA                            45.00   0.00  0.00  60.00  45.00  0.00    0.00  60.00
1993              GOTM                              0.33   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.33  0.00    0.00   0.00
                  GrupoBBVA                         0.00   2.67  0.00   0.00   0.00  2.67    0.00   0.00
0                 GrupoCalidra                     10.00   6.00  0.00   7.50  10.00  6.00    0.00   7.50
1998              GrupoFEMSA                        0.00   2.85  0.00   0.00   0.00  2.85    0.00   0.00
                  GrupoMinsa                       12.00   0.00  0.00  18.00  12.00  0.00    0.00  18.00
1989              Grupo Posadas                    25.00   0.00  10.00  0.00  25.00  0.00    10.00  0.00
1997              Grupo Sanfandila                  7.53   0.00  0.00   3.20   6.20  0.00    0.00   2.53
1992193l95196199  HospitalABC                      30.00   0.00  0.00  14.00   5.29  0.00    0.00   3.71
1998              ITR                              14.00   0.00  0.00   4.00  14.00  0.00    0.00   4.00
2000              Innopack                          0.00  15.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   0.00   0.00
2000              Interceramic                      0.00   0.00  2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00
2000              InverCap                          0.00   0.07  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.06   0.00   0.00
1994              MeridaI11                        29.17   0.00  0.00  70.35  29.17   0.00   0.00  70.35
2000101           Mexplus Puertos                   0.00   1.41  0.00   0.00   0.00   1.41   0.00   0.00
1998              NEMAK                             0.00   0.00   1.51  0.00   0.00   0.00    1.51  0.00
1995199           PanAmerican                       0.00   9.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   9.00   0.00   0.00
1996199100101     Plata                            10.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2000              PuertasFinas                     13.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2001              Qualita                           3.50   2.50  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002              Rio Bravo                        50.00   0.00  0.00  59.50  50.00   0.00   0.00  59.50
2002              Saltillo S.A.                    34.50   0.00  0.00  41.95  34.50   0.00   0.00  41.95
2000              Servicios                        10.50   1.90  0.00  10.00  10.50   1.90   0.00  10.00
2000              Su Casita                         1.88  10.62  0.00   0.00   1.88  10.62   0.00   0.00
2000              TMA                               2.35   0.00  2.60   8.14   2.35   0.00   2.60   8.14
2001
1997
                         Total Portfolio:        514.15   96.71  20.65 409.30 454.51 80.40   20.65 398.34




                                                  -81  -

                                            ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                     Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001          GFNorte-CL                 100.00      0.00     0.00    100.00
2002           La Bene                     5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1992          BANAMEX-RISK MGT            40.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1993          GOTM                         0.50      0.00     0.00     0.00
1993          APASCO (IV)                  1.43      0.00     0.00     0.00
1996          GRLJF'O POSADASIV            3.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1998          CimaHermosillo               7.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1999          BANAMEX LRFI1               50.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1999          GrupoPosadas V                1.40     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          Educacion                    3.20      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          PanAme-LaColora              0.00      0.00     1.20     0.00
2001          BBVA-BancomerCL            100.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          Ecomex                       3.50      0.00     0.00     0.00

              TotalPendingCommitment:    315.03      0.00     1.20    100.00




                                       - 82 -

                                                      Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                      MEXICO: E-Business for Small Business Development Project
                                                                                      Latin     Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                 Amerlca      mlddle-
                                                                    Mexico        & Carib.     income           Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                          99 4            524         504                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita(Atlas method, US5)                                     5,540          3,560       4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US5billions)                                       550 3           1,862      2,248

Average annual growth, 199541                                                                                                           T
PopulationPA)                                                            1 4            1 5         1 3
Laborforce ("A)                                                          2 4            2 2         1 8         GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                                per                                        primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year avallable, 199541)                                                            capita                                  nrollment
Poverty("A ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                                    74             76           77
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          73             70           71                                 I
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                                     29             29           24
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                                    8              9           9                Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source ("A ofpopulation)                      86             85           87
Illiteracy("A ofpopulationage 15+)                                         8            11           10
Gross primaryenrollment ("A of school-agepopulabonj                     114            130         127                -   **Mexico
    Male                                                                114            131         128                       Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                              113            128         126

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1981        1991           2000        2001
                                                                                                                 Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                         306 4      3145           580 1       617 8
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                               27 4       23 3           23 5         20 7
Exports of goods and servicedGDP                            104        164            31 1         27 6                               Trade
Grossdomestic savings/GDP                                   24 8       20 4           21 5         184
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                    21 9       186            20 2         177                                   T
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                   -5 3       -4 7           -3 1        -2 9
InterestpaymentdGDP                                          2 0         2 0            2 0         1 8          Domestic                              Investment
TotaldebffGDP                                               25 5       36 3           25 9         25 0          savings

Totaldebt service/exports                                   47 5       23 6            302         20 4
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                               27 1
Presentvalue of debffewoits                                                            81 4
                                                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                           1981-91 199141              2000           2001     200145           I
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                             1 3           3 1        6 6           -03                           -----* Mexico
GDP per capita                                 -0 8           1 5        5 1           -1 8         2 4                        Umer-middle-incomeorow             I
Exports of gooas ana serv ces                   6 0          143        164            -5 1         5 4                                                           I
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                           1981        1991           2000        2001           Growth of investmentandGDP(%)
("7 of GDPj
Agriculture                                                   9.0        7.5            4.1         4.4          40 T

Industry                                                    33.2       28.0            27.9        26.8
   Manufacturing                                            21.9       20.6            20.4        19.4
Services                                                    57.9       64.4            68.0        68.9

Privateconsumption                                          64.4       70.5            67.4        70.1         -40
Generalgovernment consumption                                10.8        9.1           11.1        11.6
Imports of goods and services                                12.9       19.3           33.0        30.0                            `"=GDi       -GDP

                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                        1981-91 199141                2000        2001
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                          Growthof exports and Imports("A)

Agriculture                                                   0.7        1.7            0.6          1.9
Industry                                                      1.5        3.8            6.1         -3.5
   Manufacturing                                              2.1        4.4            6.9         -3.9
Services                                                      1.5        3.0            7.4         0.9
Privateconsumption                                            1.8        2.7            8.3         3.4
Generalgovernment consumption                                 2.1        1.6            2.0         -1.4
Gross domestic investment                                    -1.2        4.6           11.6         -7.5
Importsof goods and services                                  5.2       12.1           21.5         -2.9

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
`The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond wiii be incomplete




                                                                                  - 83 -

                                                                                                                  Mexico

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1981    1991    2000    2001    Inflation (%)
Domesticprices                                                                                                              1
(?Achange)                                                                40

Consumer prices                            28.0    22.7     9.5     6.41'30
ImplicitGDP deflator                       26.0    23.3    12.0     5.5   20

Government finance                                                        10
(?Aof GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                             24.9    23.5   21.7    22.0              96     97     98       99     00     0:I
Currentbudget balance                       0.9     3.0     2.0     2.8                   GDP deflator   &CPI
Overallsurplusideficit                    -11.9    -0.4    -1.1    -0.7           *a-w.>,
                                                                                       .%




                                                                                                                            I
TRADE
                                          1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                             Exportand Import levels(USS mill.)

Total exports (fob)                     21,078   42,688 166,455 158,443   200.000
 Oil                                     14,573   8,166  16,383  12,799
 AgriCUltUre                              1,482   2,373  4,217   3,903
 Manufactures                             4,338  31,802 145,334 141,353
Total imports(cif)                      24,955   49,967 174,458 168,396
 Food                                     2,808   5,834  16,691  19,752
 Fueland energy                          14,572  35,545 133,637 126,149                                                     I
 Capitalgoods                             7,574   8,588  24,130 22,496
                                                                                    95   96   97            99    00   01
Exportprice index (1995=100)                141      91     106     103                              98

Import priceindex(1995=100)                  72      90     102     103                   Exports         w Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                    196     100     103     101

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                             Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services            28,255   51,478 180,167 171,103
importsof goods and services            35,401   60,508 190,494 184,614
Resourcebalance                          -7,148  -9,030 -10,326 -13,511

Net income                              -10,115  -8,608 -14,732 -13,674
Net current transfers                     1,020   2,991  6,994   9,338

Current account balance                 -16,241 -14,647 -18,065 -17,847

Financingitems (net)                     17,253  22,025  20,886 25,172
Changes in net reserves                  -1,012  -7,378  -2,822  -7,325

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)      4,166  17,772  33,595  39,463
Conversionrate (LJEC,/ocai/US$)         2.00E-2     3.0     9.5     9.3

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                          I  Compositionof 2001 debt(US$ mill.)
Total debt OUtStandingand disbursed     78,215 114,067  150,288 154,447
  IBRD                                    2,417  11,928  11,444  10,883                          A 10,883
  IDA                                         0       0       0       0              G 21,932              D 5.881

Total debt service                       14,340  13,545  58,259  37,848                                           3,018

  IBRD                                      283   1,815  2,220   2,173
  IDA                                         0       0       0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             14     46       23
  Officialcreditors                         901   1,338   -526    -670
  Privatecreditors                      11,597    2,984  -5,265 -15,710
  Foreigndirect investment                2,835   4,742  13,286 21,022
  Portfolioequity                           135   4,404  3,517    3,882                          F:112,733
World Bank program
  Commitments                             1,021   2,532   1,182    860     A IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            460    1,581   1,748    748     B IDA      D -Other multilateral  F Private
  Principal repayments                      106    954    1,330   1,309    C IMF
                                                                             ---                             G Short-term
                                                                                                               ---
  Net flows                                354     628     418    -561
  Interestpayments                          177    861     890      864
  Net transfers                             177   -234    -472   -1,425

ueveiopmenrtconomics                                                                                                YIlJIUZ




                                                       - 84 -



