Page  1
May
31 2002
Mr. Alonso Garc
ía Tames
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur
826
(piso 9)
03100
México, D.F.
Mr. Federico Patiño Marquez 
Director Adjunto de Fomento
Nacional Financiera, S
.
N
.C.
Insurgentes Sur
1971, Torre IV
(piso 12)
 01020 México,D.F.
Re:
Japanese Grant for preparation of the Urban Micro
-
business Project
Grant No
.
TF
026844
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred fifty eight thousand seven hundred fifty U.S. Dollars 
(US$358,750) (the Grant) to the United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request, through Nacional Financiera S.
N
.C. 
(
NAFIN
), for financial assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is 
authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director
Colombia
-
Mexico
–
Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C. (NAFIN)
By:
/s/ Alonso Garc
ía Tames
By:
Federico Patiño Marquez
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
May 31, 2002
Date:
May 31, 2002
Page  3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through 
Nacional Financiera
,
S.
N
.C. 
(
NAFIN
), with the preparation of the Urban Micro-business Project, which has as its main objective 
to promote micro-business entrepreneurship to raise household income and generate employment 
opportunities
(the Project).
The activities
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
carrying out of an assessment of barriers and opportunities for online interaction with the 
Recipient
’s government by micro-finance institutions and micro-businesses, including: (i) carrying 
out of an inventory of the procedures related to government permissions, registration and 
administrative requirements faced by micro/small enterprises and micro-finance intermediaries, and 
an assessment of their adaptability to internet/web based transactions; (ii) carrying out of a survey of 
micro-businesses and micro-finance institutions to identify the barriers faced by these institutions to 
perform online transactions with the Recipient’s government, and assess their present level of usage 
of information technology; and (iii) carrying out of an assessment of the costs and benefits of 
modifying the micro-business/government relationship through improved online technology 
applications or other interventions
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$ 186,300 equivalent);
(b)
(i)
carrying out of an assessment of: (A) the quality, simplicity and user 
friendliness of the existing government to micro-business internet interface; 
(B) the international experience and best practices regarding business 
interactions with electronic government initiatives (e-government) (including 
experiences in USA, Chile, and Singapore), and organization of a workshop 
to analyze and discuss these experiences;
(ii)
design and preparation of: (A) a strategy to streamline and simplify the 
Recipient’s financial current practices and administrative procedures based 
on international best practices and the results of the above mentioned 
surveys;
(B) internet applications that would move the above mentioned 
procedures to the web, using widely available software platforms and 
reflecting best practice lessons from similar initiatives in other countries; (C) 
a
strategy to increase micro-business' comfort level with online transactions 
and information technology (these Activities are estimated to cost 
US$172,450 equivalent);
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services (US$342,750) and workshops 
(US$16,000) required for the Activities.  For the purpose of this paragraph the term “workshop” 
means expenditures (other than those for consultant’s services) related to the carrying out of the 
Activity mentioned in paragraph
(b) (i) above, including per diem of trainers and trainees, travel costs, 
materials and rental of training facilities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct 
of its staff or external consultants.
Page  4
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than October 15, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date).
Except in special circumstances, no 
proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, 
and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the 
Closing Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be governed, 
except as otherwise decided by the Bank (in consultation with the Recipient), by the provisions of the 
Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants
’
personnel
(other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Page  5
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of Statement 
15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated November 2000 (the Administrative Manual), the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 below, services rendered by consulting firms 
for the Activities described under paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities described under paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
4.
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities described under paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.5
of the Consultant Guidelines
(Selection under a Fixed Budget).
5.
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities described under paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines.
