                                Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                              Report No: AB167


Project Name                    MEXICO-E-Business for Small Business Development Project
Region                          Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                          Information technology (100%)
Theme                           Small and medium enterprise support (P); Other urban development (S)
Project                         P068290
Borrower(s)
Implementing Agency(ies)
                                E-Mexico of the Ministry of Communications and Transport
                                Address: Av. Universidad y Xola, Edificio C, 1er Piso, Col. Navarte C.P. 03028,
                                México, D.F.
                                Contact Person: Jose I. Gomez Gallardo y Latapi, Manager, E-Mexico
                                Tel: 52-55-5723-9300 Ext. 40105        Fax: 52-55-5530-7642           Email:
                                jgomezg@sct.gob.mx
Environment Category            C (Not Required)

Date PID Prepared               July 23, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date             February 11, 2002
Bank Approval Date              July 31, 2003


1. Country and Sector Background
        Economic inequality and urban poverty. Mexico is currently among the most
economically unequal countries in the world. The productive sector continues to be characterized
by a dual structure that seems to have become increasingly differentiated in the wake of trade
liberalization and the banking crisis of the 1990s. While Mexico has a dynamic export sector
made up of internationally competitive conglomerates experiencing a boom in trade, the export
base has remained rather narrow and concentrated in few larger firms. Its poor integration with
the domestic economy, which is constituted mainly by micro and small businesses, is reflected in
the fact that only 4% of inputs to the export sector are provided by local Mexican firms.

         Much of this inequality falls in urban areas. Three-quarters of Mexico's population live
in cities. The Federal District (D.F.), alone, has an estimated 8.6 million people within District
limits. A total of nearly 22 million people live in the Mexico Valle, or about 25% of the nation's
total urban population. Intermediate cities (each between 0.5 and 4 million persons) grew at
more than 3% per annum over the last decade and now account for nearly 40% of the urban
population. Eighty-five percent of the country's GDP is produced in urban areas, where
nine-tenths of GDP growth was also generated over the last decade.

        Cities are also where two-thirds of the country's poor live. Today, 35 million poor
individuals live in cities and account for 64% of the country's total poor; about 12 million of
these are the country's extreme poor. From an regional perspective, 55% of the urban poor are
found in the Federal District and the country's Central Region, including Jalisco, Michoacan,
Mexico, Puebla and Veracruz. Within cities, the poor tend to be concentrated in informal
settlements on the outer rings of growing agglomerations, and over half of the urban poor work
in the informal sector. In these areas, female-headed households absent other adults, poor youth

                                                          2
                                                                                                  PID



at risk, and crime and violence are particularly evident. Integrating them progressively into the
formal economy and improving their earning abilities and quality of life are essential elements to
reducing poverty rates and making cities more competitive and livable for all.

         MSB Growth Constraints. As in other countries, the MSB sector accounts for an
important share of economic activity in Mexico. MSBs in the formal and informal sectors are
estimated to number nearly 2.9 million economic units across the country, or about 97% of the
total number. They contribute about 39% of private sector value added and provide jobs about
62% of the private sector labor force. Their activities are, as elsewhere, very heterogeneous
across commerce, services and manufacturing. In Mexico's Federal District, for example,
registered microbusinesses within the industrial sector are concentrated in food, clothing,
furniture and wood products, publishing and printing, and metal products. They operate from
variety of settings---an owner's residence, commercial premises, makeshift and open-air
locations, and as itinerants. Owners and employees usually have no more than a third-grade level
of primary education. Women predominate in food and clothing, while men are more active in
repair services of household goods.

         Assessments by the Ministry of Economy in 2001 show that Mexican MSBs frequently
lack a culture of process innovation and technology adaptation, have major weaknesses in access
to skills training and financing, and lack links to academic institutions and growth sectors.
Surveys by the Mexican National Statistics Institute, Bank sector work and NGO analyses
corroborate this, indicating in particular that a majority of microbusinesses operated by both
sexes do not have intentions to expand their businesses with new investment, increasing
employees or developing new products (versus 21% which responded favorably). Entrepreneurs
listed a lack of clients, excessive competition, low earnings, and the lack of economic resources
and credit (access and cost) as their principal constraints.

                                     Mexico Urban Microbusiness Survey, 1998
                                                Main Problems Faced




                                        Problem faced Frequency of Response
                                                      (% of total)
                               Lack of clients                          29.6
                               Excessive competition                     28.3
                               Low earnings                             15.6
                               Lack of economic resources & credit       10.2
                               Customers pay with delays                  6.5
                               Problems with authorities                  2.9
                               Problems with merchandise, inputs          4.0
                               Problems with workers/partners             1.3
                               Other                                      1.6
                               Source: INEGI


         These responses reflect the fact that most MSBs operate in an economic duality; that is,
within their own local communities and substantially separate from the mainstream formal
economy. Such businesses depend for their production inputs on local retailers and sell mostly to
nearby consumers in the area. They sell almost entirely to individual customers (rather than
intermediaries like wholesalers, retailers or other traders) and on spot cash sales terms rather than

                                                 3
                                                                                                 PID



on contracts and orders. Likewise, most buy supplies and raw materials from retail firms rather
than buying from wholesalers or importing directly. Furthermore, the income levels of most of
the households within these market areas are likely to be very low---in the D.F., the poorest five
consumption deciles of the population account for income purchasing power of only about 21.5%
(1998) of the City's total, whereas the upper five income deciles of the population---which are
mostly outside these areas---consume 78.5% of the City's total.

       Government Strategy. With an impressive set of real sector reforms on the
macroeconomic front, such as liberalization of trade and investment and entry into NAFTA, the
Government of President Fox is giving very high priority attention to extending productivity
benefits to the "other Mexican private sector". It recognizes that, to do this, MSBs need
essentially to build access to higher-income markets and to increase their competitiveness in
such markets. The Government has recently articulated its approach to this in its Enterprise
Development Plan for 2001-2006 adopted in December 2001, which emphasizes a
market-oriented approach and whose aims emphasize:

    a. expanding business development services to help accelerate development of business
       skills, knowledge, technology and innovation;
    b. strengthening buyer-seller market linkages and logistics, including via regional business
       clusters, MSB- large firm subcontracting networks and indirect exporting; and
    c. improving the business climate, including by reducing the transaction costs to business of
       government requirements via process simplification and electronic-based services.

       One important strategic approach adopted by the Government to achieve these objectives
is through the E-Mexico initiative. President Fox launched in December 2001 the E-Mexico
program as an agent of change in the country to increase digital participation and reduce
socioeconomic differences among Mexicans. E-Mexico promotes services in learning, health,
commerce and government by increasing connectivity, content and applications. In the
e-economy segment of the program, E-Mexico is working to accelerate the process of the digital
development in the enterprises, particularly MSBs, to help increase the competitiveness of the
Mexican economy.

2. Objectives
       Bank activities to generate urban economic growth have been focused largely in areas
such as urban government management and municipal finance, infrastructure and housing
upgrading, and environmental cleanup. In Mexico, the urban poor amount to 35 million people
or two-thirds of the country's total poor. Recently, Bank urban strategies are also placing stress
on direct support for productive firms to promote buoyant, broad-based growth of investment,
incomes and employment.

       As part of such strategies, the Project objective would be to help increase the
competitiveness and growth of micro and small businesses (MSBs) in poor urban areas of
Mexico through the adoption of e-business. "E-business", when well integrated with a firm's
business processes and organization, involves considerable innovation in business processes and
tends to have a strong positive impact on productivity, competitiveness and growth. The

                                                  4
                                                                                                  PID



definition of MSBs for Project purposes is consistent with the Government's statistical institute,
INEGI and includes micro and small businesses with up to 100 employees. "E-business" refers
to the progressive process of (1) investment in information and communications technologies
(ICT), such as personal computers (PCs), other hardware equipment, software, Internet
connectivity, and local and wide area networking; (2) their application to individual business
processes like market research, production, finance, and management; and (3) the purchase
and/or sale of goods and services between a business and other businesses, households,
individuals and/or governments over computerized networks.

        The Project objective would be achieved through the following two components:

(a)     Build e-business development services markets for MSBs via (i) an e-business benefits
awareness program, (ii) an e-learning and innovation program providing demand-side matching
grants for BDS providing information, training, market access and technology appropriate to
MSB needs to adopt e-business solutions, (iii) a supply-side business centers innovation pilot in
ICT-based business development services (BDS) providing distance learning, new market
access, management tools, and online trading to reduce transaction costs; and (iv) an E-BDS
innovation pilot for the promotion of new employment of urban at-risk youth through ICT-based
training and job placement;

(b)     Improve MSB access to ICT infrastructure and new economy e-gov business services ­
technical assistance, hardware and software investments to (i) extend internet services to MSBs
and to reduce regulations, increase innovation and competitiveness, and (ii) simplify institutional
practices associated with business regulations involving registration, operating licenses and
inspections, labor and tax registration and renewals via installation of best practices electronic
government services.

        While the Project would have a national geographic scope, implementation would begin
in Mexico's Federal District (Mexico City) and the urban areas of its central region states of
Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nuevo Leon, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas---where the majority
of urban poverty and about 45% of MSBs are found. Implementation capacity would be
expanded to other urban areas of other regions according to demand.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
        The Government and E-Mexico view the Bank's main role as helping to (i) leverage
existing programs by increasing analytical work, cross-country experience and internal dialogue
on key MSB policy and institutional development issues, (ii) ensure that the MSB agenda is
closely linked with social objectives, and that policy/institutional analyses and program
development incorporate the interests of a wide spectrum of socio-economic groups in Mexico,
and (iii) help to strengthen E-Mexico programs by emphasizing market development of services
and deepening public-private cooperation in program implementation. The Bank can also
provide efficient access to international best practices, specialized consultants and courses, and
management tools for microfinance institutions.

                                                     5
                                                                                                         PID



4. Description
        The proposed Project would support the increased competitiveness and growth of micro
and small businesses (MSBs) in poor urban areas of Mexico. It would contain two components
aimed to substantially increase access to sustainable business development services and to
improve the business climate for microbusiness investment and operation.
1. Build E-business Development Services Markets for MSB.
(1a) E-business benefits awareness program ­ workshops, general literature/web site promotion
campaigns, success case demonstrators and targeted awareness promotion; collaborative awareness
(exchange of experience); and awareness focusing on specific sectors to promote awareness of benefits
of e-business;

(1b) E-business learning and innovation program for firms - establish a temporary Program including (i)
promotion to MSBs on e-business uses & benefits, (ii) a 50-50 matching grant window for small business
based on individually approved e-business plans, and an 80-20 matching voucher window for low-income
microbusinesses to acquire information, training and specialized technical assistance to develop and
implement e-business plans; and (iii) a Program client assistance and management contract to implement
the Program;

(1c) E-BDS business centers innovation pilot: demonstrate broad outreach & sustainability in ICT-based
BDS services and delivery ­ technical services, equipment and works to build a prototype network of
ICT-based business development centers providing skills-appropriate business training, product
marketing, and IT services;

(1d) E-BDS youth start innovation pilot ­ technical services to demonstrate mechanisms to facilitate the
transition from unemployment to work through ICT- and counselor-based integrated processes of
counseling, job preparation, and job placement.

(2) Improve MSB access to ICT infrastructure and new economy e-gov business services.
(2.a) E-government services for MSBs to reduce barriers to business formation and operations ­ technical
assistance, equipment and works to re-engineer, deliver and promote electronically government services
associated with business registration, licensing and permits, labor and tax regulations, zoning restrictions
and the like;

(2b) MSB access to ICT infrastructure ­ a demand and barriers study, design of incentives, and pilot
projects to help increase MSB connectivity to ICT networks on a commercially sustainable basis and to
increase ICT infrastructure, networks and services provision, especially among MSBs in Mexico's
poorest regions.

Management Unit (operational expenditures)

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($20.50)
IBRD ($58.40)
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY ($21.90)
Total Project Cost: $100.80

                                                   6
                                                                                               PID



6. Implementation
        The Project would be implemented through the Secretariat of Communications and
Transport and representatives in the Technical Committee of the E-Mexico Trust.
Understandings about program implementation, coordination with related programs and
budgetary issues are covered in financial agency and administrative services agreements between
the SHCP, E-Mexico and NAFIN. For day-to-day management of the Project, the Coordinator of
E-Mexico would establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) supported by the implementation
services agreement with NAFIN, which has a sound management capacity for this purpose. The
Unit would be constituted by a dedicated technical core team consisting of a Project Manager, 4
Program Managers for the business development services subcomponents, 2 Program Managers
for the investment climate components, and 4 support staff. Since it is critical that the
Management Unit be fully operative from the start of Project implementation, the staffing of this
core team in the Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.

        NAFIN would perform under the Project financial agency and administrative services
agreements project management functions for procurement, contracting, disbursement and
reporting. The contractor hired to provide client assistance and manage the E-business Learning
and Innovation Program would report through NAFIN to E-Mexico. E-Mexico would be
responsible for adopting the policies and procedures of the ELIP in the Operating Manual,
monitoring progress and compliance with the Manual, and evaluating impact. Implementation of
the E-BDS innovation pilot would be carried out by a management contract under a business plan
satisfactory to the Bank. The E-BDS Youth Start Program would be managed by one or more
qualified NGOs (eligibility criteria to be set for in the Project Operating Manual) operating
within the E-BDS business centers. The component for government electronic services to reduce
barriers to business registration and operation would be carried by sub-project integrator
contractors selected under Bank Guidelines and operating under sub-project agreements between
NAFIN and the participating local governments.

        The Project Coordination Unit would also undertake the following:

    Carry out the Project Launch Plan;
    Prepare annually by November 30, with inputs from Project institutions and in agreement
    with the Bank, Annual Action Plans for the years 2003-2007;
    Prepare Quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports on execution and impact
    against agreed institutional and financial performance targets;
    Hold a Project Mid-term Review by June 30, 2005;
    Ensure general Project coordination between E-Mexico, NAFIN, the Ministry of Finance and
    other entities involved in Project execution; and
    Prepare the borrower's portion of the Project Implementation Completion Report in
    coordination with the managing agencies.

        Project Financial management.          NAFIN, represented by its International Finance
Department acting as financial agent, would manage project funds under a Bank-certified
financial management system for accounting, reporting, and auditing. This system, to be defined
in a Project Manual of Administrative-Financial Procedures, would cover financial management

                                                  7
                                                                                                 PID



responsibilities, procedures, documentary formats for use of the Special Account, procurement of
goods and services, the Integrated Accounting System, internal documentary controls and
inventory controls over office equipment and supplies. The accounting and auditing practices,
standards and controls, and reporting format and content would be defined by the Bank.

        Auditing of Project accounts would be carried out by an independent private sector firm
acceptable to the Bank. The audit review will be carried out based on an existing memorandum
of understanding (Memorandum de Entendimiento Tecnico, MET), which was agreed between
the Bank, the SECODAM, local financial agencies (including NAFIN) and the Ministry of
Finance (SHCP). A specific shortlist of such firms for the Project would be prepared and
reviewed by the Bank for its no-objection. Terms of reference for such audits would be prepared
and agreed upon in accordance with Bank model TORs, covering statements of income and
expenses, all sources and uses of project funds and comparisons with the Bank's Project
Appraisal Document, assets and liabilities, SOEs, Special Account, internal control system,
conformity with the Bank's Loan Agreement. Audit work would begin at the Project's startup to
confirm the auditability of the financial management system. Audit reports would be submitted
within 4 months following the end of the fiscal year. This financial management system would
conform to the Bank's requirements under BP10.02. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Government would have put into operation a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
administrative, financial and accounting control of the Project, and hire the external auditors.

        Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project Coordination Unit would be responsible
for Project monitoring and evaluation of progress toward project development objectives and use
the Project Design Summary in Annex 1 as a basis to track the key Project inputs, processes,
outputs and outcome/impact. A data collection system would be prepared for this purpose,
which would utilize a baseline data set as a control group and "barometer" of project progress.
These same firms would be tracked at the mid-point and end of the Project and their evaluation
data compared with similar evaluations of firms participating in the Project. The Management
Unit would utilize the system to (i) prepare quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
on execution and impact against agreed performance targets, and (ii) hold a Project Midterm
Review by June 30, 2005. While the Management Unit itself would be responsible for
monitoring implementation activities and outputs, a qualified local firm paid for by the Bank
loan would be responsible for preparing within this reporting system a regular independent
evaluation of Project outcome and impact.


7. Sustainability
        Mexico's government at the highest levels has voiced its strong commitments which,
along with the continuity in the private sector's involvement throughout the preparation process,
will help to ensure sustained momentum under the implementation phase of the Project and of
meeting its institutional development goals. The design of the business climate reforms and
institutional improvements closely conforms to the Government's E-Mexico initiatives and has
strong internal support both within the Federal Government and at many state levels.

        The E-business Learning and Innovation Program is not intended to be sustained. It has a
defined exit policy, deliberately making it a temporary one-time efforts to reduce market failures.

                                                   8
                                                                                                 PID



However, experience elsewhere with mechanisms of this kind show that they are likely to create
three sustainable effects: (i) having helped firms to meet the usually high costs of pre-commercial
learning, they encourage a durable commitment to new markets as long as operating costs are
covered; (ii) having introduced firms to the benefits of using business development services,
firms tend to recognize their full value and no longer need subsidies to motivate their use; and
(iii) they encourage development of a local market of e-business learning and businesses support.




8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
         Traditionally, government intervention to promote micro- and small businesses has
focused on the provision of BDS often through public institutions or nongovernmental
organizations. These include training to labor and management; extension, consultancy, and
counseling; marketing and information; technology development and diffusion; and efforts to
improve business linkages through subcontracting, franchising, and business clusters. There is
broad consensus among many supporters that publicly-provided BDS often suffer from being too
general and supply-driven, of poor quality, with insufficient awareness of cost control. The types
of products and delivery mechanisms offered by donors and public institutions may also not be
consistent with the needs and willingness-to-pay of MSBs.

         Instead, a more market-oriented strategy is needed which focuses on increasing MSB
access to markets - for the goods and services that micro- and small businesses produce (both
domestic and export); for inputs used by such businesses (including information, technology, and
competitively-priced materials); and for a diverse range of financial services and BDS which
support business growth and competitiveness. This approach redirects government intervention
toward:

         addressing the market failures that create cost disadvantages for micro- and small
         businesses, restrict their access to markets, and inhibit the development of markets for
         financial services and BDS appropriate for such firms;

         reconsidering public policies and regulations that produce high transaction costs and thus
         create a competitive disadvantage for micro- and small firms, and reforming public
         business assistance programs which have low-impact, are inefficient, and may crowd out
         private initiatives; and

         investing in public goods that open market access and develop markets for support
         services -- including information, infrastructure (transport, market facilities,
         communications), training, product development for financial services and BDS, and

                                                      9
                                                                                                            PID



        institutional capacity-building.

This strategy represents a fundamental shift in the role of the government, away from direct
provision of services and benefits for MSBs and toward the development of markets and
networks.

        MSBs need different types of BDS, institutions and delivery mechanisms than larger
firms. The government can accelerate market development by promoting supply innovation and
building institutional capacity that encourages the development of private markets for services,
and by rationalizing public expenditure on business assistance programs to reduce their distorting
effects. Some of the design lessons from experience See, for example, "Conclusions of the International
Conference on the Business Development Services Industry for Small Enterprises", Rio de Janeiro, March 1999. to
incorporate in this approach include:

        while many BDS initiatives have demonstrated success in supporting MSB development,
        they have not reached significant scale and are unlikely to do so without (i) engaging in a
        private-public sector partnership which incorporates a strong up-front commitment to
        financial sustainability, and (ii) establishing from the outset product designs and delivery
        systems which rely on full cost recovery;

        strong attention should be given to developing BDS markets through a better
        understanding of the problems and situational needs of the clients, and innovation in
        service products and delivery to affordably meet those needs across a mass market. This
        should include focusing explicitly on the lower-income, least experienced and often
        female entrepreneurs, who are by and large engaged in trade; emphasizing market
        research and development for the growth of client businesses, and combining it with
        entrepreneurial training;

        information services among BDS, relating especially to markets and technology, play a
        particularly critical role in MSB development and need greater emphasis;

        the traditional narrow focus on a single program, such as entrepreneurship training, credit,
        or marketing---should be expanded to more multi-dimensional programs which have
        greater impact. MSB operators already exercise considerable day-to-day
        entrepreneurship, and seek to address the multiple constraints they face in their operating
        environment involving market information, diseconomies of scale in procurement,
        production and sales, accessing physical infrastructure and utilities, and policy/regulatory
        obstacles; and

        BDS should generally be delivered by specialized institutions rather than microfinance
        lenders, since they should offer products going beyond those directly related to credit and
        need specialized staff skills and systems to do so.

                                                10
                                                                                               PID



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues :         The Project would consist primarily of firm-level technical assistance,
institution-building among business services providers, and regulatory changes at the municipal
level in regard to formalization of business. Based upon past experience elsewhere, the ELIP is
likely to include support to MSBs in the acquisition of clean technologies and to obtaining
internationally recognized certification systems for quality and environmental protection, such as
ISO 9,000 and ISO 14,000.

                                                   11
                                                                                                        PID




Safeguard Policies. This project involves:



[ ] Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)           []   Riparian water rights
                                                                       (OP 7.50)     (BP 7.50)    (GP
                                                                                                  7.50)
[ ] Cultural property (OPN 11.03)          [ ]  Financial management (OP 10.02)                  (BP
                                                                                                 10.02)
[ ] Environmental impacts                  [ ]  Financing of recurrent costs       (OMS 1.21)
    (OP 4.01)     (BP 4.01)    (GP 4.01)
[ ] Natural habitats                       [ ]  Local cost sharing
    (OP 4.01)     (BP 4.01)    (GP 4.01)         (OP 6.30)              (BP 6.30)          (GP 6.30)
[ ] Gender issues (OP 4.20)                [ ]  Cost-sharing above country three-year average
                                                 (GP 6.30)             (OP 6.30)           (BP 6.30)
[ ] Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)     [ ]  Retroactive financing above normal limit
                                                 (OP 12.10)            (GP 12.10)
[ ] NGO involvement (GP 14.70)             [ ]  Disputed territory
                                                 (OP 7.60)              (BP 7.60)          (GP 7.60)
                                           [ ]  Other (provide necessary details)




10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     James C. Hanna
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
    Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202 473 19 72
      Fax:

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax:     (202) 522-1500
        Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop


Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.

12
      PID

