                                Document of
                             The World Bank


                                                   Report No: 61671-CO




                         RESTRUCTURING PAPER


                                   ON A


                  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                    OF

   JSDF GRANT FOR ACCESS TO OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE IN
                           COLOMBIA

                            GRANT No TF058110


                                    TO

 AGENCIA PRESIDENCIAL PARA LA ACCION SOCIAL Y LA COOPERACION
                       INTERNACIONAL


                                May 10, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

      (There are no abbreviations and acronyms)




Regional Vice President:       Pamela Cox
      Country Director:        Gloria M. Grandolini
        Sector Director:       Laura Tuck
       Sector Manager:         Maninder S. Gill
     Task Team Leader:         Natalia Gomez



                           2
                   COLOMBIA


                   CONTENTS

                              Page
PROJECT SUMMARY                 4
PROJECT STATUS                 4
PROPOSED CHANGES              5




                      3
           JSDF Grant Access to Opportunities for Young People Project
                                  TF093141

                                      FOR Colombia


                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER




SUMMARY

The objective of the Project is to enhance the access of young men and women, between
the ages of 14 to 26 years old, to opportunities for education, work and political
participation in Colombia. The Project consists of the following parts: Part A. Financial
and Technical Support for Project Initiatives of Young; Part B. Financial and Technical
Support to Local Governments and Agencies Specialized on Youth; Part C. Monitoring,
Evaluation and Training, and Part D. Bank Incremental Costs, Supervision and
Operational Costs.

The proposed changes are: (i) clarify that the activities related to Part B.2 of the Project
will be performed through subgrants; (ii) specify the funds allocated to said subgrants; (iii)
specify the number of events that will be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project; (iv)
remove Part D of the Project from of the Grant Agreement; and (v) other formal changes
such as updating of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and correcting a few typos and missing
words in the description of activities.

The proposed changes intend to improve the financial and administrative arrangements
necessary to carry out the Project through adjustments to the Grant Agreement in order to
make it more consistent with the content of the approved Grant Proposal, Budget and
Table of Categories of Eligible Expenditures. In this regard, the proposed changes will
clarify that Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project will be implemented through subgrants, as
originally intended in the approved Grant Proposal. By doing so, it will solve the
inconsistency that arises between the eligible expenditures authorized under the category
(5) Subgrants for Subprojects and the activities to be performed under Parts A.1 and B.1,
as said eligible expenditures include subgrants related activities in connection with both
Parts but only Part A.1 refers to activities to be performed through subgrants. In addition, it
should be noted that the proposed changes do not alter the objective, components,
activities, or deliverables of the Project, neither do they imply a change to the Project’s
safeguards category.

PROJECT STATUS

The Access to Opportunities for Youth People in Colombia Project, TF093141, is
funded by the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) in an amount of US$1,734,625.
The Grant Agreement between the World Bank and Fundación Restrepo Barco (Grant
Recipient) was signed by the Bank on July 1, 2010; by Agencia Presidencial para la
Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional (Acción Social) on July 19, 2010, and by
Fundación Restrepo Barco on July 28, 2010. The Project became effective on August

                                              4
23, 2010 and it is under implementation. The closing date is scheduled on July 28, 2014.
Activities carried out include hiring the project team who is now in full activity, making
field visits by project staff to each of the six Departments where the Project will be
implemented, identifying the partner organizations in each of the regions of the project,
preparing the final version of the Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, preparing
the Annual Implementation Plan and budget, drafting the Inter Institutional Cooperation
Agreements between Partner Organizations and the Executing Agency, and carrying out
the first meeting of the National Advisory Committee.

PROPOSED CHANGES

After discussion with the Recipient to improve the financial and administrative
arrangements necessary to carry out the Project, it has been agreed to amend the Grant
Agreement to, inter alia: (i) clarify that the activities related to Part B.2 of the Project
will be performed through subgrants; (ii) specify the funds allocated to said subgrants;
(iii) specify the number of events that will be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project;
(vi) remove Part D of the Project from the Grant Agreement; and (v) make other formal
changes such as updating the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and correcting of a few typos
and missing words in the description of activities.

   •   Results/Indicators
       - Under Part B.1 each municipality where the Project operates shall have the
          opportunity to participate in at least two events during the life of the Project.

   •   Components
       - Part B.2 of the Project will be executed through subgrants.

       -   Part D. Bank Incremental Costs and Supervision and Operational Costs will
           be removed from the Grant Agreement as it will not be carried out by the
           Recipient and Implementing Agency. Part D. of the Project will be
           implemented as a Bank-executed Component, as it is stated in the approved
           Grant Proposal.

   •   Financing
          o Project Costs
              Project costs will be clarified to specify that Category 5, subgrants, will
              finance not only subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project, but also
              subprojects under Part B.2 of the Project, as follows:

                                    Project Costs (US$)
    Components/                        Current                 Proposed distribution of funds
     Activities             distribution of funds within       within Category (5) Subgrants
                              Category (5) Subgrants
Part A.1                             1.080.000                            600.000
Part B.2                                  0                               480.000
Total                                1.080.000                          1.080.000




                                              5
6
