 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14625

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/27/2015

               Country: Colombia
             Project ID: P051306                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Peace And                     Project Costs (US$M):                      30.0                47.5
                         Development Project
                         (1st Phase Apl)
  L/C Number:            L7232; L7781                  Loan/Credit (US$M):                      30.0                37.4
      Sector Board:      Social Development            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                   06/10/2004
                                                                Closing Date:             03/15/2008           09/15/2012
          Sector(s):       Other social services (30%); Crops (20%); Sub-national government administration (20%);
                           Adult literacy/non-formal education (20%); Other industry (10%)
          Theme(s):        Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (29% - P); Participation and civic
                           engagement (29% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (14% - S); Improving labor
                           markets (14% - S); Other public sector governance (14% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Emmanuel Y. Jimenez        Soniya Carvalho         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

According to the Project Appraisal Document (page 5) and the Loan Agreement dated September 27, 2004 (page 22),
the project development objective was:

“to assist vulnerable, low-income and displaced populations in rural and urban communities in the Conflict Affected
Region in order to reduce the risk of their exposure to conflict and mitigate the negative impact of possible derived
effects.”

This project was the first of a two-phase seven-year Adjustable Program Loan (APL) that aimed to reduce the
vulnerability of the low-income and displaced population affected by internal conflict in Colombia. Phase I was to do
so by supporting the scaling up of the successful Magdalena Medio Peace and Development Program to four
additional conflict-affected regions of Colombia while continuing the support to the Magdalena Medio region. Phase II
was expected to consolidate the social, economic and institutional gains of the regions of Phase I, and expand the
scope of intervention into other conflict-affected areas of Colombia. The government subsequently chose not to ask
for the second phase of the program loan.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:


A: Developing Social, Economic and Environmental Assets in Priority Areas (appraised cost US$10.63 million; actual
n/a). This component included investments in priority areas as follows: (i) promoting the production of basic staple
food crops for self-consumption to benefit around 40,000 low-income families; (ii) generating employment
opportunities through farm and non-farm productive services and small business activities to benefit around 10,000
low-income families; (iii) enhancing the social network in priority areas to benefit around 9,000 low-income families to:
(a) facilitate the access of vulnerable and low-income populations to basic social services; (b) promote job
opportunities for youth; (c) improve housing and sanitary conditions for low-income families; (d) promote a culture of
peaceful co-existence among populations of priority areas in the context of regional development and the sense of
belonging; and (iv) developing social and economic activities to protect the environment.

B. Support for Displaced Families in the Process of Return and Relocation (appraised cost US$10.82 million; actual
n/a). This component included (i) promoting the production of basic staple food crops for self consumption, to benefit
around 8,000 displaced families; (ii) facilitating the access to public health and education services to displaced
populations; (iii) developing social and economic opportunities for about 17,000 families as they begin to stabilize; (iv)
providing basic sanitation to ensure that around 6,000 displaced returning households have at least a minimum
acceptable access to safe water, sanitation and basic housing conditions.

C. Strengthening Institutions and Governance at the Local Level (appraised cost US$5.59 million; IBRD additional
financing US$1.30 million; actual n/a). The component included strengthening of the institutional capacity of partner
organizations and Territorial Units of the Network of Social Solidarity (RSS) and the National System of Integral
Attention for the Displaced Population (SNAIPD) by partner organizations.

D: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (appraisal cost US$1,77 million; IBRD additional financing
US$2.08 million; actual n/a). The component included provision of support for overall project coordination, evaluation,
supervision and implementation.

Revised Components during Additional Financing in 2009:

A. Developing Social, Economic and Environmental Assets and Community Support for Displaced and Vulnerable
Families in the Priority Areas of the Conflict Affected Regions through Strategic Territorial Development Processes
(IBRD additional financing of US$4.43 million). The activities under original two components A and B were merged
together. The blending of the components was for two reasons: the type of activities financed are the same for both
components, namely, food security, income and job generation, housing improvements, social, cultural and
environmental activities; and (ii) the development of subproject initiatives demonstrated a natural tendency for
internally displaced population and vulnerable populations to work together on these activities since they all live in the
same communities or municipalities and are all affected by the same social and economic processes. There were no
changes in the activities carried out (AF Project Paper, p.8).


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project costs: At appraisal projects costs were expected to be US$30.00 million. Actual costs were US$47.53 million
due to expansion of project activities and addition of another region of Colombia for support.

Financing: Of the IBRD Loan of US$30.00 million, US$29.87 million was disbursed and US$0.13 million was
cancelled. Additional Financing of US$7.81 million was approved on August 12, 2009, of which US$7.54 million was
disbursed and US$0.27 million was cancelled. The Bank also executed two Japanese Trust Funds totaling US$3.06
million. The first fund in 2009 for US$1.59 million disbursed US$1.48 million and US$0.11 million was cancelled. The
second fund in 2010 for US$1.73 million was fully disbursed. In addition to project funding, there were parallel EU
grants of US$37.10 million independently managed. Together, the Bank, Borrower and EU funds were designated as
support to Colombia’s overall Peace and Development Agenda.

Borrower Contribution: At appraisal no counterpart funding was envisaged. However at the time of Additional
Financing, the government utilized an EU Grant of US$7.07 million in local currency.

Dates: The project closing date was extended by a total of about four years from March 15, 2008 to September 15,
2012 due to delays in implementation and additional activities. Additional Financing, which was approved in 2009, i)
expanded the territorial coverage, incorporating Valle del Cauca and a new Partner Organization (Vallenpaz); ii)
combined original Components A and B into one (Component A); iii) began implementation of specific institutional
strengthening sub-projects under Component B (original project’s Component C); vi) strengthened the strategies for
Partner Organization’s support of the Beneficiary Entity (OU), and v) included additional results associated with the
consolidation of the Strategic Territorial Processes (PET).
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, there were almost 2 million internally displaced people (IDP) as a result of the armed conflict. It was
estimated that 30% of displaced households lived in extreme poverty and 54% were on the threshold of poverty. The
project objectives were aligned with the Government policy, presented in the National Development Plan 2002-2006,
to strengthen governance and democracy and to promote social equity in deprived and conflict- affected regions. One
of the pillars of the current National Development Plan, “Prosperity for All”, is the consolidation of peace. In October
2012, the current government initiated a dialogue with the FARC in an effort to end the armed conflict. Among the five
main priorities of the agenda is comprehensive agrarian development and compensation for the victims of the armed
conflict. The project development objectives were also relevant to the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy FY12-16,
which was to support the Government of Colombia (GOC) in enhancing social promotion and improved citizens
security under the overarching goal of expanding opportunities for social prosperity.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial.
The statement of the objectives was clear. The project’s key assumptions were that enhanced social, economic and
environmental assets would lead to a lower risk of displacement even in the face of conflict; that displaced populations
that lost these assets would require a safety net to help them rebuild; and that these assets are best built by
participatory community- driven approaches.

The project was designed to be implemented in eight regions (Departments) (Antioquia, Bolivar, Cauca, Cesar,
Nariiio, Norte de Santander, Santander, and Sucre), which were selected based on high poverty rates, displacement
intensity (number of IDPs per 100,000 inhabitants), displacement pressure (number of received IDPs per 100,000
inhabitants), absolute numbers of expulsion and reception of internally displaced population (IDPs), thematic and
geographical linkages with EU-funded Peace Laboratories and the presence of strong Peace and Development
Program (PDP). The project integrated in a single intervention model both the territorial focus and the population
focus with an emphasis on the displaced population. This however constituted a technical and political challenge as
local tensions were generated by competition for resources among the communities. The design was therefore
adjusted merging two components associated with the execution of joint initiatives for the vulnerable and displaced
populations.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To assist vulnerable, low-income and displaced populations in rural and urban communities in the Conflict Affected
Region in order to reduce the risk of their exposure to conflict and mitigate the negative impact of possible derived
effects.


(i) to reduce the risk of exposure to conflict in vulnerable , low-income and displaced populations in rural and urban
communities in the Conflict Affected Region . Substantial.

Outputs
Social, economic and environmental assets were generated for a total of 89,367 families, (25,600 out of them
corresponding to IDP). More than 60% of them were enrolled in income- generation and social, cultural and
environmental management subprojects, while 80% were enrolled in food security, habitat improvement and income
generation subprojects benefitting in particular IDP that returned to their places of origin or relocated in other regions.


Outcome
The number of IDP in the regions where the project operated (355,637 IDP) as percentage of the national total
(2,236,963), was reduced from 18% in 2004 to 7% in 2012. Although not all can be attributed to the project, there is
evidence that the beneficiary families achieved socio-economic stabilization, consolidated their social organizations,
and gained influence in public affairs at the local level (according to the Peace and Development and Peace
Laboratories Impact Evaluation, DNP 2008 and 2011).

(ii) To mitigate the negative impact of possible derived effects on these populations . Substantial.

Outputs
The National System of Integral Attention for the Displaced Population (SNAIPD) was supported through reactivation
of around 50 Municipal Councils for Internally Displaced Population’s Integral Attention (CMAIPDs), through: i) the
involvement of leaders of Beneficiary Entities (OU) supported by the project; ii) the assistance from the Territorial Unit
of Acción Social (currently DPS) and the Partner Organization; and iii) the formulation of 70 PIUs, with a leading role
played by the CMAIPDs. Five Strategic Territorial Development Processes were implemented benefitting 5 PO, 32
OU and 682 community leaders trained in citizens’ participation, participatory planning and budget accountability.

Outcome

The results of the Impact Evaluation (IE) indicate that, based on a randomly selected sample, the sub-project
beneficiaries came from the lower income-strata and after the project, had more access to other government
programs than before. While the impact on income was mixed – incomes from salaries went up but those from
self-employment declined, according to the IE -- there was an increase in monthly income as well as overall
household spending on food. The IE concludes that food security for beneficiaries rose more than for the control.
There was also some indication that beneficiaries’ housing improved as well as their amount of savings.

The Capacity Planning Index (ICP) was applied to the six PO, which increased their capacity above 70%. The
Organizational Capacity Index (ICO) was applied to the sub-project executing organizations (OU), 565 in total, which
increased their capacity indexes above the initial levels. According to the Impact Evaluation (the baseline established
in 2008 and the second collection of information in 2011), the project support generated conditions for socioeconomic
stabilization, which helped to strengthen ties to the territory and thereby discouraging participants from moving.


5. Efficiency:

The ICR does not have an adequate analysis of efficiency. The PDP has a lower cost per beneficiary family than the
EU funded project but it is not possible to say whether these are comparable. First, since the two projects are
claimed to be complementary to each other (see the AF project document) it seems difficult to compare the two.
Second, the cost is determined by the actual cost per beneficiary family. However, because demand-driven projects
are so different from one another, and the evaluations indicate some variance in how much families benefit, the
efficiency measure in the ICR Review is not a precise enough metric.

It would have been better to have compared the PDP costs in terms of assets built or benefits provided compared to
other programs. This is done in one case where the PDP is compared to the RESA program to reduce food
expenditures. The PDP is more expensive than RESA, but the ICR claims that this is more than compensated for by
the other benefits of the former. Maybe – but these other benefits are not quantified.

The project suffered the loss of a million dollars due to the strong revaluation of the peso in 2007. Under this scenario,
unallocated resources were used. The deficit affected the achievement of goals and the ability to support a larger
number of sub-projects. There were financial and administrative lags in the execution of the AF associated with delays
in the allocation of resources to finance the PO by the national government.

The rating on efficiency is modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project achieved its objectives to a
substantial extent. The rating on efficiency is modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
While the risks to sustaining the assets that were built seem modest as indicated in the ICR, the effect on
displacement is riskier. Urban violence seems to have increased in the area. Moreover, the IE indicates that
sustained exposure to the project leads to a deeper impact as opposed to more episodic engagements. Finally, the
ICR doesn’t address the question of whether these effects are to continue beyond the life of the PDP.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The design of the project was derived from two Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs) in Colombia (in the
Magdalena Medio region) and from the EU’s Peace Laboratory Program. The fiduciary and safeguard
arrangements seem to be adequate. The identification of risks and mitigation measures are not discussed in the
ICR. The M&E design was adequate.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Around 18 supervision missions (2005-2012) were conducted by the project team. Supervision was able to
overcome the original implementation issue which led to slow disbursements in the first few years as coordination
issues between national and local efforts were worked out. The team was finding solutions to speed up technical
and financial execution, and also address operational tensions, in particular intensifying the assistance provided to
the PO, and through it to the OU, in order to accelerate the execution at the local level.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Government ownership and commitment to the project development objectives was strong during preparation and
the initial years of implementation. The GOC (DPS and DNP) played a fundamental strategic role in building a
political dialogue with civil society and regional governments. The factors mentioned by the ICR that affected
project implementation in the latter years include: i) changes in the structure of the national team responsible for
the project, and staff turnover and reductions; ii) greater operational burdens and less assistance on the ground;
iii) slowed implementation and disruption in the flow of funds; iv) changes in the financial and technical operational
processes; and v) loss of trust between the DPS and the PO.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The ICR finds that the implementing agencies performed well. Especially noteworthy, given that they were
managing decentralized grants, was their ability to do proper financial management. There was however high
rotation of the technical and financial analysts supporting the project, and delays from the PO in justifying
expenditures. The ICR (p.16) points to the agencies' contribution with additional counterpart funds (some
leveraged from private sector) and human resources, and notes the continuity of the local teams and consistent
supervision of the project at the local level, even during periods in which the flow of funds from the DPS was
interrupted.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project had a well-articulated M&E design. The objectives were clear and the indicators were relevant to the
objectives. Baselines and follow up were designed which facilitated the implementation of a very well done impact
evaluation.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation experience was mixed. The monitoring of inputs and impact evaluation were done well. The most
important lapse was in the failure to gather data on displacement rates which was an important indicator of a major
outcome.

c. M&E Utilization:

The data were used well in the preparation of the ICR. Particularly noteworthy was the use of impact evaluation in
helping to document the achievements of the project.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was classified as a Category B project under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. In addition Natural
Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) were triggered. An
environmental assessment was completed and categories of likely subprojects were risk-rated. The role of different
agencies in dealing with the risks is clearly spelled out in Annex 10 of the project appraisal document. According to
the ICR (page 7), the environmental safeguards including integrated pest management, as well as the indigenous
peoples safeguard, were carried out satisfactorily.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

 The ICR (page 7) reports the external auditors issued unqualified opinion on the project financial statements from
2005 to 2007 and qualified opinions from 2008 to 2011, mainly due to some expenditures incurred by the PO which
were not reported or recorded in a timely manner by the DPS. Other issues included significant delays in signing the
agreements and transferring the funds to the PO, and high rotation of the technical and financial analysts supporting
the project. The overall financial management is assessed as moderately satisfactory by the ICR (page 7). The ICR
does not discuss procurement. The PO procurement audits were tracked as part of the Results Framework and found
to be satisfactory (page v).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory            Moderately             Efficiency is assessed as modest.
                                                       Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant      Continued high rates of violence and
                     Outcome:                                                conflict in the area as well as the lack of
                                                                             clarity of what has happened after
                                                                             project closure seems to be a risk to
                                                                             sustaining the development outcomes,
                                                                             especially displacement.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately       IEG agrees with a moderately
                                                            Satisfactory     satisfactory rating for Government
                                                                             Performance. Performance of
                                                                             Implementing Agencies is rated
                                                                             Satisfactory. The overall Borrower
                                                                             performance is rated moderately
                                                                             satisfactory as per OPCS/IEG
                                                                             harmonized guidelines.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR presents the lessons learned comprehensively. Of those lessons, this review would highlight in
particular:
a)The benefits of having a learning approach to lending. This project benefited immensely from the Learning and
Innovation Loans that tested and evaluated the approach to working with communities.
b)The flexibility of a community driven approach in building assets in conflict areas.
c)The need to address the challenges of working with other levels of government in decentralized projects.
d) The utility of having a soundly designed and implemented impact evaluation of the efficacy of the project.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise, clearly written, and well- argued. Lessons are evidence -based. It could, however, have used
more evidence that was available in the Impact Evaluation documenting the impact and outcomes rather than
focusing on outputs.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
