FILE COPY
Report No. 1029a-SU
Appraisal of a Domestic
Aviation Project Sudan
June 3, 1976
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Sudanese Pound (SE)
US$2.87        =  SE 1.00 (official rate)
US$1.00        =  SE 0.34 (official rate)
US$2.50        =  SE 1.00 (effective rate)
US$1.00        =  Sb 0.40 (effective rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) - 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 2,204 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAD   -  Civil Aviation Department
DME   -  Distance Measuring Equipment
HF    - High Frequency
ISB   -  Individual Side Band
MOD   - Ministry of. Defense
MTC   - Ministry of Transport and Communications
NDB   -  Non-Directional Beacon
ODM   -  Overseas Development Ministry
OPAS  -  Operational Assistance
p.a.  -  per annum
P&T   - Ministry of Posts and Telegraphs
SSB   -  Single Side Band
UK    -  United Kingdom
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
VHF   -  Very High Frequency
VOR   -  Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Radio Range
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ .................. .. .i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  .........................I.................                   1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..             .................... ..........  .       1
A.   Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on
Transport .......................................                  1
B.   The Transport Modes   ..............................                   2
Railways ....................................................      2
Highways    9..  .*............ .......                            3
Inland Waterways.                                                  3
Ports              .                                               3
Pipeline.                                                          3
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination  ............                     4
3.    SUDAN AVIATION  . ............................ .... ........                4
A.   Aviation Policy ......              ............................       4
B.   Aeronautical Administration ....                ..................     5
Sudan Airways . ............   .................... .              5
Civil Aviation Department  ......                                  6
C.   Aviation Infrastructure  ...........                                   7
Airports ...... O*....... .....................................    7
Aeronautical Communications and
Navigational Aids ........................... .                  7
D.   Traffic Forecasts  ....  .          .     .........................    7
Passengers  .........             ...........................      8
Freight .......          .................................         8
Aircraft Movements .....            .......................        9
E.   Additional Aviation Investment Planned  ...........                    9
4.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                     9
A.   Objectives .......................................... 0... ...         9
B.   Description  .....                      ............ ..........    10
C.    Special Requirements of the Project ......-...... .    11
Airport Access at Wau and Port Sudan ..                ....-     11
Electric Power Supply .......    ..................    12
Potable Water Supply  ........            ..  . .. ... ....    12
D.    Cost Estimate and Financing                .      ....... -....    12
E.   Execution ........                        .....                       14
This report was prepared by W.B.R. Zetterstrom (Aviation Engineer),
B. Bostrom (Aviation Economist), S.B. Rollins (Financial Analyst) and
M. Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
F.  Procurement   ..........   ........   ....................  . ......  14
G.  Disbursement   *.**.**.**.**. **. ***.........  .........................  .  14
H.  Ecology .............-..                            15
5.  ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ...... ....................... .....  15
A.  Major  Benefits   .... .......  .  .  .  . .     * . . . .   ............ *.........  .  15
B.  Economic Analysis ........  ................ .....   16
C.  Total  Return  ... .................................  18
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..... ........ ...................    18
A.  General   ........................- ...............    18
B.  Financial Objectives . ...................   19
C.  Financing Plan for CAD ...o ....................   20
D.  Financial Projections ....................   21
Operating Results .. *...*.................   21
Cash Flow ... ......                           22
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .... ...........   24
TABLES
1.  Comparative Air Fares, 1975
2.  Forecast Passengers (Embarking and Disembarking) and Freight at
Project Airports
3.  Forecast Aircraft Traffic
4.  Airport Construction Cost Estimates
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.  Aircraft Operating Costs and Performance Data
7.  Quantified Project Benefits, 1979-98
8.  Estimated Aircraft Cost Savings in 1980
9.  Estimated Passenger Time Savings in 1980
10. Benefits of Navigational Aids and Lighting
11. Economic Rates of Return
12. Civil Aviation Department, Statement of Revenue
13. Civil Aviation Department, Projected Operating Statements
14. Juba Airport, Projected Operating Statements
15. Malakal Airport, Projected Operating Statements
16. Port Sudan Airport, Projected Operating Statements
17. Wau Airport, Projected Operating Statements
18. Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways,
Combined Projected Operating Statements
19. Civil Aviation Department, Base Case, Projected
Operating Statements
20. Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways,
Combined Operating Statements, Base Case
21. Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways,
Comparison of Base Case and Project



22.  Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways,
Financial Internal Rate of Return
23.  Civil Aviation Department, Projected Cash Flow
24.  Civil Aviation Department, Projected Balance Sheets
25.  Civil Aviation Department, Schedule of Selected
Financial Indicators
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
2.   Effects of Existing Infrastructure on Airline Operations
3.   Project Airports:  Current Conditions and Project Works
4.   Additional Aviation Investments Planned by the Government
of Sudan
5.   Airport Maintenance Equipment Provided Under the Project
6.   Project Implementation Schedule
7.   Economic Background of Individual Airports
8.   Financial Assumptions
MAP Aviation Project (IBRD 11871)






SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project comprising:
(i) the construction of two regional airports, at Wau and
Port Sudan, and upgrading of Juba and Malakal Airports;
(ii) supervision of the construction/reconstruction in (i);
(iii) the provision of maintenance and navigational and
communications equipment to the project airports; and
(iv) technical assistance and staff training for the Civil Aviation
Department (CAD).
ii.       The Sudanese Government is attempting to integrate its widely
dispersed southern communities into the economic and social life of the
country by developing a dependable air transport system capable of meeting
domestic transport demands. The Government also wishes to improve the
inadequate airport facilities at Port Sudan, the country's second largest
city. With the exception of Juba, the airports in question have short,
dry weather runways with aeronautical obstructions which limit aircraft
size and takeoff weights and require excessive airport and aircraft
maintenance.
iii.      The project will enable the domestic airline to use its larger, more
efficient and productive aircraft at a higher daily utilization rate, with
correspondingly lower unit costs, and to improve schedule reliability. It
will also provide the equipment required to maintain the project airports.
The technical assistance and staff training element is designed to strengthen
CAD's newly organized airport engineering design and construction unit.
iv.       The proposed US$20 million Bank loan and US$9 million IDA credit
represents about 34% of total project costs (US$86.1 million) or 45% of the
foreign exchange element (US$65 million). The Government will exempt project
items from taxes and duties. The Saudi Fund is expected to finance the airport at
Port Sudan and the Government has undertaken to finance the airport at Juba
as part of its Six-Year Plan for the period commencing July 1, 1977, and may
seek additional foreign exchange from external agencies to help finance this
part of the project. The Government will also meet the cost of the risk
contingency, should it be required, and the local costs of the project.
v.        During negotiations, agreement was reached on CAD financial objec-
tives. For this purpose, CAD was treated as a separate corporation, although
it is a Government department. The financial analysis contained herein re-
flects these objectives and this assumption. The Government will make avail-
able to CAD, which will execute the project, US$35 million at 8-1/2% interest
and about US$38 million as Government equity; US$7.2 million will be in-
ternally generated by CAD. The balance of project costs comprises the risk
contingency, which Government has agreed to provide, if required.



- ii -
vi.      The main project benefits are cost savings to Sudan Airways
from better utilized, more efficient and productive aircraft. Additional
benefits include passenger time savings and foreign exchange income earned
by more reliable communications and navigational aids to foreign aircraft
overflying Sudan. Additional unquantified benefits comprise increased flight
reliability, improved air safety, better inter-regional integration of the
country and increased development potential by facilitating the movement of
essential expertise to previously isolated areas and by helping make possible
production increases of high value perishable commodities through provision
of access to markets. The economic return for the individual project air-
ports, exclusive of passenger time savings, ranges from 12% to 24%, using
either market or shadow prices. However, the individual returns for the
southern airports have limited meaning because the upgrading of any single
airport allows economical use of jet aircraft only if other airports are also
upgraded. The economic return for the project as a whole is 19%.
vii.     Contracts financed under the loan and credit will be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group "Guidelines
for Procurement" after a prequalification screening. Qualified domestic civil
works contractors will be given a 7-1/2% preference on their bids.
viii.     This report is based on economic and engineering studies made by
Brian Colquhoun and Partners (U.K.). It will be the fifth Bank Group
transportation project in Sudan, and the first in aviation.
ix.       Having reached agreement during negotiations with the Government on
the points set out in Chapter 7, the proposed project is suitable for Bank
Group loan in the amount of US$20 million, on intermediate terms at 4.85%
interest, which includes a 4% interest subsidy, for 25 years with a 7-year
grace period, and an IDA credit of US$9 million, on the usual terms.



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Democratic Republic of the Sudan has requested Bank Group
financial assistance in upgrading its air transport system to meet domestic
transport demands more adequately. A suitable project comprises the
construction of two regional airports, at Wau and Port Sudan; the upgrading of
Juba and Malakal Airports; supervision of construction/reconstruction at the
project airports; the provision of maintenance equipment and navigational and
communications equipment to the project airports, and technical assistance and
training to the Civil Aviation Department (CAD).
1.02      This will be the first Bank Group aviation project in Sudan.  Annex
1 gives details of previous Bank Group loans and credits for Sudanese trans-
portation projects (highways and railways). Implementation of Credits 331-SU
(highways) and 457-SU (railways) is proceeding reasonably well, although we
continue to be concerned by the low level of operational efficiency of Sudan
railways. The 1973 railway Credit included funds for the aviation feasibility
study on which this project is based.
1.03      Project cost is estimated at US$86.1 million (net of taxes and
duties), with a US$65 million, or 76%, foreign exchange component. The
project financing plan incorporates a 10% risk contingency due to the absence
of contracting experience in southern Sudan. The proposed Bank Group loan of
US$20 million and IDA credit of US$9 million will cover 45% of the foreign
exchange element. The Saudi Fund is expected to finance the cost of the Port Sudan
airport. The Government will finance the airport at Juba, the local project
costs and the risk contingency, should it be required.
1.04      This report is based on the technical and economic studies pre-
pared by Brian Colquhoun and Partners (UK) and on the findings of a Bank
appraisal mission comprising W.B.R. Zetterstrom (Aviation Engineer),
B. Bostrom (Aviation Economist), and S.B. Rollins (Financial Analyst) which
visited Sudan in April/May 1975. The report has been edited by M. Garcia-Zamor
(Technical Editor).
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on Transport
2.01      Suday is the largest country in Africa, stretching over more than
2.5 million km . This huge area consists of largely uninhibited desert in
the northern third of the country and tropical forests and savannas in
the south. It is traversed from north to south by the Nile River (see Map)



-2-
close to which lives much of the country's 17 million population, which
is growing at a rate of 2% p.a. Per capita income in Sudan is about US$130,
over 50% of which is generated by the public sector. Agriculture dominates
the economy, accounting for over 40% of the gross domestic product and almost
all export earnings. Although economic activity is largely concentrated
within the fertile and well-irrigated 400 km stretch south and east of
Khartoum, the population is widely scattered over the country. Where water
is available, the potential for agricultural production is substantial.
However, the great distances between potential areas of production and con-
sumption and the sparse and poorly connected transport network hinder Sudanese
development.
2.02      The harsh climate and long distances make provision of inexpensive,
efficient and reliable surface transport particularly difficult. While super-
ficially ideal for transportation, the Nile to the north is repeatedly inter-
rupted by unnavigable rapids while to the south the White Nile disappears into
the Sudd, a vast swamp with continually shifting channels. The sparse rail
and road systems, which must cross hot, arid deserts in the north, northeast
and central zones and skirt the Sudd in the south, are oriented for exports
through Port Sudan. In view of the enormous size of the country, its need
for economic integration and development, and the physical and financial
constraints on the development of adequate surface transport, the development
of air transport facilities is especially important. Air transport offers
not only the lowest costs on many routes for passengers and some commodities,
but is frequently also the only practical means of transport.
B. The Transport Modes
Railways
2.03      The railway is the primary transport mode, with road and river
transport serving as feeders to it. It consists of 4,757 km of 1.067 m
gauge, single track line. It is skeletal in nature, emanating from Port
Sudan with connecting points at Khartoum and Sennar and reaching west
and south to Nyala and Wau. The most heavily travelled section is the
desert route between Port Sudan and Khartoum via Atbara (787 km) which
represents only about 17% of the network but accounts for about 60% of
total freight traffic carried. There is a secondary route up-country from
the port via Kassala, and branch lines north to Karima and Wadi Halfa, west
to El Obeid and Nyala, and south to Wau. Revenue-earning freight amounted
to 2.8 million tons in 1970/71 but declined to 2.2 million tons in 1974/75.
The railway has for some time been failing to meet demand, and there was a
backlog of some 300,000 tons of goods in Port Sudan waiting for transport
in January 1976. However, there are good grounds for expecting early
improvements as a result of much new investment and intensive efforts to
improve operational efficiency.



-3-
Highways
2.04      The lack of effective railway capacity has encouraged increased
emphasis on road construction. However, compared with almost any other
country in the world, road density in Sudan is extremely low. Of the 19,000
km of roads and tracks, only about 400 km are paved, mostly near Khartoum.
The 6,000 km of gravel roads are located mainly in the three southern pro-
vinces where laterite material is available, but since construction some 30 to
50 years ago, they have been inadequately maintained and are now in poor
condition. Much of the road network passes over heavy dry soils which are
generally impassable during the rainy season (June-September). Current
investment in roads will add over 1,000 km of paved roads to the network by
1979.
Inland Waterways
2.05      River services, provided by the semi-autonomous River Transport
Corporation under the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), operate
on two stretches of the Nile River system: on the 1,400 km Kosti-Malakal-
Juba section linking central and southern Sudan and the 290 km Karima-
Dongola section in northern Sudan. Three-fourths of the river traffic is
on the former section and nearly all freight moves southward. Kosti is the
freight transfer point between rail and river modes because of navigational
difficulties between Khartoum and Kosti. Due to operational problems and to
the directional imbalance of traffic flows, the services operate at high cost
and in deficit.
Ports
2.06      Port Sudan, on the Red Sea, is Sudan's only important deep-water
seaport. Poor railway service in the port area considerably delays freight
movements, resulting in congestion in the sheds and the open storage areas.
The Government plans to construct a new port at Suakin, some 40 km south,
but it will be some time before facilities are available.
Pipeline
2.07      A pipeline to carry white oils from the refinery at Port Sudan to
Khartoum and to expand refinery capacity is under construction. When it
is completed in 1976, the railway will lose some of its bulk petroleum
traffic, estimated at 600,000 tons in 1977, or 15% of total rail freight
(including an estimated 100,000 tons of aviation fuel). While this will
provide the railway with additional freight capacity between Port Sudan
and Khartoum, it will still have to move substantial volumes of oil, about
300,000 tons in 1977, from Khartoum to the rest of the country.



-4-
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.08      The 1970-75 Development Plan was an uncoordinated listing of
projects proposed by individual ministries and was not based on econo-
mic priorities. Subsequent to its publication, the Government decided
to review and revise the plan annually, but the review mechanism was
handicapped by inadequate planning efforts at the sector level. For
transport, this resulted until late 1973 in a low level of investment in
relation to needs, and this sector became a major bottleneck to economic
activity, especially to plans to increase agricultural production. Since
1973, investment in transportation has expanded rapidly in all modes
and transportation investment has become the largest component in develop-
ment expenditures.
2.09      A recent study developed a master plan for Sudanese transport
development, but much work remains to be done to convert this into a
coherent investment program and to build up the institutional capacity
to carry out an integrated transport investment program (paras. 3.22-.23).
Transportation is certain to figure prominently in the Six-Year Plan (1977-83)
under preparation.
2.10      Transport coordination is not likely to pose an immediate problem.
Except for aviation, which provides an entirely different level of service
from that of surface transportation, most transport services in Sudan are
complementary. The only duplication at present is between Khartoum and
Wad Medani (185 km) where a bitumen road parallels the railway. In future,
however, the need for proper planning and coordination of investments will
increase along with increased demand for transport services.
3. SUDAN AVIATION
A. Aviation Policy
3.01      The Government's aviation policy is aimed at creating a dependable
air transport system with much increased capacity, which will at the same
time allow reduced unit costs. The aim is to draw the nation's widely
dispersed communities into the economic and social life of the country,
facilitate the movement of essential expertise to relatively isolated areas,
encourage the growth of perishable freight traffic and allow rapid distribu-
tion of high value goods. Domestic aviation has been one of the fastest
growing transport modes in Sudan.



- 5 -
B. Aeronautical Administration
3.02      Aviation administration is divided between two ministries.
Sudan Airways comes under the MTC while all other aspects of aviation,
including CAD, are governed by the Ministry of Defense (MOD).
Sudan Airways
3.03      The Government-owned Sudan Airways Corporation was founded
in 1947 primarily to supplement railway services to distant and in-
accessible parts of the country. The airline started operations with
four eight-seat de Havilland Dove aircraft. In its first year of opera-
tion, the fleet carried 1,243 kilos of cargo and 726 passengers, mainly
Government officials. The airline's carrying capacity was considerably
increased shortly thereafter when it acquired a 28-seat Douglas DC-3.
External operations began in 1954 with extensions to Cairo, Entebbe and
Asmara.
3.04      The airline, which has a monopoly in domestic service, is
operated as a commercial enterprise, although the Government can direct
it to provide services regardless of profitability. Until recent years,
the airline operated at a substantial loss but it is now financially
viable as a result of using better aircraft on international flights
and increasing domestic tariffs in 1974. Compared to other countries
at similar developmental levels, Sudan Airways' tariffs are high, almost
twice as high in some cases (Table 1). While long range international
services presently account for more than two-thirds of total revenue,
it is the domestic and regional routes which offer a more promising
basis for the corporation's future. Domestic air transport is expected
to be used increasingly in place of first and second-class passenger
service by rail and river, particularly over long distances.
3.05      Sudan Airways aircraft fleet planning is well advanced.  By
mid-1975 the airline had two Boeing B-707-320C aircraft with wide-body
interiors, five Fokker F-27 and two de Havilland DHC-6 aircraft, all
maintained to required airline operational standards. Two new Boeing
B-737 aircraft were acquired for introduction in late 1975. This
appears to be the optimum choice to serve the total domestic and inter-
national system even though these new aircraft are not ideal to serve
some of the small airports (Annex 2).
3.06      Although utilization of the F-27 aircraft has increased from
4.5 hours per day in 1973 to 5.6 hours in 1975, it is still low, prima-
rily due to the lack of night landing facilities and the length of the
route segments. (Initially, the B-737 will be in service 6.5 hours
per day.) On the other hand, load factors are high, such as between
69% and 82% on routes to the south. However, since these load factors



do not take into account restricted take-off weights imposed by airport
conditions, they do not truly reflect the unsatisfied demand in these
areas, evidenced by long delays in obtaining confirmed flight reserva-
tions. If larger aircraft could be introduced at these airports, this
presently unsatisfied demand would immediately cause a rapid traffic
increase.
3.07      With the introduction of the large jets, Sudan Airways has been
reorganizing to make its operations more efficient. Most of this effort
has been directed toward the technical departments. The airline is receiv-
ing technical assistance in the form of two expatriate experts, in commer-
cial and engineering management, funded by the United Kingdom (UK). In
addition, a financial manager started a two-year assignment in mid-1975.
The UK has also been considering funding two other experts for two years
(an aircraft certification officer and a flight operations officer) and
a decision has probably been reached. Even so, with two types of turbo-prop
aircraft plus two types of large turbo-jet aircraft, the technical staff
is insufficient.
Civil Aviation Department
3.08      Although it is part of the MOD and is partly manned by military
personnel, CAD functions as a civilian government department. Most senior
CAD officials are military officers transferred to a civilian status while
with the Department. All the airport commandants and fire fighting per-
sonnel are specially-assigned military personnel. CAD financing is
detailed in paras. 6.01-.06.
3.09      To upgrade its small outlying airports, the CAD has recently
organized an airport engineering design and construction unit. For large
projects, consultants and contractors are to be engaged, but their work
will be supervised by this new unit. To date, the unit has completed
the reconstruction of Atbara Airport and is now working on New Halfa
Airport, with equipment provided by a loan from the Federal Republic of
Germany. However, additional strengthening is required to make this unit
fully self-sufficient. This is provided for under the project (para. 4.10).
3.10      CAD is also receiving technical assistance funded by the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP). In a new program just under way, the
electronics section will receive four Operational Assistance (OPAS) tech-
nicians. In addition, there are three air traffic control instructors, an
English instructor, an aeronautical visual aids instructor, a chief advisor
and an airport engineering advisor (the latter for only one year). For
training in flight safety, electronic engineering, telecommunications and
air traffic control, 37 fellowships were provided in 1974 and 206
man-months of training are in the new program.



C. Aviation Infrastructure
Airports
3.11      Airports range from the all-weather, 24-hour international jet
airport at Khartoum to a completely unimproved field at Dinder. In between
are airports such as Juba, with a recently overlaid and lengthened asphalt
runway; Malakal, with a rapidly deteriorating 20 year-old asphalt runway;
Geneina, with a partially asphalt sealed sand runway; Port Sudan, with an
unpaved coral runway; Wau, with a laterite and rock runway; and El Obeid, with
a sand runway. All of these except Khartoum and Juba are subject to closing
during seasonal rains because of soft runways.
3.12      Apart from Khartoum, none of the airports have runway edge light-
ing, although Port Sudan and a few others have kerosene flare pots for
emergencies. Electrical equipment has been purchased with a loan from the
Federal Republic of Germany for temporary installation at high priority
domestic airports, but only Khartoum has electronic landing aids, which are
being upgraded with new equipment provided under a UK loan.
3.13      Current conditions at the four project airports are described in
detail in Annex 3.
Aeronautical Communications and Navigational Aids
3.14      There are virtually no aeronautical communications within the
country. Existing equipment is old and seldom works. Most traffic informa-
tion is passed by telephone, if at all. The airline has no other communi-
cation with its outlying stations. In emergencies, CAD passes information
on the Meteorological Department's HF-SSB network. Most of the airports
with scheduled service are equipped with VHF radios for airport control
air/ground communications, but these units have a range of only 50-100 km.
The proposed project provides for the necessary communications equipment
for the project airports (para. 4.09).
3.15      Most of the airports have non-directional radio beacons (NDB) but
the equipment is generally located within the Posts and Telegraphs (P&T)
compound in the town rather than at the airport proper. This equipment
is very old and P&T is no longer willing to maintain it. Under the pro-
posed project, the appropriate navigational equipment will be provided
to the project airports (para. 4.09).
D. Traffic Forecasts
3.16      Air traffic in Sudan has grown relatively rapidly over the past
few years despite seriously constrained domestic services. Thus, from
1968/69 to 1973/74, the number of domestic air passengers more than doubled



-8-
from 52,000 to 107,000 and domestic air cargo increased from 774 tons to
1,296 tons. The most important individual route, Khartoum-Port Sudan,
accounts for 20% of passenger movements followed by airports in the west,
32%, and south, 26%. The four project airports, Port Sudan, Wau, Malakal,
and Juba account for 46% of the domestic passenger flow. Although traffic
forecasts for the domestic airports have been prepared by Sudan Airways
and various consultants, those of the project consultants, Brian Colquhoun
and Partners, are used as the best average indication of traffic flows,
assuming project implementation.
Passengers
3.17      As in other countries where a changeover to jet aircraft has led
to rapid traffic growth, the recently introduced trial weekly all-jet
service to Juba has produced a 20-25% passenger traffic increase compared
with the same period the previous year. The passenger forecasts used in
this report, however, do not depend upon this individual case. They are
based on more general demand factors, on demographic factors (e.g., size
and growth of population and urbanization) and on socio-economic factors
(e.g., level of economic development, inter-community links and travel
substitutes). Further, three groups of travelers were considered sepa-
rately: Sudanese business and government travelers, by far the most
numerous; foreign business travelers; and tourists.
3.18      In addition to normal passenger traffic growth, even without the
project, the introduction of jet services is expected to generate new
traffic and to divert traffic from rail and river modes. 1/ As Table 2
indicates, a 14-18% p.a. growth rate with the project, on a low base, is
estimated through 1980, followed by 10% p.a. or less thereafter. These
estimates are likely to prove conservative in view of other countries'
experience.
Freight
3.19      Air cargo flows are severely constrained by the limited capacity
of aircraft in domestic service, a factor which makes it difficult to
predict future traffic under improved conditions. The freight projections
take into account factors similar to those considered in forecasting
passenger traffic. A distinction has also been made between normal freight
traffic growth and that induced by specific development projects.
1/   Currently, about 2,500 passengers p.a. travel between Khartoum and Wau
(1,000 km) by first or second class rail services and about 9,000 travel
on these classes by river between Kosti, Malakal and Juba. (The distance
between Khartoum and Port Sudan is 665 km; Khartoum-Malakal is 680 km;
and Khartoum-Juba, 1,200 km.)



-9-
3.20      As shown in Table 2, the combined freight traffic at Juba, Malakal,
Wau and Port Sudan is expected to increase threefold by 1980 over 1975 figures
and almost double again by 1985. The average freight traffic growth p.a.
through 1990 is over 10% for Port Sudan and over 15% for each of the other
three airports. Potential large commodity flows include fruit, tobacco and
tea from Juba, fish from Malakal, meat from Wau and a large variety of
manufactured goods from Port Sudan and Khartoum to these southern airports.
Aircraft Movements
3.21      Aircraft movement forecasts are shown in Table 3.  Scheduled ser-
vices are estimated assuming the use of the Boeing B-737 as the primary
aircraft. Other aircraft movements are assumed to follow previous growth
trends.
E. Additional Aviation Investment Planned
3.22      The Government intends to carry out an investment program which
includes procurement and installation of navigational aids and communications
equipment along the country's major air routes and technical assistance to
Sudan Airways to ease its transition to a jet fleet. Such improvements and
assistance are necessary because of safety and efficiency considerations.
Annex 4 details these programs.
3.23      The Italian Government has financed a study of Khartoum's airport
needs over the next twenty years. Although the study concludes that a new
airport should be built, it does not contain a comprehensive economic
analysis. A separate study prepared by the Associates for the Development
of Arab Resources, after a limited analysis, recommends only minor improve-
ments to the existing Khartoum terminal buildings and no major airport work
there for the next ten years. The Government has provided assurances that
the proposed new Khartoum Airport will be subjected to appropriate economic
analysis.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The Sudanese Government is attempting to integrate its widely dis-
persed southern communities into the economic and social life of the country
by developing a dependable air transport system capable of meeting domestic
transport demands. To help meet these demands, the project aims to assist
the Government in developing a system of airports which can handle larger,
more efficient and productive aircraft than at present. The Government also
wishes to improve the inadequate regional airport facilities at Port Sudan,
the country's second largest city, and this is provided for under the project.



- 10 -
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(i) the construction of two new regional airports, at Port
Sudan and Wau; the reconstruction of the runway at Malakal
Airport and the construction of a new terminal building and
related ancillary works at Juba Airport;
(ii)  supervision of construction/reconstruction in (i);
(iii) the provision of maintenance and navigational and communica-
tions equipment to the project airports; and
(iv)  technical assistance and staff training for the CAD.
(i) Airport Construction and Improvements
4.03      Port Sudan and Wau.  A detailed description of existing conditions
at the four project airports and the proposed construction and improvements
is given in Annex 3. The construction at Port Sudan and Wau will include
earthworks, drainage, paved runway, lead-in taxiway, apron, fuel farm, ter-
minal building, control tower, maintenance vehicle shed, electrical vault,
staff housing, airfield lighting, fencing, crash-fire-rescue station, access
and ancillary roads and all necessary utility systems. In addition, the
terminal building at Port Sudan will be designed for international traffic
and a small Haj terminal and apron will be provided for the annual pilgrimage.
4.04      Malakal.  The existing paved runway, taxiway and apron at Malakal
will be reconstructed; the flight trip regraded, access and ancillary roads
repaved; the existing terminal building and control tower renovated; the
existing fuel farm rehabilitated; a new crash-fire-rescue station, maintenance
vehicle shed, electrical vault and sewerage system constructed; new airfield
lighting installed; fencing provided; and all related utilities provided.
4.05      Juba.  The existing terminal area at Juba will be demolished and a
new area constructed consisting of an aircraft apron, international terminal
building, control tower, fuel farm, crash-fire-rescue station, electrical
vault, maintenance vehicle shed, paved access and ancillary roads. In addi-
tion, the flight strip will be regraded, fencing provided, airfield light-
ing installed and all related utilities provided.
(ii) Supervision of Construction/Reconstruction
4.06      The consulting firm which the Government engaged to do technical
and economic studies related to the project, Brian Colquhoun and Partners,
is to prepare the architectural and engineering final design plans and
specifications. This work, which should be substantially completed by
the time the credit is signed, is being partly funded under IDA Credit
457-SU. The balance of the engineering costs will be financed under
the project.



- 11 -
4.07      Supervision of construction will be required through the fiirc
quarter of 1981. For the sake of continuity, it should be desirable that
the present consultants, who are competent, be engaged, and during negotia-
tions the Government stated that this was its intention.
(iii) Provision of Equipment
4.08      Maintenance Equipment.  For the CAD to maintain the project
airports properly, equipment will be required which will have to be
based permanently at each airport because of the long distances between
the airports and poor road conditions. A list of the minimum amount of
equipment required for each airport is shown in Annex 5.
4.09      Navigational and Communications Equipment.  At each of the proj-
ect airports, navigational aid equipment (VOR/DME) will be installed as
approach and enroute aids. New VHF air/ground and HF-ISB point-to-point
voice and teletype communications between the project airports, Khartoum
and other domestic Sudan airports will be installed. This will also
allow communications between Port Sudan and Jeddah/Asmara; between Wau and
Bangui; and between Juba and Entebbe/Nairobi.
(iv) CAD Technical Assistance and Staff Training
4.10      To strengthen the airport engineering design and construction unit
in the CAD (para. 3.09), six experts will be engaged for the following posi-
tions: supervising airport engineer (chief of the unit), civil engineer
(chief of the surveying section), airport engineer and architect (the design
and construction supervision section), electrical/mechanical engineer (chief
of the lighting, navigational aid and standby power section) and aviation
economist (chief of the economic and statistical section). In addition, 10
man-years of training outside Sudan will be provided.
4.11      The CAD will engage accounting consultants to design and implement
a new commercial and cost accounting system for the entire department (para.
6.05).
C. Special Requirements of the Project
Airport Access at Wau and Port Sudan
4.12      The access roads provided for under the project will connect each
airport with the nearest main road. At Wau and Port Sudan, however, the
respective main road requires improvement in order to accommodate airport
traffic. Government plans to improve these roads. During negotiations, it
was agreed that the roads will be improved to all weather standard and that
the work will be completed prior to the commissioning dates of these airports.



- 12 -
Electric Power Supply
4.13      The standby electric power provided for the airports under the
project is only for emergencies during periods of prime power failure.
Prime power will be drawn from the local electrical supply. It was agreed
during negotiations that the capacity of the local power supply will be
sufficient to meet airport needs by the commissioning date of each airport.
Potable Water Supply
4.14      Water for the airports will be drawn from local supplies.  This
will be adequate except for Port Sudan airport. It was agreed during
negotiations that the water supply for Port Sudan will be adequate to meet
airport needs prior to its commissioning.
D. Cost Estimate and Financing
4.15      Total project cost, including contingencies, is US$86.1 million.
The foreign exchange component is US$65 million, 76% of total project cost.
Government has said that it intends to exempt project items from taxes and
duties. The proposed Bank Group loan of US$20 million and IDA credit of US$9
million will finance 45% of the foreign exchange component of the airport
construction costs, including most of the foreign exchange costs of Wau and
Malakal airports, plus the foreign costs of maintenance equipment, design
engineering, accounting consultants and technical assistance and training for
CAD. The Saudi Fund is expected to finance the cost of Port Sudan airport. The
Government has undertaken to finance the Juba airport as part of the Six-Year Plan
commencing July 1, 1977, and may seek additional foreign exchange from exter-
nal agencies to help finance this part of the project. The Government will
also meet the cost of the risk contingency, should it be required, and the
local project costs.
4.16      The cost estimate shown below (in prices expected at the end of June
1976) is categorized by type of work. A detailed itemization of the project
construction contracts by airport is given on page 1 of Table 4, local and
foreign components of these contracts are given on page 2 of that Table.
Total costs by airport are shown on page 3 of Table 4.



- 13 -
Component             (SL thousand)              (US$ thousand)        Percent of
or Item          Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Project Cost
Pavements         3,152   7,954   11,106   7,880  19,885   27,765        34.50
Buildings           787   2,163    2,950   1,968   5,408    7,376         9.16
Roadworks           416   1,158    1,574   1,040   2,895    3,935         4.89
Electrical          287   2,807    3,094       717   7,018    7,735       9.61
Misc. Equipment      19      486      505       48   1,215    1,263        1.57
Subtotal        4,661  14,568   19,229  11,653  36,421   48,074        59.73
Engineering
Supervision
(4% of construc-
tion costs)      157     611       768     393   1,527    1,920        2.38
Contingencies;
Physical          482   1,520    2,002   1,205   3,800    5,005         6.22
Price           2,200   6,836    9,036   5,500  17,090   22,590        28.07
Subtotal    7,500  23,535   31,035  18,751  58,838   77,589         96.40
Maintenance
Equipment          10     130       140       25     325       350      0.43
Design
Engineering        10     280       290       25     700       725      0.90
Accounting
Consultants        20      60        80       50     150       200      0.25
Subtotal    7,540  24,005   31,545  18,851  60,013   78,864         97.98
CAD Technical
Assistance        320     330       650      800     825    1,625       2.02
Total       7,860  24,335   32,195  19,651  60,838   80,489    100.00
Risk Con-
tingency          604   1,648    2,252   1,510   4,120    5,630
GRAND TOTAL   8,464  25,983   34,447  21,161  64,958   86,119
4.17      The cost estimates were developed by the consultants based on
recent construction contracts awarded in Sudan and in the general geograph-
ical area; they are considered reasonable. Land required for this project
belongs to the Government and will be transferred to CAD at no cost.
4.18      An item for physical contingencies amounting to 10% has been in-
cluded in the cost estimate to allow for minor changes in design and scope
of work.  An additional item for price contingencies, amounting to 12%
through 1977 and 10% for 1978 and 1979, has been included to allow for



- 14 -
anticipated increases in labor and material costs. An additional 10%
risk contingency has been included for the three southern airports, in
view of the lack of contracting experience in southern Sudan.
E. Execution
4.19      The project will be executed by CAD.  The civil works contracts for
Wau, Port Sudan and Juba are expected to be awarded first, followed by
Malakal.  The other contracts will be timed to allow for completion of all
contracts at any one airport at the same time. Annex 6 shows the expected
schedule of project implementation. The airport at Juba is expected to be
completed in March 1979 and the other three airports in March 1980. During
the construction phase, approximately 500 persons, ranging from laborers to
highly skilled artisans, will be employed at Wau, and another 500 at Port
Sudan. A smaller number, about 300 each, will be employed at Juba, since
there is no runway to be built, and at Malakal, since only minor work is
required on the terminal buildings.
4.20      CAD will handle all electronic equipment procurement and installa-
tion through contractors, with provision for on-the-job training for CAD
personnel.
4.21      As recorded in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, the Government
and the Association agreed upon a project implementation schedule, as a
reasonable current estimate of project execution (Annex 6).
F. Procurement
4.22      Contracts for civil works (earthworks, paving, drainage, build-
ings, fuel systems, etc.), visual aids, navigational aids, communications
equipment and installation will be awarded through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement"
after a prequalification screening of interested contractors, with par-
ticular attention to the logistics, timing and coordination involved in
these contracts. Qualified local civil works contractors will be allowed
a 7-1/2% preference in the evaluation of their bids.
G. Disbursement
4.23      The IDA credit will be disbursed before the loan, and disbursements
will be made against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of items to be financed,
except for the civil works component. For this latter category, disbursement
will be made against 90% of the foreign exchange cost. Disbursements are



- 15 -
expected to take place from the second quarter of 1977 through the thir-' quar-
ter of 1981. A schedule of quarterly disbursements is shown in Table 5. Any
surplus funds remaining in the loan after project completion will be cancelled.
H. Ecology
4.24      The ecological and environmental effects of the development of
these airports were taken into account during their siting and design. The
existing airports at Wau and Port Sudan are being discarded because of their
proximity to populated areas. Approaching and departing aircraft now pass
over these areas with attendant noise,-fumes and safety problems. The new
locations, and those of the other two airports, place the approach and depar-
ture paths away from the population centers. In Wau, the land that will
become available is worth as much to agriculture as that to be taken, while in
Port Sudan, the land at either site is non-productive. However, at both
towns, it is possible that the existing sites might be used for future
town development because of their proximity to the town centers. At each of
the four airports, drainage of the area will be improved, the possibility of
stagnant pools will be eliminated and the existing open sewerage will be
replaced with modern sanitary systems.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Major Benefits
5.01      In Sudan the need for air transport is reinforced by the extremely
low density of the road network and the physical constraints on rail and
river transport. For many years to come, air transport can offer not only
the lowest costs on many routes for passengers and selected freight commodi-
ties, but also the only practical means of travel. In time the other modes
will improve, but air transport will remain essential, especially for long
distance passenger movements. In particular, the integration of the south-
ern Sudan with the rest of the country, and the area's economic development,
demands better and faster links with the north that only air transport can
offer. Further, the air service between the country's two largest cities,
Khartoum and Port Sudan, will continue to be the only practical link for
passengers for some time. The economic background of each project airport
is detailed in Annex 7.
5.02      The major source of quantifiable benefits for the project airports
is the much lower operating cost of Sudan Airways' more efficient jet air-
craft compared with the propeller-driven fleet now in service at these air-
ports. In addition, present aircraft utilization is low, due partly to the
absence of night landing aids, the provision of which under the project will
further reduce the jet operating costs. Present load factors are so high
(para. 3.06) that services do not meet current demand, and it is not possible
to satisfy this demand at reasonable cost by adding more propeller aircraft.



- 16 -
After the introduction of faster, larger and better utilized jet aircraft,
passengers will not only gain time from a faster flight but, more import-
antly, will be able to travel without excessive waiting for available space.
This is also important for perishable or otherwise valuable air cargo. Des-
pite the lower load factors involved in making this service improvement
possible, the better utilization of more economical aircraft will lead to
lower costs per passenger-mile and per ton-mile and will much improve the
financial position of Sudan Airways.
5.03      The unquantified benefits of the project include increased flight
reliability, improved air safety, better inter-regional integration of the
country and increased development potential. The two last-mentioned bene-
fits will accrue to the areas of influence of the three southern airports
(Juba, Malakal and Wau) more than to Port Sudan because the isolation of
the three southern cities has constrained their development. Substantially
decreased air transport costs and improved availability will facilitate the
movement of essential expertise to previously isolated areas and help make
possible potential production increases of high value commodities by providing
access to markets for perishable foods. For example, in Bahr el Ghazal
Province (Wau), cattle raising is a dominant activity. There is a good
potential for meat export from the region in view of a growing demand from the
Middle East and rising world market prices, but the potential cannot presently
be exploited because of transport's restricted availability and high cost.
The Upper Nile Province (Malakal) also produces livestock but has similar
transport problems. Another important commodity in this area is fish, which
is now transported dry. Airlifting, combined with a relatively limited
investment in refrigeration facilities, would allow the sale of high value
frozen, rather than low value dry fish. Also, Equatoria Province (Juba) grows
fruits and has good prospects for tobacco and tea export. Tobacco shipments,
using trial jet flights, have already begun. With big game reserves, national
parks and abundant game, the area also has tourist potential. All these
developments depend on the provision of adequate, reliable and rapid long
distance transport.
B. Economic Analysis
5.04      Given that air transport is clearly essential to country-wide
development in Sudan, the economic case for the project depends on its
ability to provide increased transport capacity more efficiently and at
lower cost than the existing constrained air services, which constitute
the "base case" (i.e., use of F-27 services with high load factors). In
making this comparison, the quantified benefits are:
(i) reduction of transport costs from the use of more
efficient aircraft;
(ii) time savings from faster air service; and



- 17 -
(iii) increased aircraft utilization and overflight
fees from improved airport lighting and navi-
gational aids.
The construction costs, including a physical contingency, have been
included as an economic cost of the project. From this amount about
SE 0.5 million has been excluded for each of the three airports in the
south for necessary safety items and some deferred maintenance required
for continued operation of existing aircraft. (There have been about
70 serious accidents in Sudan over the last 15 years, including 43 during
takeoff or landing.)
(i) Reduction of Transport Costs
5.05      The most important of the quantified benefits is the savings
in aircraft operating costs per passenger or per ton carried (Tables 6 and 7).
This has been estimated by comparing the direct operating cost for existing
aircraft under current operating conditions at the existing airports with
the costs of Sudan Airways' new, more efficient jet aircraft that will be
accommodated at the project airports. The comparison was made for each
airport separately, as well as for the three southern airports as a subsystem.
5.06      Transport cost savings over each route were calculated based on
the unit cost differential, including aircraft depreciation, between B-737
services and the current F-27. This differential was about SE 0.025 per
passenger mile, amounting to a cost reduction of about SE 1.96 million in
1980. About 80% of this is foreign exchange (Tables 7 and 8).
(ii) Time Savings
5.07      Since long waiting times for available airline seats cannot be
quantified with any accuracy, only the actual gain in scheduled flight time,
comparing the base case with the use of the new aircraft, has been calcu-
lated. Of the passenger traffic shown in Table 2, over 80% is Sudanese
business travel, more than half of which is for government travel. A
salary rate of SE 1.00 per hour of working time, at 1975 prices (growing
at 2% p.a. in real terms), has been assumed. The substantial time savings
are shown in Tables 7 and 9 for the years 1979-98. Estimated passenger
time savings from improved air travel will be about SE 190,000 in 1980.
5.08      Personal time savings are underestimated since time savings for air
travel compared to surface travel for traffic diverted from other modes is
not taken into account. Analysis of present aircraft payload constraints
and other limitations indicates that this traffic will be equivalent to one
year's normal air traffic growth at current rates, or about 10% of the
total. (The alternative to air transport from Khartoum to Malakal takes



- 18 -
four days, ten days to Juba by train and river steamer and at least three
days to Wau by train. In practice, actual passenger travel times are
considerably longer because of frequent delays.)
(iii) Increased Aircraft Utilization and Overflight Fees
5.09      Without considering the effects of improved airport lighting and
navigational aids, the other airport improvements under the project result
in improved aircraft utilization, increasing from 2,000 to 2,500 hours
per year, due to more flexible aircraft operations. However, the improved
airport lighting and navigational aids will also permit operations under
difficult weather conditions and at night. The addition of lighting will
increase aircraft utilization to meet current demands, from 2,500 to about
3,000 hours per year (Tables 6 and 10), which will postpone the need for
further aircraft accordingly.
5.10      New navigational aids will benefit overflying foreign aircraft
as well as Sudanese aircraft and will earn foreign exchange revenue for
CAD. The use of Port Sudan as an alternate for Khartoum Airport for some
international flights will also earn foreign exchange revenue from foreign
airlines. The incremental effect of these benefits is estimated at St 238,000
p.a. by 1980 (Table 10).
C. Total Return
5.11      Excluding passenger time savings, the estimated economic return for
the total project is almost 18%. For the three southern airports, the
return is 15%, and 22% for Port Sudan. The corresponding return for airport
lighting and navigational aids is 16%. If passenger time savings are included,
the economic return for the total project is 19%; 17% for the southern air-
ports and 24% for Port Sudan (Table 11). All these estimates are based on
shadow pricing of foreign exchange. However, since this is reflected in both
the costs and benefits, the overall effect is negligible compared to use of
market prices.
5.12      The results of a sensitivity analysis undertaken for all the project
airports, both individually and as a group, are shown in Table 11. Cost in-
creases are considered the major risk. However, even if costs increase by
15%, the economic return for the project is still a satisfactory 17%.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
6.01      CAD operates under a budgetary control system whereby a compre-
hensive budget of anticipated revenues and operating expenses is prepared
each year. The Department must stay within this budget unless given Govern-
ment approval to exceed the projected expenditures.



- 19 -
6.02      CAD maintains control over revenues and operating expenses.  I ees
are collected and deposited in the Treasury and-che4s fat payments are
drawn against the Treasury. Any excess of reventies over expenditures remains
with the Central Government.
6.03      Accounting records of revenue and expenditure items are kept at CAD
headquarters.  Inter-departmental charges not involving cash transactions are
billed to CAD at rather erratic intervals making the preparation of current
operating statements difficult. The records are not maintained on an indivi-
dual airport basis but for the system in total. However, the mission was able
to obtain a breakdown of revenues and expenses for the project airports and
Khartoum for FY1974.
6.04      Capital items are supplied directly by the Central Government so
they are not included in the accounts of CAD. Hence, no provision for depre-
ciation and no charge for interest is included in the accounts. As the capital
assets are not recorded, CAD does not prepare an annual balance sheet. The
mission prepared a balance sheet as of June 30, 1975, by having a physical
inventory compiled of all existing assets, together with the date they entered
service. No value was assigned to assets whose age was beyond that normally
considered the economic life for such items. A high percentage of the assets
are in this category and should be replaced in the immediate future. Pro-
vision for these replacements has been made in an orderly and realistic manner
in the projections.
6.05      The accounting system is inadequate and during negotiations it was
agreed to replace it with one designed to supply information by airport and by
classifications necessary to formulate and review user charges. It will also
include provision for the acquisition and disposal of capital assets. This
was discussed with CAD management and the Central Government. Consultant
services to design and implement a new accounting system for CAD no later
than July 1, 1977, were agreed to during negotiations and are provided for
under the project. An outline of the terms of reference for the account-
ing consultants was also agreed to during negotiations and is recorded in
a Memorandum of Understanding.
6.06      The accounts are currently subject to annual audit by the Auditor
General. During negotiations, it was agreed that certified copies of
the audited annual accounts be furnished to the Bank Group not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year of CAD.
B. Financial Objectives
6.07      Government policy has been that CAD's tariffs are to be maintained
in real terms so that earned revenues cover at least cash operating expenses
and contribute towards depreciation. This excess of revenues over cash
operating expenses has been retained by the Government and could be con-
sidered a contribution towards the acquisition of capital assets. During
negotiations, understandings were reached with the Government on more specific



- 20 -
financial objectives for CAD, resembling those of prudently managed, indepen-
dent public corporations. The financial projections contained in the follow-
ing paragraphs reflect these objectives.
6.08      CAD revised its tariff schedule effective July 1, 1975, and these
rates have been used in all projections in this report. In addition, higher
overflight, navigation and landing fees have been assumed for FY1981 when the
project is completed. The increases used in these projections are 45% for
overflight, 20% for navigational fees and 30% for local B-737 landing fees and
10% for all other landing fees. During negotiations, it was agreed that,
depending on conditions prevailing at that time, such adjustments to tariffs
as are necessary will be applied in order to produce, from 1983 onward,
sufficient revenues for CAD to cover all operating expenses plus debt service
or depreciation, whichever is the greater.
C. Financing Plan for CAD
6.09      The total cost of the project (excluding the risk contingency) is
estimated to be SE 32.195 million (para. 4.16). In the Agreed Minutes of
Negotiations, the Government considered as reasonable a debt/equity ratio on
the average of 50:50 for all investment funds. Accordingly approximately 50%
of the financing will be made available at 8-1/2 interest from the Government
to CAD for a term of 25 years with a grace period of four years. The balance
will be equity and internally generated funds as follows:
S o'000                US$'000
(i)   Government Interest-        14,000                  35,000
bearing Funds
(ii)   Government Equity           15,330                   38,325
(iii)   Internally generated         2,865                    7,164
Total          32,195                  80,489
If a risk contingency of 10% is applied to the three southern airports of
Juba, Malakal and Wau, the project costs would be increased by SE 2.25 million
(US$5.63 million). These additional funds will have to be provided by the
Government either in the form of additional equity, or by loan in which case
tariffs will have to be raised accordingly.



- 21 -
D. Financial Projections
Operating Results
6.10      CAD operating revenues by category are set out in Table 12 and the
projected operating statements are given in Table 13. Financial assumptions
are detailed in Annex 8. Summarized forecast results for 1976, 1980, 1985
and 1990 are:
1976    1980      1985       1990
----------- SE thousand --------
Revenue                            1,855   2,496    5,019        8,216
Expenses                           1,135   1,277    1,589        1,664
Operating surplus               720   1,219    3,430       6,552
Depreciation                         424   1,037    2,626        2,648
Operating income                296      182       804     3,904
Interest                              -       -       1,276      1,062
Net profit (loss)               296      182      (472)    2,842
Throughout the projection period, revenues cover all working expenses, includ-
ing depreciation, with the exception of 1981-83. This is because three of
the four project airports are completed by 1981 and the increase in the
depreciation provision is not immediately compensated by a comparable traffic
increase. For FY1983, the suggested tariffs used in these projections fall
short by SE7 51,000 of covering the greater of debt service or deprecia-
tion but for all other years the financial objectives are met (para. 6.08).
6.11      The projected operating results of the four project airports are
set out in Tables 14, 15, 16, 17. Only Port Sudan and Malakal develop suffi-
cient traffic to generate revenue greater than operating expenses, before
depreciation, but not until 1990 and 1989, respectively. The remaining two
airports do not cover cash operating expenses at any time. However, non-
project airports receive increased revenues in the form of increased landing
and navigation fees, as a result of the project.
6.12      To show the total domestic aviation situation, the combined operat-
ing statements of CAD and Sudan Airways are given in Table 18. For this
presentation, transfer payments between the two entities have been eliminated.
Thus, CAD revenue includes only fees earned from foreign carriers and from
passenger tax. A summary for 1976, 1980, 1985 and 1990 is given below:



- 22 -
1976     1980       1985       1990
------------ SE thousand ---------
Combined revenues            6,239    8,879       13,801    20,711
Combined expenses            4,334    5,218        6,954     8,966
Operating surplus       1,905    3,661       6,847    11,745
Depreciation                   718    1,271        3,094     3,350
Operating income        1,187    2,390       3,753      8,395
6.13      To assess the impact of the proposed project on Sudan's domestic
aviation, a base case, without the project, is presented in Table 19 for
CAD.  It includes only minimal improvements to Wau and Malakal airports in
the amounts of SE 690,000 and SL 499,000, respectively. The base case for
Juba requires SE 1.793 million, mainly for earthworks, to accommodate the
jet aircraft Sudan Airways is now using. Table 20 sets out the combined
base case of CAD and Sudan Airways.
6.14      A comparison of the operating results of the base case and the
proposed project is shown in Table 21. The incremental profits earned by
the project are shown both before and after providing for depreciation.
In total the project will earn an additional SE 35,831 million over the
base case before depreciation for the projection period and SE 17,472
million after depreciation.
6.15      The overall financial internal rate of return is about 10%.
Details of the calculation are contained in Table 22. The capital costs
used are the financial costs which include a price contingency of 27%. The
financial benefits, on the other hand, are calculated using a constant 1975
monetary unit. If the price contingency were excluded from the capital
costs, the rate of return would be 16%.
Cash Flow
6.16      A projected cash flow for CAD, based on the assumptions contained
in para. 6.09, is shown in Table 23. Provision has been made for the replace-
ment of assets included in the project, when required, and for the addition
of other necessary items (para. 6.04). A summary of the cash flow for the
construction period is set out below:



- 23-
1976   1977   198       197     1980    1981
--- SL , thosAnd  ----------
Sources of Funds
From operations           605   824    978    1,092   1,204   1,913
Loans                      -    766  4,541    8,693        -         -
Equity                    436    -      983    3,059   8,423   2,429
Total             1,041 1,590  6,502   12,844   9,627   4,342
Use of Funds
Capital investments /1 1,041 1,525  6,567   12,844   9,627   2,641
Loans - Principal          -       -     -         -         -       307
Interest          -       -     -         -         -    1,394
Total             1,041 1,525  6,567   12,844   9,627   4,342
Cash surplus (deficit)  -         65  (  65)      -         -        -
Opening balance           -       -      65       -         -        -
Closing balance    -        65    -          -        -        -
/1   Includes items in addition to the proposed project.
6.17      The projected balance sheets are shown in Table 24 for the years
1976 to 1990. The balance sheet as of June 30, 1975, is set out below,
subject to the limitations in para. 6.04.
Assets                                  SL thousand
Runways and buildings                                   3,801
Electrical equipment                                      449
Airport equipment                                       1,054
5,304
Less accumulated depreciation                             502
Total Assets                                      4,802
Capital
Invested                                               4,185
Retained earnings                                         617
Total Capital                               4,802



- 24 -
The retained earnings are for the fiscal years 1974 and 1975 only. The
annual rate of return on net fixed assets in use after completion of
construction does not become positive until 1984 (about 1%) but then
improves rapidly to 1990, the end of the projection period (about 21%).
A schedule of selected financial indicators is set out in Table 25.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following matters:
(i) consultants for supervision (para. 4.07);
(ii)  improving the main roads from Wau and Port Sudan leading
to the airport access roads up to all weather standard
(para. 4.12);
(iii)  improving the electricity services provided for the four
airports before each is commissioned (para. 4.13);
(iv)  insuring an adequate water supply to the Port Sudan
airport (para. 4.14);
(v) outline terms of reference for accounting consultants
(para. 6.05);
(vi)  annual auditing of CAD (para. 6.06);
(vii)  financial objectives for the CAD (paras. 6.07-.08).
7.02      Assurances have also been received concerning proposed invest-
ment in Khartoum Airport (para. 3.23).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$20 million, on intermediate terms at 4.85% interest, which in-
cludes a 4% interest subsidy, for a term of 25 years including a 7-year
grace period, and an IDA credit of US$9 million.
June 3, 1976



TABLE 1
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Comparative Air Fares, 1975
US$
Route                         Distance               US$               Per Mile
Sudan
Juba - Khartoum                   745               145.36               .195
Malakal - Khartoum                423                85.81               .203
Wau - Khartoum                    626               122.98                .196
Port Sudan - Khartoum             413                85.53               .207
Kenya
Nairobi - Mombasa                 263                40.6                 .154
Algeria
Algiers - Bechar                  469                38.92                .083
Algiers - Ghardaia                301                24.85                .083
Egypt
Cairo - Luxor                     317                36.53                .115
India
Bombay - Delhi                    708                60.5                 .085
Bombay - Calcutta               1,035                82.5                 .080
Bombay - Madras                   644                57.1                 .089
Iran
Teheran - Isfahan                 213                24.84                .117
Teheran - Mashad                  467                39.22                .084
Teheran - Shiraz                  432                44.44                .103
Zaire
Kinshasa - Kisangani              753               106.44                .141
Kinshasa - Lubumbashi             965               124.16                .129
Ethiopia
Addis Ababa - Asmara              437                62.10                .142
Addis Ababa - Diredawa            214                 33.00               .154
Source: Official Airline Guide, November 1975.
June 1976



TABLE 2
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Forecast Passengers (Embarking and Disembarking) and Freight
at Project Airports 1/
Airport                                     Passengers
Percent
Average Anmual
Growth
1975       1980        1985         1590      1975-1990
Juba                  22,550      51,000       77,500     123,000         12
Malakal               11,375      22,575       34,O     51,500         11
Port Sudan 2           47,700     90,550      140,600     220,000         11
Wau                    10,375     20,725       31,000      47,500         11
Airport                                       Freight
(tons)
Percent
Average Annual
Growth
1975       1980         1985        1990      1975-1990
Juba                   219.0         750       1,600       2,900          19
Malakal                110.2         350         700        1,20C         17
Port S%dan             328.8         750       1,150       1,650          11
Wall                   106.7        350          650       1,100          17
Total            764.7      2,200        4,100        6,850
1/  Includes total scheduled Sudan Airways and foreign airline flights.
2/ Includes Haj traffic.
Source:  Brian Colquhoun and Partners Report and IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 3
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Forecast Aircraft Traffic
Annual Landings
1           lg 1980      1985         1990
Juba
Scheduled Domestic!'             312          416         624          936
Scheduled International           52           52          52           52
Other                            463          616         819        1,089
Malakal
Scheduled Domesticl/             146           572      1,092        1,716
Other                             366          395        427           461
Port Sudan
Scheduled Domestic!-/              520         468-I/    780         1,196
Scheduled International           208          156        156           260
Other                              782         931      1,108        l,319
lTau
Scheduled Domesticl/              312          208!'    260            416
Other                             179          254        361          513
_/  Based on passenger and cargo growth and on changes from
F-27 to B-737 aircraft.
2/ B-737 replacing the smaller F-27.
Source: Brian Colquhoun and Partners Report and IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 4
Page 1
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Airport Construction Cost Estimates
(SL thousand at June 30, 1976 Prices)
Description                             Juba         Malakal       Port Sudan        Wau
Pavements
Earthworks                          362.43          223.58         185.00       749.39
Runway and Shoulders                579.39        2,674.20       1,471.08    1,751.11
Taxiway and. Shoulders              233.27          286.56         172.24       145.61
Apron and Shoulders                 580.65          681.82         417.21       400.44
Runway daylight markings              2.51            6.18           5.11         5.01
Drainage                             22.57           43.23          44.65        62.77
Subtotal                1,780.82        3,915.57       2,295.29    3,114.33
Buildings and Ancillary Works
Terminal building                   739.12           51.56         651.84       259.73
Cargo building                       36.12            -             30.14        36.39
Fire crash and rescue building       44.54           46.53          40.20        47.67
Generator building                   10.83            9.43          10.04         8.78
Motor transport building             25.27           21.38          21.35        18.82
Water supply                         65.00           54.08         216.02       114.18
Sewerage                             43.33           84.27          33.92        43.91
Pilgrim terminal                      -               -            145.69         -
Demolition            1/
Veterinary building-               36.12            -              -
Terminal and other buildings        3.61            -              -            -
Subtotal                1,003.94          267.25       1,149.20       529.48
Roadworks and Fencing
Main access road                    158.94           22.48         286.89        65.57
Internal roads and car parks        178.96          104.89         112.00        92.07
Fencing                              57.57          139.87         222.72       132.42
Subtotal                  395.47          267.24         621.61       290.06
Electrical Services
Airfield lighting                   317.59          230.05         246.99       209.52
Power generation & distribution   198.02            120.81         219.97       131.11
Navigation aids                     137.59          140.08         231.55        70.70
Telecommunications                  159.44          183.78         100.34       154.26
Air conditioning                      -               -            241.84         -
Subtotal                  812.64          674.72       1,040.69       565.59
Equipment
Fire crash and rescue            . 104.96           104.86         103.72       104.95
Motor transport                      20.74           18.12           28.52        16.84
Meteorological                        1.30            -               -            1.30
Subtotal                  127.00          122.98          132.24       123.09
Total                             4,119.87        5,247.76       5,239.03    4,622.55
1/ Includes replacement.



TABLE 4
Page 2
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Airport Construction Cost Estimates
(SE thousand at June 30, 1976 Prices)
Local     Foreign
Description               Material      Labor       Plant       Total      Element    Element
Juba
Pavements                377.31      339.37   1,064.14   1,780.82        484.55   1,296.27
Buildings and
ancillary works        543.27      259.54      201.13   1,003.94       277.41      726.53
Roadworks and fencing   142.16        73.82      179.49      395.47       113.65     281.82
Electrical services      586.82      130.72       95.10      812.64        75.29     737.35
Equipment                125.86        1.14        -         127.00         4.79     122.21
Total - Juba       1,775.42      804.59   1,539.86   4,119.87        955.69   3,164.18
Malakal
Pavements              1,265.82      632.91   2,016.84   3,915.57    1,501.18   2,414.39
Buildings and
ancillary works        143.99       61.86       61.40      267.25        67.19     200.06
Roadworks and fencing   139.89        49.59       77.76      267.24        81.02     186.22
Electrical services      481.87      111.31       81.54      674.72        64.88     609.84
Equipment                122.98        -           -         122.98         5.48     117.50
Total - Malakal   2,154.55       855.67   2,237.54   5,247.76    1,719.75   3,528.01
Port Sudan
Pavements                336.71      490.35   1,468.23   2,295.29         339.62   1,955.67
Buildings and
ancillary works        605.14      288.43      255.63   1,149.20       300.31      848.89
Roadworks and fencing   270.26       125.21      226.14      621.61       154.03     467.58
Electrical services      748.33      185.73      106.63   1,040.69         93.15     947.54
Equipment                132.24        -           -         132.24         4.53      127.71
Total-Port Sudan  2,092.68   1,089.72   2,056.63   5,239.03          891.64   4,347.39
Wau
Pavements                777.04      603.19   1,734.10   3,114.33         826.16   2,288.17
Buildings and
ancillary works        293.94      129.09      106.45      529.48       142.20     387.28
Roadworks and fencing   130.13        79.31       80.62      290.06        67.18      222.88
Electrical services      408.36       90.70       66.53      565.59        53.63      511.96
Equipment                121.41        1.68        -         123.09         4.80      118.29
Total - Wau        1,730.88      903.97   1,987.70   4,622.55    1,093.97   3,528.58
Total Project            7,753.53   3,653.95   7,821.73  19,229.21    4,661.05  14,568.16



TABLE 4
Page 3
SUDAN
jWPRAISAL OF A DOX S'1C AVIATION PROJECg
Airprt Construction Cost EstitatEs         X
(SE thousand at June 30, 1976 Prices)
Local        Foreign        Total
Juba
Construction                                  955.69       3,164.18    4,119.87
Engineering Supervision                        38.23         126.56       164.79
Contingencies:
Physical - 10%                        99.39         329.07       428.46
Price - 12% and 10%                  363.64       1,213.60    1,577.24
Total - Juba  SE             1,456.95      _4833.41    6,290.36
US$           3,642.38      12,083.52   15,725.90
Malakal
Construction                                1,719.75       3,528.01    5,247.76
Engineering Supervision                        42.18         167.58       209.76
Contingencies:
Physical - 10%                       176.70         371.64       548.34
Price - 12% and 10%                  889.20       1,863.90    2,753.10
Total - Malakal  SE          2,827.83       5,931.13    8,758.96
US$       7,069.58      14,827.82   21,97.40
Port Sudan
Construction                                  891.64       4,347.39    5,239.03
Engineering Supervision                        41.04         167.58       208.62
Contingencies:
Physical - 10%                        93.48         451.44       544.92
Price - 12% and 10%                  437.76       2,093.04    2,530.80
Total - Port Sudan  Sb       1,463.92       7,059.45    8,523.37
US$    3,659.80      17,648.63   21,308.43
Wau
Construction                                1,093.97       3,528.58    4,622.55
Engineering Supervision                        35.34         149.34       184.68
Contingencies:
Physical - 10%                       112.93         367.79       480.72
Price - 12% and 10%                  509.58       1,665.54    2,175.12
Total - Wau  SL              1,751.82       5.711.25    7,463.07
US$            4,379.55      14,278.13   _657.68
Total Project                Sb             7,500.52      23,535.24   31,035.76
US$           18,51.31       58,838.10   77,589.41
Source: Brian Colquhoun and Partners' Report and IBRD mission
June 1976



TABLE 5
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                                at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1976/77
June 30, 1977                                                              650
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                                       1,400
December 31, 1977                                                        1,700
March 31, 1978                                                           2,250
June 30, 1978                                                            2,950
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                                       5,000
December 31, 1978                                                        6,600
March 31, 1979                                                           9,000
June 30, 1979                                                           11,900
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                      15,500
December 31, 1979                                                       19,100
March 31, 1980                                                          22,300
June 30, 1980                                                           25,800
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                                      25,800
December 31, 1980                                                       25,800
March 31, 1981                                                          25,800
June 30, 1981                                                           25,800
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                                      29,000
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 6
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Aircraft Operating Costs and Performance Data
Boeing          Fokker          Twin
Direct Operating Costs             737-200           F27           Otter
CSL, using a rate of SE 1.00   US$2.05)
Per block hour (including
aircraft.depreciation)           600.0           215.0           110.0
Per seat mile                        0.0211          0.0434          0.0524
Per passenger mile                   0.0351          0.0603          0.0728
Per ton mile available              0.1770           0.3525          0.4622
Per ton mile used (60% load
factor)                           0.2950           0.5875          0.7703
Performance Data
Block speed (miles per hour)       300             165             140
Passenger seats                     95              30              15
Seat miles per block hour      28,500           4,950            2,100
Passenger load factor               60%             72%             72%
Maximum ton payload                 11.3             3.7             1.7
Ton miles per block hour        3,390              610             238
Hours used per year (before
provision of night
flying facilities)            2,500            2,000          1,200
Source: Brian Colquhoun and Partners, CAB Aircraft Operating Cost and
Performance Report, Vol. IX July 1975, Sudan Airways Operations
Manual.
June 1976



TABLE 7
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Quantified Proj ect Benefits, 1979_98
(SL thousand)
Aircraft           Passenger             Net
Cost              Time              Benefits
Year         Redaction          Savings          from Navaids          TOTAL
1979             984               140                 189             1,313
1980           1,962               190                 238             2,390
1981           2,182               211                 272             2,665
1982           2,429               234                 310             2,973
1983           2,702               259                 350             3,311
1984           3,010               287                 395             3,692-
1985           3,351               318                 444             4,1U3
1986           3,704                452                490             4,646
1987           4,098               390                51              5,029
1988           4,528               432                 596             5,556
1989           5,oo6               478                 655             6,139
1990           5,535               530                 718             6,783
1991           6,088               587                 787             7,1462
1992           6,697               650                  1/             7,347
1993           7,366               720                                 8,086
1994           8,104                798                                8,902
1995           8,913               884                                 9,797
1996           9,804               979                                10,783
1997          10,787             1,085                                11,872
1998          11,869             1,202                                13,071
./ Navaids have a lifetime of 13 years
Source:  IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 8
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Estimated Aircraft Cost Savings in 1980
Passengers                        Saving Per           Cost
Route                Both Ways        Distance         Passenger 1/        Saving
(miles)           (Si)               (SL)
Passenger/Cargo Flights
Juba - Khartoum             40,000             745               18.77           750,800
Malakal - Khartoum          15,700             423               10.66           167,362
Malakal - Juba                4,700            324                8.16            38,352
Port Sudan - Khartoum       57,800             413               10.41           601,698
Port Sudan - Cairo            3,700            815               20.54            75,998
Port Sudan - Jeddah           9,350            185                4.66            43,571
Wau - Khartoum              14,950             626               15.77           235,761
Wau - Juba                    3,600            318                8.01            28,836
Wau - Malakal                 1,850            281                7.08            13,098
Saving Per            Cost
Route                  Tons            Distance           Mile               Saving
(miles)            (SLh)              (SE)
Cargo Flights
Wau - Khartoum               36.7              626                 .2925           6,719
Total Cost Saving                                                              1,962,195
I/  Sg  0.0252 per passenger mile, i.e., 0.0603 less 0.0351 (Table 6).
Source: Brian Colquhoun and Partners Report and IBRD Mission
June 1976



TADaN i 
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Estimated Passenger Time Savings in 1980
Passengers                 Time Saving       Hours
Route               both Ways      Distance   per Passenger       Saved
(miles)       (hours)
Passenger/Cargo Flights
Juba - Khartoum                40,000        745          2.032         81,280
Malakal - Khartoum             15,700         423          1.154        18,118
Malakal - Juba                  4,700         324         0.884          4,155
Port Sudan - Khartoum          57,800         413         1.126         65,083
Port Sudan - Cairo              3,700         815         2.222          8,221
Port Sudan - Jeddah             9,350         185         0.504          4,712
Wau - Khartoum                 14,950         626         1.707         25,520
Wau - Juba                      3,600         318         0.867          3,121
Wau - Malakal                   1,850         281         0.766          1,417
Total:                                             211,627
Value of
Hours Saved   Working Time Saved  Time Savings
(hours)             (SE)
211,627 x 0.8  =  169,302 x 1.125  =  190,465
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 10
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Benefits of Navigational Aids and Lighting
(SE thousand)
Increased        Increased
Aircraft        Overflight        Operating           Net
Year           Utilization           Fees            Cost            Benefit
1979               261               82               154              189
1980               30.6              86               154              238
1981               336               90               154              272
1982               369               95               154              310
1983               404              100               154              350
1984               444              105               154              395
1985               488              110               154              444
1986               528              116               154              490
1987               573              122               154              541
1988               622              128               154              596
1989               675              134               154              655
1990               731              141               154              718
1991               793              148               154              787
Sample Calculation of Increased Aircraft Utilization, 1980
SE3
Revenue: The revenue per passenger-mile is
SE 0.0603, which converts to
revenue per block hour (28,500 seat
miles = 17,000 passenger-miles per
block hour; Table 6). Thus,
revenue per 500 block hours =               515,500
less
Costs:    500 hours times (direct operating
costs, SE 600, minus aircraft
depreciation and insurance, SE 180) =      -210,000
Net Revenue:                                           305,500
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 11
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
First
Best    Construction Costs              Benefits        Year
Estimate     -15%       +15%         -25_        +25%    Return
Port Sudan                24          26        21           19         27         16
South Sudan Airports      17         19         15           13         20         12
Lighting & Navaids        16          20        13           10         22          9
Total Project             19          21        17           15         22         13
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 12
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department
Statement of Revenue
(SL thousand)
Year
Ended         Landing        Overflight        Navigation                   Total
June 30         Fees             Fees            Fees           Other       Revenue
1/
1974                                                                         1,313
2/
1975                                                                         1,640
1976             805                676             194           180        1,855
1977             843                757             204           199        2,003
1978             884                855             215           220        2,174
1979             928                917             227           241        2,313
1980          1,008                 984             239           265        2,496
1981           1,405              1,531             295           293        3,524
1982          1,544               1,641             313           328        3,826
1983           1,700              1,762             332           364        4,158
1984           1,905              1,894             358           400        4,557
1985           2,160              2,037             388           434        5,019
1986           2,443              2,192             417           470        5,522
1987           2,747              2,358             448           507        6,060
1988           3,106              2,536             481           547        6,670
1989           3,545              2,728             517           587        7,377
1990           4,090              2,933             557           636        8,216
68,723
1/  Unaudited - detailed classification not available
2/  Estimated - detailed classification not available
Source: Feasibility Study, Director of CAD accounts and IBRD Mission.
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department
Projected Operating Statements
(SE thousand)
Year Ended  Operating               Working Expenses                 Operating                    Operating                Net
June 30      Revenue   Maintenance    Wages    Other    Total    Surplus    Depreciation    Income    Interest   Profit
1/
1974            1,313          58          526       304      888          425           188            237       -           237
1975 2/         1,640          90          591       298      979          661           281            380       -           380
1976            1,855         122          650       363    1,135          720           424            296       -           296
1977            2,003         115          670       384    1,169          834           493            341       -           341
1978            2,174         110          690       381    1,181          993           556            437      -            437
1979            2,313         118          711       381    1,210        1,103           614            489      -            489
1980            2,496         116          770       391    1,277        1,219         1,037            182      -            182
1981            3,524         135          894       508    1,537        1,987         2,622         (  635)   1,394      (2,029)
1982            3,826         134          906       508    1,548        2,278         2,623         (  345)   1,368       (1,713)
1983            4,158         158          919       508    1,585        2,573         2,624         (   51)   1,340      (1,391)
1984            4,557         149          932       508    1,589        2,968         2,626            342    1,309       (  967)
1985            5,019         136          945       508    1,589        3,430         2,626            804    1,276       ( 472)
1986            5,522         139          959       509    1,607        3,915         2,624          1,291    1,240           51
1987            6,060         181          973       509    1,663        4,397         2,625          1,772    1,201          571
1988            6,670         168          987       509    1,664        5,006         2,648         2,358    1,158        1,200
1989            7,377         138        1,001       509    1,648        5,729         2,648          3,081    1,112       1,969
1990            8,216         138        1,016       510    1,664        6,552         2,648          3.904    1,062       2.842
3/        68,723       2,205       14,140    7,588   23,933         44,790        29,907        14.883   12,460       2.A.23
1/ Unaudited
2/  Estimated                                                                                                                    H
3/ From Table 12
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Juba Airport
Projected Operating Statements
(Sb thousand)
Year Ended    Operating               Operating Expenses                  Operating                          Operating
June 30         Revenue    Maintenance   Wages   Other         Total       Deficit        Depreciation           Loss
1974             7             6           18       16         40            33              161             194
1975             7            10           18       15         43            36              161             197
1976            24             5           20       44         69            45              197             242
1977            27             4           21       46         71            44              197             241
1978            30             4           24       55         83            53              198             251
1979            34             4           26       55         85            51              198             249
1980            38            10           65       65        140           102             587              689
1981            50            10           65       65        140            90              588             678
1982            54            10           65       65        140            86              588             674
1983            59            19           65       65        149            90              588             678
1984            63            10           65       65        140            77              588             665
1985            74            12           65       65        142            68              588             656
1986            80            12           65       66        143            63              588             651
1987            86            30           65       66        161            75              588             663
1988            93             9           65       66        140            47              606             653
1989           100            10           65       66        141            41              606             647
1990           108            10           65       66        141            33              606             639
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Malakal Airport
Projected Operating Statements
(SL thousand)
Year Ended        Operating                Operating Expenses                     Operating                         Operating
June 30            Revenue      Maintenance    Wages    Other        Total         Deficit        Depreciation          Loss
1974               8              1            16        10         27          (19)                -                 19
1975               8             -             18        11         29          (21)                -                 21
1976              15              1            20        12         33          (18)                -                 18
1977              16             -             21        13         34          (18)                -                 18
1978              17             -             24        12         36          (19)                -                 19
1979              18             -             26        12         38          (20)                -                 20
1980              20             -             29        12         41          (21)                -                21
1981              51              9            65        54        128          ( 77)              508              585
1982              58              9            65        54        128          ( 70)              508              578
1983              66              9            65        54        128          ( 62)              508              570
1984              75             13            65        54        132          ( 57)              508              565
1985              86              9            65        54        128          ( 42)              508              550
1986             105             10            65        54        129          ( 24)              508              532
1987             115             11            65        54        130          ( 15)              508              523
1988             126             19            65        54        138          ( 12)              508              520
1989             138             11            65        54        130             8               508              500
1990             151             11            65        54        130            21               508              487
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976 



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Port Sudan Airport
Projected Operating Statements
(SL thousand)
Year Ended    Operating                 Operating Expenses                 Operating                          Operating
June 30         Revenue      Maintenance    Wages    Other    Total         Surplus       Depreciation           Loss
1974            19            10            23        19        52      (  33)             1                  34
1975            19            16            30        17        63      ( 44)              1                  45
1976            49            17            33        18        68      (  19)             9                  28
1977            52            17            36        44        97      ( 45)              9                  54
1978            56            17            39        44       100      ( 44)              9                  53
1979            59            17            43        44       104      ( 45)             10                  55
1980            65            17            48        44       109      ( 44)             10                  54
1981            82            18            68        80       166      (  84)           535                619
1982            89            18            68        80       166      (  77)           535                 612
1983            97            18            68        80       166      (  69)           535                604
1984           105            25            68        80       173      ( 68)            535                 603
1985           115            18            68        80       166      ( 51)            535                586
1986           125            19            68        80       167      ( 42)            535                 577
1987           136            19            68        80       167      (  31)           535                 566
1988           148            34            68        80       182      (  34)           540                 574
1989           159            19            68        80       167      (   8)           540                548
1990           176            19            68        81       168          8            540                532
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Wau Airport
Projected Operating Statements
(SL thousand)
Year Ended   Operating                Operating Expenses                Operating                           Operating
June 30        Revenue      Maintenance    Wages   Other   Total         Defieit          Depreciation        Loss
1974           5             -              6        2       8          3                  -               3
1975          5              -              6        3        9         4                  -               4
1976         10               1             7        3      11          1                  -               1
1977         11               1             7        4      12          1                  -               1
1978         12               1             8        3      12          -                  -               -
1979         13               1             9        3      13
1980         14               1            10        3      14          -                  -               -
1981         21               9            64       42     115         94                 432            526
1982         22               9            64       42     115         93                 432            525
1983         23               9            64       42     115         92                 432            524
1984         24              13            64       42     119         95                 432            527
1985         26               9            64       42     115         89                 432            524
1986         28              10            64       42     116         88                 432            520
1987         31              10            64       42     116         85                 432            517
1988         34              18            64       42     124         90                 432            522
1989         38              10            64       42     116         78                 432            510
1990         41              10            64       42     116         75                 432            507
Source:  Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways
Combined Projected Operating Statements
(SE thousand)
Revenue              Operating Expenses                     Provision for Depreciation
Year Ended             Sudan                       Sudan             Operating               Sudan               Operating
June 30      C.A.D.  Airways   Total   C.A.D.   Airways   Total    Surplus    C.A.D.   Airways          Total      Income
1976     1,626      4,613   6,239   1,127       3,207   4,334       1,905        424       294        718      1,187
1977     1,758      5,063   6,821   1,161       3,379   4,540       2,281        493       294        787      1,494
1978     1,909      5,556   7,465   1,173       3,559   4,732       2,733        556       294        850      1,883
1979     2,025      6,098   8,123   1,202       3,748   4,950       3,173        614       234        848      2,325
1980     2,186      6,693   8,879   1,269       3,949   5,218       3,661      1,037       234      1,271      2,390
1981     2,961      7,198  10,159   1,529       4,200   5,729       4,430     2,622        468      3,090      1,340
1982     3,206      7,741  10,947   1,540       4,467   6,007       4,940      2,623       468      3,091      1,849
1983     3,473      8,326  11,799   1,578       4,750   6,328       5,471      2,624       468      3,092      2,379
1984     3,801      8,955  12,756   1,581       5,052   6,633       6,123      2,626       468      3,094      3,029
1985     4,170      9,631  13,801   1,581       5,373   6,954       6,847      2,626       468      3,094      3,753
1986     4,560    10,358  14,918   1,599        5,714   7,313       7,605      2,624       468      3,092      4,513
1987     5,010    11,140  16,150   1,655        6,076   7,731       8,419      2,625       468      3,093      5,326
1988     5,524    11,981  17,505   1,656        6,463   8,119       9,386     2,648        702      3,350     6,036
1989     6,126    12,885  19,011   1,640        6,873   8,513      10,498     2,648        702      3,350      7,148
1990     6,853    13,858  20,711   1,656        7,310   8,966      11,745      2,648        702     3,350     8,395
Total  55,188   130,096 185,284  21,947       74,120  96,067      89,217    29,438      6,732    36,170    53,047
;~~~ --
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department
Base Case 1/
Projected Operating Statements
(SL thousand)
Year Ended    Operating                    Working Expenses                                                   Operating
June 30         Revenue    Maintenance       Wages      Other       Total      Surplus      Depreciation        Income
1976            1,828          231           650        363       1,244         584             483             101
1977            1,981          273           668       427        1,368         613             577              36
1978            2,153          268           686       424        1,378         775             649             126
1979            2,296          279           745        434       1,458         838             809              29
1980            2,501          271           779        507       1,557         944             874              70
1981            2,710          271           796        507       1,574       1,136             876             260
1982            2,940          279           815        507       1,601       1,339             897             442
1983            3,191          294           833        507       1,634       1,557             898             659
1984            3,498          281           894        507       1,682       1,816             899             917
1985            3,843          257           908        508       1,673       2,170             901           1,269
1986            4,208          246           921        508       1,675       2,533             898           1,635
1987            4,630          266           935        508       1,709       2,921             925           1,996
H
1988            5,113          139           949        535       1,623       3,490             925           2,565      >
1989            5,676          162           964        537       1,663       4,013             925           3,088
1990            6 3561 39                    979        537         6         4701              947           3754
52,924  3                          23 94    ~~~~~~~29,430     12,483          16,947
1/  The base case constitutes use of F-27 services with high load factors.
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission.
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways
Combined Operating Statements
Base Case 1/
(SL thousand)
Revenue               Operating Expenses                       Provision for Depreciation
Year Ended             Sudan                        Sudan                  Operating           Sudan                Operating
June 30       CAD    Airways    Total       CAD   Airways       Total      Surplus    CAD    Airways       Total    Income
1976      1,625      4,613    6,238    1,240    3,207        4,447        1,791    483         294         777       1,014
1977      1,757      5,063    6,820    1,363    3,651        5,014        1,806    577         294         871         935
1978      1,910      5,556    7,466    1,374    4,155        5,529        1,937    649         294         943         994
1979      2,025      6,098    8,123    1,453    4,728        6,181        1,942    809         234       1,043         899
1980      2,183      6,693    8,876    1,552    5,383        6,935        1,941    874         234       1,108         833
1981      2,361      7,130    9,491    1,569    5,673        7,242        2,249    876         234       1,110       1,139
1982      2,559      7,596   10,155    1,595    5,980        7,575        2,580    897         234       1,131       1,449
1983      2,775      8,092   10,867    1,630    6,303        7,933        2,934    898         234       1,132       1,802
1984      3,044      8,620   11,664    1,677    6,643        8,320        3,344    899         468       1,367       1,977
1985      3,348      a 'i'S   12,532    1,668    7,000       8,668        3,864    901         468       1,369       2,495
1986      3,666      9,845   13,511    1,671    7,444        9,115        4,396    898         468       1,366       3,030
1987      4,037    10,554   14,591    1,704    7,917         9,621        4,970    925         468       1,393       3,577 7
1988      4,464    11,314   15,778    1,619    8,420    10,039            5,739    925         468       1,393       4,346
1989      4,967    12,129   17,096    1,658    8,955    10,613            6,483    925         468       1,393       5,090
1990      5,581    13,002   18,583    1,650    9,523    11,173            7,410    947         468       1,415       5,995
46,302   125489  171,791   23,423   94,982   18,405            53,386 12,483    _5           1           35,51
1/  The base case constitutes use of F-27 services with high load factors.
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 21
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways
Comparison of Base Case and Project l/
(SE thousand)
Year Ended      Profit Before Depreciation              Profit After Depreciation
June 30     Project   Base Case   Increment    Project   Base Case    Increment
2/          3/                       2/            3/
1976       1,905       1,791          114        1,187      1,014            173
1977       2,281       1,806          475        1,494        935            559
1978       2,733       1,937          796        1,883        994            889
1979        3,173      1,942        1,231        2,325        889          1,426
1980        3,661      1,941        1,720        2,390        833          1,557
1981       4,430       2,249        2,181        1,340      1,139            201
1982       4,940       2,580        2,360        1,849      1,449            400
1983       5,471       2,934        2,537        2,379      1,802            577
1984       6,123       3,344        2,779        3,029      1,977          1,052
1985       6,847       3,864        2,983        3,753      2,495          1,258
1986       7,605       4,396        3,209        4,513      3,030          1,483
1987       8,419       4,970        3,449        5,326      3,577          1,749
1988       9,386       5,739        3,647        6,036      4,346          1,690
1989      10,498       6,483        4,015        7,148      5,090          2,058
1990      11,745       7,410        4,335        8,395      5,995          2,400
Total   89,217      53,386       35,831       53,047    35,575          17_472
1/  The base case constitutes use of F-27 services with high load factors.
2/ Table 18.
3/ Table 20.
Source: Feasibility Study and IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department and Sudan Airways
Financial Internal Rate of Return
(SE thousand)
3/                iTet
Year Ended                  Capital Cost                           Operating Surplus -                  Cash
June 30         Project        Base Case        Net       Project        Base Case        Net          Flow
1976            -            2,086       ( 2,086)        1,905           1,791            114      2,200
1977            841             896      (    55)        2,281           1,806            475        530
1978         5,937              -          5,937         2,733           1,937            796    ( 5,141)
1979        12,226              -         12,226         3,173           1,942         1,231    (10,995)
1980        12,914              -         12,914         3,661           1,941         1,720    (11,194)
1981         2,629              -          2,629         4,430           2,249         2,181    (  448)
1982            -               -             -          4,940           2,580         2,360       2,360
1983            -               -             -          5,471           2,934         2,537       2,537
1984            -             3,512      ( 3,512)        6,123           3,344         2,779       6,291
1985            -               -             -          6,847           3,864         2,983       2,983
1986            -               -             -          7,605           4,396         3,209       3,209
1987         3,512              -          3,512         8,419           4,970         3,449    (    63)
1988           -                -             -          9,386           5,739         3,647       3,647
1989            -               -             -         10,498           6,483         4,015       4,015
1990            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1991!'          -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1992            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1993            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1994            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1995         3,512              -          3,512        11,745           7,410         4,335         823
1996            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1997            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1998            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
1999            -               -             -         11,745           7,410         4,335       4,335
20001'       (2,341)            -        ( 2,341)       11,745           7,410         4,335       6,676
39,230           6,494        32,736      206,667         127,486        79,1.81     46,445
1/  No growth is shown for years 1991-2000
2/ Residual value of aircraft
3/ Table 21
Financial I.R.R. = 10%
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
Appraisal of a Domestic Aviation Project
Civil Aviation Department
Projected Cash Flow
(SL thousand)
Source of Funds                                         Application of Funds
Debtors       Cash                            Total       Capital                              Total       Annual      Cumulative
Year Ended   Operating1    Less           from                   New       Cash        Invest-        Loan Repayment        Cash         Cash          Cash
June 30      Surplus -  Creditors   Operations   Loan        Equity  Available       ments    Principal   Interest   Required    Surplus            Balance
1976           720          115          605        -          436    1,041         1,041        -           -           1,041        -              -
1977           834           10          824       766         -      1,590         1,525         -          -            1,525         65             65
1978           993           15          978    4,541          983    6,502         6,567        -           -           6,567   (    65)            -
1979         1,103           11        1,092    8,693       3,059   12,844         12,844        -           -          12,844        -              -
1980         1,219           15        1,204        -       8,423    9,627          9,627         -           -          9,627        -              -
1981         1,987           74        1,913        -       2,429    4,342          2,641         307       1,394        4,342        -              -
1982         2,278           25        2,253        -          -      2,253             12        333       1,368        1,713         540            540
1983         2,573           26        2,547        -          -      2,547             18        361       1,340         1,719        828          1,36S
1984         2,968           34        2,934        -          -      2,934            179        392       1,309        1,880      1,054           2,422
1985         3,430           39        3,391        -          -      3,391            950       425        1,276        2,651         740          3,162
1986         3,915           42        3,873        -          -      3,873            956       461        1,240         2,657      1,216          4,378
1987         4,397           41        4,356        -          -      4,356            511        500       1,201         2,212      2,144          6,522
1988         5,006           53        4,953        -          -      4,953         1,145         543       1,158         2,846      2,107          8,629
1989         5,729           61        5,668        -          -      5,668            628       589        1,112         2,329      3,339         11,968
1990         6,552           70        6,482        -          -      6,482         2,064        639        1,062         3,765      2,717         14,685
43,704          631       43,073   14,000       15,330   72,403          40,708    4550          2,460        57,718    14685
1/ Table 13
Source:  IBRD Mission
June 1976



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department
Projected Balance Sheets
(St thousand)
Year Ended June 30                          1976     1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash -/                                    -         65        -         -        -         -        540    1,368    2,422    3,162        4,378      6,522      8,629    11,968    14,685
Receivables                               155       167       181       193      208       294       319       347      380       418        460        505        556        615        685
155      232       181       193       208      294       859    1,715    2,802    3,580        4,838      7,027      9,185    12,583    15,370
Fixed Assets:
Runways                                 3,706    3,706    3,706    6,412   24,112   24,112   24,112   24,112   24,112   24,112             24,112   24,112    24,573    24,573    24,573
Buildings                                  95        95        95    1,605    4,776    4,776    4,776    4,776    4,776    4,776            4,776    4,776       4,776      4,776      4,776
Other                                   2,544    3.228    3.856    6.549   13.051   13,063   13,075   13.087   13.099   13,111             13,123   13,135    13,135    13,135    13,135
6,345    7,029    7,657   14,566   41,939   41,951   41,963   41,975   41,987   41,999            42,011   42,023    42,484    42,484    42,484
Accumulated depreciation                  926    1.419    1,973    2.588    3.624    6,246    8.869   11.487   13.946   15,634             17,314   19.440    21,404           23,424    24,008
Net fixed assets in use               5,419    5,610    5,684   11,978   38,315   35,705   33,094   30,488   28,041   26,365             24,697   22,583    21,080    19,060    18,476
Construction in progress                   -        857    7,053   14.479          -        -         -        -        -               -          -         -                -          -
5,419        6,467   12,737   26.457   38,315   35,705   33,094   30.488   28.041   26.365        24.697   22.583    21,080    19,060    18,476
Total Assets                              574               6                 1    53      59         5395    3 32,203   30843               295 35   29610    30,265    31,643    33
Equities
Current Liabilities:
Trade creditors                            40        42        41       42        42        54        54        56        55       54          54        58         56         54         54
Hold backs                                -         -         -        646    2,629        -         -         -        -         -           -         -          -          -          -
Current portion - long term debt          -         -         -        -         307       333       361       392      425       461         500       543        589        639        693
40       42        41       688    2,978       387       415       448       480       515         554      601        645        693        747
Long-term debt - 8-1/2%                               782    5,582   15,119   16,097   15,764   15,403   15,011   14,586   14,125            13,625   13,082    12,493    11,854    11,161
Capital:
Present investment                      4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185    4,185              4,185    4,185       4,185      4,185      4,185
Required new investment                   436       436   1.,419    4.478   12.901   15,330   15.330   15,330   15.330   15.330            15.330   15.330    15,330    15,330    15.330
.621    5,604    8,663   17,086   19.515   19,515   19,515   1                         515      19.515   19  1        9.51 15    19515    19.515
Retained earnings:
Opening                                 617       913    1,254    1,691    2,180    2,362          333  ( 1,380) ( 2,771) ( 3,738)    ( 4,210) ( 4,159)  ( 3,588)  ( 2,388)  (   419)
Profit (loss)                           296       341      437       489       182  ( 2,029) ( 1,713) ( 1,391) (   967) (  472)              51       571      1,200      1,969      2,842
Closing               _                 913    1,254    1,691                2, 362      333  ( 1.380) ( 2,771) ( 3.738) ( 4,210)   ( 4,159) ( 3.588)  (2,388)  (  419)    2.423
Total Capital                           57534    5,875    7 295   10.843   19,448   19.848   18,135   16,744   15,777   15,305             15 356   15.927    17.127    19,096    21.938
Total Equities                           5_574   6_699   12_918   26,650   38,523   35_999   33_953   32.203   30,843   29.945               29,535   29,610    30.265    31.643    33.846
1/ Table 23
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



TABLE 25
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Civil Aviation Department
Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Percent
Debt         Times                         Annual Return
Operating       Service        Interest      Debt/Equity    on Net Fixed
Ratio        Coverage        Earned            Ratio       Assets in Use
1/            2/             3/               4/                5/
1976        0.84             n/a            n/a            0/100              6.0
1977        0.83             n/a            n/a           12/88               6.2
1978        0.80             n/a            n/a           43/57               7.7
1979        0.79             n/a            n/a           58/42               5.5
1980        0.93             n/a            n/a           45/55               0.7
1981        1.18             1.17           Loss          44/56               Loss
1982        1.09             1.34           Loss          46/54               Loss
1983        1.01              1.51          Loss          47/53               Loss
1984        0.92             1.74            0.26         48/52               1.2
1985        0.84             2.02           0.63          48/52               3.0
1986        0.77              2.30           1.04         47/53               5.1
1987        0.71              2.58           1.48         45/55               7.5
1988        0.65              2.94           2.04         42/58              10.8
1989        0.58              3.37           2.77          38/62             15.4
1990        0.52              3.85           3.68          34/66             20.8
1/  Operating Ratio - Total operating expenses, including depreciation
but excluding interest, divided by total operating revenue.
2/  Debt Service Coverage - Net operating income before depreciation
divided by the total of interest plus principal repayments.
3/  Times Interest Earned - Net operating income after depreciation
divided by the interest charges.
4/  Debt/Equity Ratio - The relative percentages of long-term debt and
equity invested in the enterprise. The equity includes invested
capital plus retained earnings (losses).
5/ AnnmIw  Return on Net Fixed Assets in Use - Net operating income after
depreciation, but before interest, as a percentage of the average
net fixed assets in use for the year.
Source: IBRD Mission
June 1976



Annex 1
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
Loan or    Effective      Amount
Credit No.    Date    (US $ million)              W^lorks           Present Status
202-SU      1/06/59        39             Sudan Railways'          Completed 1964
Loan           1959/60 development
prog,ram
L0-s7U     3/10/66        31             gudan Railways'          Completed 1972
Loan           1966/68 development
program
331-51J    12/29/72         7             Highway maintenance     Expected to be
Credit          and transport sector    completed by
technical assistance    end 1976
L57-SUJ     7/29/74        24a Sudan Railwayst IExpected to be
Credit          171/75 development      completed by
program                  end 1976
June 1976



ANNEX 2
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Effects of Existing Infrastructure on Airline Operations
1.        The poor airport facilities, communications and daytime only
flight restrictions have always been at the root of Sudan Airways' finan-
cial problems. For instance, the F-27's had a utilization rate per day
of 4.5 hours in 1973 while the DHC-6's had only 3.0 hours. Normal
utilization would be higher. The way the domestic route structure is
laid out, Sudan Airways fleet could be better utilized if any one route were
upgraded. The development of Port Sudan as an international alternate
for Khartoum is the best example of this. From a traffic point of view,
El Obeid on the near western route is probably the next most important.
It is served from Khartoum in the late afternoon only after the fleet has
returned from other routes. If the fleet is delayed, El Obeid must be
cancelled because of lack of night landing facilities. In the far west
El Geneina, El Fasher and Nyala are extremely important during the rainy
season because of surface transportation limitations. However, the airports
suffer from weather and poor communications and are forced to restrict
operations at unpredictable times. In the south, Juba, Wau and Malakal
are all limited to daylight operations. While the runway at Juba has just
been lengthened and strengthened for use by B-737's on the international
route to Entebbe, the F-27 at Wau and Malakal suffers weight restrictions
because of runway lengths and surface conditions.
2.        If any of these groups of airports were provided with night landing
facilities the airline would be able to readjust its schedules and get
better utilization of its aircraft. One of the major potential improvements
in the south would be for the airline to schedule cargo flights at night.
There is a high demand for air cargo to this area because of the reconstruction
effort and the inadequate capacity of surface transportation. However, the
development of air cargo traffic has not been encouraged by the airline up
to the present time because of the very low cargo carrying capability of the
F-27's when loaded with passengers. The passenger demand in this area has
resulted in very high load factors. This condition, augmented by a poor
reservation system due to lack of communications, has caused waits in excess
of two weeks.
3.        In addition, a country-wide aeronautical telecommunication and
navigational aids improvement program is necessary for two reasons; one,
to help Sudan Airways increase the utilization of its present domestic
fleet through the use of night time operations; two, to enable the country
to live up to its international obligation to provide navagational aids
and communication services to all aircraft wishing to overfly Sudan. While
some of this equipment already exists, it is becoming old, obsolete and
unreliable. The provision of these services to foreign aircraft is a source



ANNEX 2
Page 2
of foreign exchange. The existing charges are SE 35-45 for each civil air-
craft and SE 60 for each militarv aircraft overflying Sudan.
4.        Use of the B-737 on those domestic airports which can support it
would allow the airline to divert two F-27 aircraft to airports now served
by DHC-6 aircraft. These aircraft in turn could then be used to serve
areas not now served. Such upgrading of services to the outlying areas
would require some infrastructure improvements. The Civil Aviation Depart-
ment is in the process of developing this capability internally by
organizing a new division to design and construct its domestic airports.
A recent loan from the West German Government provided almost SE 1.0 million to
purchase airport construction and maintenance equipment. However, the CAD
will require outside help to develop the new design and construction unit
to satisfactory standards.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Project Airports: Current Conditions and Project Works
A. Current Conditions
JUBA
1.        The existing runway is 2,400 x 45 m of flexible pavement.  The
300 m wide flight strip beyond the runway edges generally is ungraded.
Drainage swales and gullies and hummocks abound in this area and pose
serious hazards to any aircraft which happens to swerve off the runway
during landing or takeoff operations.
2.        The terminal area buildings are all within the flight strip clear
zones and therefore are obstructions to flight. The access roads leading
to these buildings are unsurfaced and become almost impassable during the
rainy season.
3.        A very old radio beacon (NDB) is located in the P & T compound
in the town a slight distance away from the airport. During times of poor
visibility its use as an approach aid is greatly reduced.
4.        An airport VHF radio is available for direct pilot-to-ground
communications within a relatively short radius but point-to-point radio
communications with Khartoum are not available.
5.        The electrical power supply for airport use is provided by diesel
engine generators located in the terminal area. This power is used for
the radios and buildings. Field lighting is not available.
MALAKAL
6.        The existing runway is 2,000 x 40 m of flexible pavement.  The
pavement was constructed over a period of about 10 years and is now in a
serious condition due to vehicle overloads. The northeast half of the
runway has developed a series of waves which place severe stress on air-
craft nose wheels during takeoff or landing operations. The southwest
part of the runway is relatively smooth, although the pavement is breaking
up in small sections.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
7.        The airport is located close the the Nile River on black cotton
soil and is relatively flat. The flight strip is clear of obstruction
with the exception of a rest house located in the southwest approaches
to the runway. The terminal building is large but its interior layout
inhibits efficient passenger processing.
8.        The sewerage system existing within the terminal area does not
operate. Access roads to the terminal area are unpaved and become impass-
able or nearly so during the rainy season.
9.        A very old radio beacon (NDB) is located in the P & T compound
in the town a slight distance away from the airport. During times of
poor visibility its use as an approach aid is thus greatly reduced.
10.       An airport VHF radio is available for direct pilot-to-ground
communications within a relatively short radius but point-to-point radio
communications with Khartoum are not available.
11.       The electrical power supply for airport use is provided by
diesel engine generators located in the terminal area. This power is used
for the radios and buildings. Field lighting is not available.
PORT SUDAN
12.       The airport has two runways crossing near the terminal area
at an acute angle. However, the shorter runway is no longer active. The
other runway is 1,750 x 45 m with a sand surface.  The 300 m wide flight
strip beyond the runway edges contains dikes to divert rain water. These
dikes are obstacles to flight. The runway is almost perfectly flat and
during the rare times of rain cannot be used. The approaches from the
south are clear but from the north they are directly over the town of
Port Sudan which lies less than 100 m beyond the end of the runway. Emer-
gency lighting kerosene lamps are provided at periodic intervals along the
runway. While intended for emergency use, these are used quite often for
night operations.
13.       The terminal area buildings are all within the flight strip
clear zones and are therefore obstructions to flight. The terminal build-
ing itself is very modest in size and becomes overloaded with any full
F-27 flight. The access roads to the terminal area are unpaved.
14.       A very old radio beacon (NDB) is located in the P & T compound
in the town a slight distance away from the airport. During times of
poor visability its use as an approach aid is thus greatly reduced.
15.       An airport VHF radio is available for direct pilot-to-ground
communications within a relatively short radius but point-to-point radio
communications with Khartoum are not available.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
16.       The electrical power supply for airport use is provided by diesel
engine generators located in the terminal area. This power is used for
the radios and buildings.
WAU
17.       There are two runways at Wau crossing at almost a 900 angle.
The main runway rises for a short distance, crosses a ridge and proceeds
downhill for the major portion of its length.  It is 1,500 x 45 m, con-
structed of laterite.  The crosswind runway is 1,275 x 45 m and runs
along the ridge mentioned previously.  It is relatively level.  Because of
the slopes of the main runway, any rain causes serious erosion, moving
the small laterite particles and exposing the bedrock on which the runway
is constructed. Aircraft propeller blast also adds to the erosion of the
fine material. The up and down profile of this runway shortens its effective
length to approximately 1,200 m for landing. The eastern approaches to
the crosswind runway are obstructed by the main railroad line and highway.
18.       The terminal area buildings are relatively new, modest in size
but are located within the flight strip clear zones and are therefore
obstructions. Directly adjacent to the runway in the northeast quadrant
is a military compound and to the south is the town of Wau.
19.       The access roads leading to the terminal area are unsurfaced and
are highly affected during the rainy season.
20.       The very old radio beacon (NDB) is located in the P & T compound
in the town a slight distance from the airport. During times of poor
visability its use as an approach aid is thus greatly reduced.
21.       An airport VHF radio is available for direct pilot-to-ground
communications within a relatively short radius but point-to-point
radio communications with Khartoum are not available.
22.       The electrical power supply for airport use is provided by diesel
engine generators located in the terminal area. This power is used for the
radios and buildings. Field lighting is not available.
B. Project Works
JUBA
23.       The 300 m flight strip will be regraded to provide proper drainage
and to remove all obstructions to flight.
24.       The existing terminal area will be demolished (it is within the
flight strip) and a new terminal area will be developed on the opposite
side of the runway. It will include an international terminal building,



ANNEX 3
Page 4
control tower, crash/fire/rescue station, vehicle maintenance shed, standby
engine generator and electrical vault building and a mechanical services
building. These buildings will be served by paved ancillary roads and
the entire area will be provided with a paved access road. A fuel storage
area will be constructed adjacent to this area.
25.       The terminal area will be provided with an aircraft apron connected
to the runway by a stub or lead-in taxiway. The buildings will be provided
with suitable water, electrical and sewerage services.
26.       Runway, taxiway and apron lights will be provided along with
visual approach slope indicators and simple approach light systems at both
ends of the runway. A standby engine generator will be provided but prime
power will come from the town as will the water supply.
27.       A VOR/DME (navigational aid equipment) will be installed on the
airport to act as an approach as well as an enroute aid. New VHF air/ground
radio equipment will be provided in the tower along with HF-ISB radios for
point-to-point voice and teletype communication with Khartoum, Entebbe/Nairobi
and domestic Sudan airports. An NDB (non-directional radio beacon) will
also be installed on the airport property.
MALAKAL
28.       The existing runway will be scarified, widened and repaved as
a flexible runway, 2,000 x 45 m of strength suitable for Boeing 737 aircraft,
fully loaded. The flight strip will be regraded to provide for drainage.
The southwestern threshhold will be displaced by paint markings to provide
clearance over the rest house in the approach area. The lead-in taxiways
and terminal apron will be reconstructed in flexible pavement of suitable
strength. Runway edge lighting, taxiway and apron lighting will be pro-
vided as well as visual approach slope indicators and simple approach
light systems at both ends of the runway.
29.       The existing terminal building and control tower will remain
but the ancillary buildings in the terminal area will be demolished. They
will be replaced by a new crash/fire/rescue station, vehicle maintenance
shed, standby engine generator and electrical vault building and a mechan-
ical services building. The terminal building interior will be rearranged
and partitions constructed to provide an efficient processing area for
passengers. The interior of the control tower will be renovated. The
terminal area buildings will be provided with paved ancillary roads and the
entire area will be provided with a paved access road. Adjacent to the
terminal area will be a fuel storage area.
30.       The terminal area buildings will be provided with suitable water,
electrical and sewerage services. A standby engine generator will be pro-
vided but prime power will come from the town, as well as the water supply.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
31.       A VOR/DME (navigational aid equipment) will be installed on the
airport to act as an approach as well as an enroute aid. New VHF air/ground
radio equipment will be provided in the tower along with HF-ISB radios for
point-to-point voice and teletype communication with Khartoum and domestic
Sudan airports. An NDB (non-directional radio beacon) will also be installed
on the airport property.
PORT SUDAN
32.       An entire new airport will be constructed for Port Sudan.  It will
consist of a 2,200 x 45 m flexible pavement runway, a main and secondary
aircraft apron and dual lead-in taxiways, an international terminal building,
a Haj terminal building, a crash/fire/rescue station, a control tower, a
vehicle maintenance shed, standby engine generator and electrical vault
building, a mechanical services building and a fuel storage area. The runway
will be provided with edge lighting with precision approach lighting system
at one threshhold and a simple approach lighting system at the other. It
will be provided with visual approach slope indicators at both threshholds
and taxiway and apron edge lighting. The terminal area buildings will be
provided with paved ancillary roads and a paved access road from the main
highway. The buildings will be provided with suitable water, electrical
and sewerage services. A standby engine generator will be provided but
the prime power will come from the town, as well as the water supply.
33.       The paving of the secondary apron will be less in strength than
that of the primary apron since it is to be used only during the annual
Haj pilgrimage flights.
34.       A VOR/DME (navigational aid equipment) will be installed on the
airport to act as an approach as well as an enroute aid. New VHF air/ground
radio equipment will be provided in the tower along with HF-ISB radios for
point-to-point voice and teletype communication with Khartoum, Jeddah,
Asmara and domestic Sudan airports. An NDB (non-directional radio beacon)
will also be installed on the airport property.
35.       Staff housing with suitable services will be provided adjacent to
the airport.
WAU
36.       An entire new airport will be constructed for Wau.  It will consist
of a 1,840 x 45 m flexible pavement runway, an aircraft apron, lead-in
taxiway, a terminal building, a crash/fire/rescue station, a control tower,
a vehicle maintenance shed, standby engine generator and electrical vault
building, a mechanical services building and a fuel storage area. The runway
will be provided with edge lighting with simple approach lighting systems at



ANNEX 3
Page 6
both ends. It will be provided with visual approach slope indicators at
both threshholds and taxiway and apron edge lighting. The terminal area
buildings will be provided with paved ancillary roads and a paved access
road from the main highway. The buildings will be provided with suitable
water, electrical and sewerage services. A standby engine generator
will be provided but the prime power will come from the town, as well as
the water supply.
37.       A VOR/DME (navigational aid equipment) will be installed on the
airport to act as an approach as well as an enroute aid. New VHF air/ground
radio equipment will be provided in the tower along with HF-ISB radios for
point-to-point voice and teletype communication with Khartoum, (Bangui)
and domestic Sudan airports. An NDB (non-directional radio beacon) will
also be installed on the airport property.
38.       Staff housing with suitable services will be provided adjacent
to the airport.
June 1976



ANNEX 4
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Additional Aviation Investments Planned by the Government of Sudan
A. Technical Assistance
Sudan Airways
1.        In order that Sudan Airways may make an orderlv transition to
its larger jet operated fleet, ten management experts will be engaged in
the following categories for five years each: commercial manager, engineering
manager, workshops manager with two systems instructors, quality control
manager with two quality control supervisors, diesel engines and ground
equipment manager and catering manager. Cost for these positions is esti-
mated to be about US$2.1 million.
B. Airways System Development
Navigational Aids
2.        In addition to the NDB's (non-directional radio beacons) and
VOR/DME's (VHF omni-directional radio range/distance measuring equipment)
to be installed at each of the four project airports, five other VOR/DNE's
would be installed at the following sites: El Obeid, Shendi, El Fasher,
Kosti and Kassala. These nine units, along with the equipment at Khartoum,
would provide full coverage along the major north/south, east/west and
northeast/southwest air routes of the country. The cost of these units
is estimated to be about US$1.2 million.
Communications
3.        The project airports will be provided with both VHF and HF-ISB
radio equipment for air/ground voice and point-to-point voice and tele-
typewriter, respectively, but eight other sites will also be provided with
HF-ISB for point-to-point voice and teletypewriter communications: Geneina,
El Fasher, Nyala, El Obeid, Atbara, Kassala, Roseires and new Halfa. The
addition of this equipment will allow much more efficient air traffic control
and prompt passage of aeronautical information. The cost of these units is
estimated to be about US$750,000.
June 1976



ANNEX 5
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Airport Maintenance Equipment Provided Under the Project
For the CAD airport engineering section to properly maintain the
new airports they will require some equipment which will have to be based
permanently at each airport because of the long distances between airports
and poor road conditions.        A list of the minimum amount of equipment
required for each airport follows. Its cost is estimated to be about
US$85,000 per airport or a total of US$340,000.
Airport Maintenance Equi> ent and Estimated
Cost for Each Project Airport
Equipment                                                       S_
1.   Asphalt mixing plant, 8 ton/hour                          16,300
2.   Bitumen boiler/sprayer, 500 gallons                        6,300
3.   Asphalt cauldron, 500 kg                                     550
4.   Direct drum hand sprayer                                     300
5.   Tandem self-propelled vibrating roller, 1140 kg            2,500
6.   Compressor, breaking tools and hoses,
125 cfm, 100 psi                                          3,800
7.   Garage compressor, 100 psi                                   300
8.   Oxy-acetylene burning gear                                   300
9.   Welding transformer and tools                                550
10.  Carpenter's tool kit                                         100
11.  Electrician's tool kit                                       100
12.  Diesel fitters tool kit                                      250
13.  Vehicle mechanics tool kit                                   200
14.  Pavement maintenance hand tools                              550
Total per Project Airport                                 32,100
Total for the Four Airports                             128,700
US$
Total for the Four Airports                              321,000
Price Contingency                                         19,000
Total                                                    340,000
June 1976



ANNEm 6
SJDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Construction
Advertisement for interested contractors for Wu, Port
Sudan and Juba Civil Works.                                    Aug 1976
Completion of draft construction working drawings for
Wau, Port Sadan and Juba Civil Works.                          Sept 1976
Completion of draft contract documents for 4au, Port
Sudan and Juba Civil Works.                                    Sept 1976
Government and Bank review of draft drawings and
documents                                                      Oct 1976
Solicitation for pre-qualification information                 Oct 1976
c:onsultant review of pre-qualification information            Nov  1976
Consultants recommendation of pre-qualified list               Jan  1977
Completion of final contract drawings and documents for
Wau, Port Sudan and Juba Civil Works                           Jan  1377
Government and Bank review of pre-qualified list and
final civil works contract documents and drawings for
w*u, Port Sudan and Juba                                       Jan  1977
Invitations to bid issued for Wtu, Port 9udan and
Jiba civil works.                                              Feb  1977
Bids opened                                                    May  1977
Consultants recommendatlon for awards                          May 1977
Government and Bank review of awards                           June 1977
Award and notice to proceed at wOu, Port Sudan and Juba
Civil Works                                                    June 1977
Advertisement for interested contractors for Milakal
Civil Thrks                                                    Aug 1977
Completion of draft construction working drawings for
Malakal                                                        Sept 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Completion of draft contract documents for Milakal             Sept 1977
Government and Bank review of draft drawings and
documents                                                      Oct 1977
Solicitation for pre-qualification information                 Oct 1977
Review of pre-qualification information                        Nov 1977
Consultants recommendation of pre-qualified list               Jan  1978
Completion of final contract drawings and documents for
%lakal                                                         Jan  1978
Government and Bank review of pre-qualified list and
final civil works contract documents and drawings for
MaJlakal                                                       Jan  1978
Tnvitations to bid issued for Malakal civil works             Feb  1978
Bids opened for Malakal civil works                           Mby  1978
Consultants recommendation for awards                          May 1978
Government and Bank review of awards                           June 1978
Award and notice to proceed at Malakal civil works             June 1978
Completion of Juba civil works contract                        Mar  1979
Final acceptance of Juba civil works contract                  Mar 1980
Completion of Wau, Port Sudan and Malakal civil works
contracts                                                      Mar  1980
Final acceptance of Wau, Port Sudan and Malakal civil
works contracts                                                Mar  1981



-Annex 6
Page   3
Navigational and Communications Equipment
Advertisement for interested contractors for navigational
aids, communication and control tower equipment manufacture
and installation at Wau, Port Sudan, Malakal and Juba          Mar  1977
Completion of draft construction drawings and contract
documents for navaids and communications                       May 1977
Solicitation for pre-qualification information for
navaidsand communications contractor                           May 1977
Government and Bank review of draft navaidlsand
communications drawings and contract documents                 June 1977
consultants' review of pre-qualification information
for navaidsand communications contractors                      June 1977
Consultants' recommendation of pre-qualified navaids
and communications contractor list                             Aug  1977
Completion of final navaids and communications contract
drawings and documents                                         Sept 1977
Government and Bank review of pre-qualified list and
final contract documents and drawings for navaidsand
communications contract                                        Sept 1977
Invitations to bid issued for navaidsand communications
contract                                                       Oct 1977
Bids for navaids and communications contract opened            Jan  1978
Consultants recommendation for award of navaids and
communications contract                                        Feb  1978
Government and Bank review of award for navaids and
communications contract                                        Feb  1978
Award and notice to proceed with navaids and communi-
cations contract                                               Mar  1978
Completion of Juba navaids and comrmnications ccntract         Mar  1979
Acceptance of Juba navaids and communications contract         Mar  1980
Completion of Wea, Port Sudan and Malakal navaids and
comuirnmications contract                                      Mar  1980
Acceptance of Wau, Port Sudan and Malakal navaids and.
communications contract                                       -Mar  1981



AMNNE 6
Maintenance Equipment
Advertisement for interested contractors for airport
maintenance equipment for Wau, Port Sudan, Malakal
and Juba                                                     Cct 1977
Completion of draft contract documents for maintenance
equipment                                                    Dec 1977
Solicitation for pre-qualification information for
maintenance equipment manufacturers                          Dec 1977
Government and Bank review of draft contract
documents for maintenance equipment                          Jan  1978
Consultants' review of pre-qualification information
for maintenance equipment manufacturers                      Feb  1978
Consultants' recomnendation of pre-qualified
maintenance eqmipment contractor list                        Mar 1978
Completion of final maintenance equipment contract
documents                                                    Mar 1978
Government and Bnk review of pre-qualified list and
final contract documents for maintenance equipment
contract                                                     Apr 1978
Tnvitations to bid issued for maintenance equipment
contract                                                     May 1978
Bids for maintenance equipment contract opened               July 1978
Consultants' recommendation for award of maintenance
equipment contract                                           Aug 1978
Government and Bank review of award for maintenance
equipment contract                                           Aug 1978
Awjard and notice to proceed with maintenance equipment
contract                                                     Sept 1978
Delivery of maintenance equipment                            Mar 1979



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Technical Assistance and Staff Training
Government to prepare Terms of Reference for technical
assistance positions for CAD                                 Dec 1976
Review of Terms of Reference for TA positions by Bank        Feb 1977
Search for grant funding for TA positions and training
by Government                                                 May 1977
Search for TA experts by ICAO/Bank or others                 Sept 1977
Review of candidates and selection of experts for TA
positions by Government and Bank                              Nov 1977
Mobilization of TA experts in Sudan                          Mar 1978
Preparation of training plan by CAD and its TA experts       Dec 1978
Review of training plan by Bank                               Feb 1979
Selection of trainees by CAD                                 May  1979
Review of training candidates by Bank                         July 1979
Placement of trainees in training facilities                  Sept 1979
June 1976



ANNEX 7
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Economic Background of Individual Airports
PORT SUDAN
1.        Port Sudan is the second largest city in Sudan and the major
port for imports and exports. Industrial development now underway will further
enhance the commercial importance of this city. The latest census in 1973
indicated an urban population of 130,000. The city is connected with the rest
of the country by a narrow gauge railway but lacks a paved road connection.
A road via Kassala is under construction to Khartoum as well as a pipeline
which will relieve the railway of part of its traffic. Port Sudan is also
the Sudanese terminal for a large part of the pilgrim traffic to Saudi Arabia.
The port is reaching its capacity and a new port is planned to the south at
Suakin. The lack of roads and limitations of the railway have encouraged the
use of air transport despite its present constraints. Since some of the
surface transport limitations will be overcome in the foreseeable future, the
domestic air traffic growth is likely to be less here than for the other project
airports. The international and, in particular, the non-scheduled (pilgrim)
traffic will continue to grow rapidly.
JUBA
2.        Juba, on the Nile, is the main center, not only for Equatoria
(1.3 million inhabitants), but also, in many respects, for the two other
southern provinces, Bahr El Ghazal and Upper Nile. The Regional Government
for Southern Sudan is based in Juba. The town has a rapidly increasing urban
population of more than 57,000. It is probably also the center in the south
where current development programs will yield results the quickest. In the
meantime, these programs will be greatly facilitated through jet air services
both for passengers and air cargo, coming principally from the north. North-
bound air cargo will develop more slowly. Nevertheless, significant quantities
of tobacco are already being shipped by air. Game lodge development for
tourists has also started. In the longer term, off-season tropical fruits and
commodities such as tea will benefit from the improved air cargo services. The
river connecting Juba with northern Sudan is navigable throughout the year but,
during periods of low water, delays are frequent. Juba lacks reliable road
connections to the north except for a gravel road to Wau. Many supplies are
imported from Kenya and Uganda over better, but still unpaved roads.
WAU
3.        Wau, in the Bahr El Ghazal province (1.4 million inhabitants), is
the second largest center in the south. Its urban population is about 55,000
and is growing at 12% per year. Wau is better served by surface transport
than Juba or Malakal and has a railway connecting it to the rest of the



ANNEX 7
Page 2
country, a tributary of the Nile navigable for part of the year and an all
weather gravel road to Juba. However, these modes are not very reliable
year-round and Wau is still highly dependent upon air services for contact
with the rest of Sudan. Despite attempts to encourage local projects, the
province still provides seasonal labor for the more developed parts of Sudan.
Bahr El Ghazal is the second largest surplus area for livestock in Sudan. Its
development has been encouraged by the Bank through an experimental farm credit
(476-SU). Although not yet financed, there are plans to use this cattle surplus
to support a slaughter house with up to 30 tons capacity daily. This would be
partly used by a local cannery but would also create a possibility in the longer
term for exports to areas deficient in meat, such as Zaire. A developed airport
is vital for such an undertaking.
MALAKAL
4.        Malakal, on the Nile, is the center of Upper Nile province
(1.3 million inhabitants) and has an urban population of about 38,000. Its
access by river is better than Juba, but the town lacks road connections with
the rest of Sudan, except for dry weather roads usable only part of the year.
Malakal has the same requirement for urgent or valuable commodity   transporta-
tion as Wau and most passengers with high time values depend on air services.
The rich fish catch from the Nile now is mostly sun dried before shipment to the
rest of Sudan. Given air transport, a limited investment in handling and refri-
geration facilities could easily increase the value of the catch substantially.
The airport is now served by most flights to the other two southern airports
which increases the desirability of upgrading it to the same standard as Juba
and Wau. Other major investment proposals in this region will enhance Malakal's
importance.
June 1976



ANNEX 8
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.         Revenues, expenses and capital costs are stated in constant monetary
unit (1975), but include price contingencies.
2.         Tariffs used are in accordance with the revised User Charges of
the CAD which became effective July 1, 1975. Commencing with FY1981, when the
project is scheduled to be completed, overflight fees are increased by 45%,
navigation fees by 20%, local B-737 landing fees by 30%, and all other landing
fees by 10%.
3.        Wages:
(a) wages for FY1976 were increased by 10% over actual wages
paid for FY1975 as advised by the CAD;
(b) wages for project airports after completion of construction
were determined by consultants on the basis of staff require-
ments at 1975 wage levels; and
(c) wages on non-project airports increased at 2% per year to allow
for increased requirements resulting from greater traffic.
4.        Provision for Depreciation:
(a) runways, buildings and fences - 5% commencing year following
completion;
(b) all other - 10% commencing year of acquisition.
5.        Maintenance - Pavements, Buildings, Equipment:
(a) in project as determined by consultants;
(b) in base case - minimal required to operate existing aircraft
types; and
(c) Khartoum (non-project airport) - 2% of replacement cost per year.
June 1976



IBRD  11871
LU L~~~~~~A  N  A~~~~~~~AW   ~~~~EP~~~~L[C  ~~~~~~                                                  OCTOBER 197.5
AVJATION: PROJECT
ElFche w~/ VOIDME  a(oK                                                                                                        E
CC  B) PCBE~~~~~~~~R~~~o EGEB~~~~~n~~REJ
20'-
~~   "~~~  I ~~~~N O0R                        T   H  E   R  N                          IL
N                                   +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ds0EC$                                                                             ,g, 
Ho  ~~~                                             N DR  T T  HE RN
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~b,C
SJL)AN~ ~~~
AE~~~~iCA         __  AR  A 
A                       OM'd't~~~~~~~



