Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4592
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPORT
SUDAN
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
June 30, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects                                                                  Y
Transportation II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I
0
4



SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTERS                                                   Page Nos.
Preface                                                         i
Basic Data Sheet                                                ii
Highlights                                                      iv
I.    Summary                                                  1
II.   The Project                                               2
III.  Evaluation of the Project                                 3
IV.   Conclusions                                               5
Annex 1:  Borrower's Comments                                   7



a



SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
PREFACE
t
The following is a Project Completion Report on an Aviation
Project in Sudan for which Loan 1287-SlJ in the amount, of US$20.0 million
and Credit 643-SU in the amount of US$9.0 million was approved by the Board
on June 15, 1976. The Loan and Credit were closed on September 30, 1981.
The Completion Report was prepared by the Bank's Eastern Africa
Reqional Office and is based on information obtained from the files of the
Bank's Record Center, the Eastern Africa Information Center, Appraisal and
Supervison reports.
In accordance with the revised procedures For project performance
audit reporting, this completion report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department. but the project was not audited by OED staff.. The
Draft Completion Report was sent to the Borrower, who responded with
additional comments by letter dated May 14, 1983, attached as Annex I.



J
i



- ii -
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
*                                       BASIC DATA SHEET 1/
*                                                                           Appraisal
Estirnate
Total Cost of Project as appraised (US$ millions)                  81.6
Loan Amount (third window)                                          20.0
Amount disbursed                                               _
Amount cancelled                                              20.0
Credit Amount                                                        9.0
Amount disbursed        as of September 30, 1982             0.63
Amount cancelled                                             8.37
Amount repaid                                                0.00
Borrowers obligation                                         0.63
Date Physical Components Completed                    project not implemented
Proportion of time overrun (∞O)
Economic Rate of Return                                             1 8%
Cumulative Estimated & Actual Disbursments
(US$ million)
FY78     FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
(i)   Estimated               2.9      11.9    25.8    25.8    29.0
(ii)   Actual 2/              0.07      0.39    0.40    0.63    0.63
1/ Project Cancelled--No Actual Project Costs.
2/ Expenditures for consultant services.



- iii -
Other Project Data
First mention in Files              September 14, 1972
Negotiatons Date                    February 24, 1976
Board Approval Date                June 15, 1976
Loan Agreement Date                 July 7, 1976
Effectiveness Date                 January 11, 1977 (original Oct. 5, 1976)
Closing Date                       September 30, 1981
Borrower                           Government of Sudan
Executing Agency                   Department of Civil Aviation
Fiscal Year of Borrower             July 1 to June 30
Mission Data
No. of    No. of      Staff    Date of
Month/Year    Weeks       Persons    Weeks    Report
Identification       11/72           1          1          1       12/21/72
Preparation          01/74           1           1         1       12/21/74
11/74          1           3          3      03/19/75
Appraisal            05/75           3          3          9       06/03/76
Supervision I        09/76           1           1         1       09/28/76
II      06/77          1           2          2       07/14/77
III     06/78          1           2          2       07/11/78
IV      12/78           1          2          2       01/23/79
V       06/79           1           1         1       07/06/79
VI      11/79           2           2         4       02/13/80
VII     04/80           1           2         2       07/03/80
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency          Sudanese Pounds (S£)
At appraisal              US$ 1.0 = SE 0.40
At Closing Date           US$ 1.0 = SE 0.68



- iv 
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
HIGHLIGHTS
The project was the result of a study carried out by consultants
for the Government of Sudan to improve communications between centers in
the country. In 1972, the Government requested the Bank to participate in
the financing and as a result, four airports - Port Sudan, Wau, Juba and
Malakal - were selected. Funds were included in the Third Railway Project
(Credit 457-SU) for engineerinq studies and design for the four airports.
Tenders were called for Port Sudan, Wau and Malakal in March
1979. Juba was excluded due to EDF financing. Port Sudan was included but
was to be financed by the Saudi Fund. Due to the high bid prices, the
contractors were asked to rebid on a reduced civil works program. The
results of the second round of bidding were still so high that the Loan/
Credit funds were not sufficient and, in addition, the project airports
would not be economically viable (Paras. 1.01-1.02).
The concept was sound as it was designed to provide a foundation
for initial improvements leading to further improvements in the future but
the Government's delays in expediting matters and the high costs in the
bids resulted in the abandonment of the two airports, Wau and Malaikal, to
be financed by the Loan/Credit. The remaining two airports, Port Sudan and
Juba, with the larqest traffic potential will still be constructecl under
other financing (Paras 3.04-3.05).
No civil works were carried out at Wau and Malakal and no
equipment procured. Engineering services, financed under Credit 643-SU,
amounted to US$512,291 and for accountancy consultants US$114,525 (Para
2.03). Although the accounting consultants completed their assignment, the
system was not implemented as the Government could not be persuaded to
adopt the accrual system which differed from the existinq Government budget
control system.
The Loan/Credit was closed on the closing date, September 30,
1981 and action was taken to cancel the remaining undisbursed balances.



4



SUDAN
DOMESTIC AVIATION
LOAN 1287-SU AND CREDIT 643-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. SUMMARY
1.01       In 1972, the Government of Sudan requested the Bank to
participate in financing a domestic civil aviation project as a step in
improving the communication between centres in the c--ntry.  The first
mission visited the Sudan in October 1972 to review a study, carried out by
Dutch consultants, of twelve airports. As a result of the missiorl review
and discussions with the Government, four airports, Port Sudan, Wau, Juba
and Malakal (in that order of priority) were selected for further
investigation and ultimately constituted the airports included in the
project. Funds were included in the Third Railway Project (Credit 457-SU)
to finance engineering studies and design for the project airports.
Consultants were appointed in January 1974. Their final report was issued
in February 1975 and included technical, economic and financial analyses.
The project was appraised in May 1975, approved by the Executive Directors
June 15, 1976, signed on July 7 and became effective January 11, 1977.
1.02       At the time of presenting the project to the Bank's Board,
financing for the project had not been finalized. Co-financing was sought
by the Bank from the inception of the project. Saudi Fund financing was
secured for Port Sudan airport in January 1976 but EEC/EDF financing
negotiated by the Sudan for the Juba airport was not finalized until
1981. Final engineering and design were essentially complete in July 1977.
Tenders were called for Port Sudan, Wau and Malakal airports in March 1979
and bids were opened in July 1979. Juba was excluded due to proposed EDF
financing. Due to the high bid prices, the contractors who had submitted
bids were requested to rebid on a revised and reduced civil works program
that still provided most of the essential elements. The results of the
second round of bidding were still so high that the Loan and Crecdit
proceeds would still be insufficient for construction of even one of the
two airports.  More significantly, with increased construction cost (by 130
percent compared with appraisal estimates) construction of either Wau or
Malakal would not be economically viable. The Bank and Associati,on
therefore suggested in a letter of January 19, 1981 from the Director of
Programs that the Government initiate cancellation of the Loan and Credit.
The Bank Group, moreover, advised the Government that it could not aqree to
the Government's proposal for a negotiated contract for Malakal airport
only. Thus further withdrawals for actual construction were precluded and
after the closing date, September 30, 1981, action was taken to cancel the
remaining undisbursed balances. The Saudi Fund and the Civil Aviation
Department (CAD) were still negotiating the Port Sudan airport in February
1982. The Juba airport work is now being implemented with EDF financing.



- 2 -
The failure of this project raises issues that are discussed briefly later
in this report. The general conclusions are:
(a) The project overall was basically sound in terms of filling
a transportation need, specifically as a step in providing
faster, more reliable transport between cities;
(b) If the Bank portion of the project had been implemented as
planned, it would have been underutilized under present
conditions; and
(c) Development of domestic air services is still required but a
new more comprehensive approach to improving Sudanese air
transport would be necessary. Transport sector work in the
Sudan should examine the overall situation in detail.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      The total project cost was estimated at US$86.0 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$65.0 million. The Bank
approved a third window loan of US$20.0 million and the Association a
credit of US$9.0 million on June 15, 1976 to finance foreign exchange costs
of Wau and Malakal Airports, plus the foreign exchange costs of airport
equipment, engineering desiqn, project supervision, accountancy
consultants, technical assistance and training. At the time of appraisal,
it was olanned that the civil works at Port Sudan would be financed from
the Saudi Fund and the civil works of Juba by the Government. Later the
Government secured financing for Juba from the EEC.
2.02      The project included:
(a) the construction of two new regional airports, at Port Sudan
and Wau; the reconstruction of the runway at Malakal and the
construction of a new passenger terminal building and related
works at Juba 1/.
(b) supervision of construction works;
(c) the provision of airport maintenance equipment;
(d) the procurement and installation of communication and
naviqation equipment for the project airports; and
(e) technical assistance and staff training for the Civil
Aviation Department primarily in financial management and
engineering.
The works, as bid, for Port Sudan, Wau and Malakal included parts
(a), (c) and (d) of the above.
1/  Subsequently, the EEC redesigned the Juba component and the works now
being financed by the EEC includes the terminal, runway, taxiway and
aircraft parkinq apron.



- 3 -
Loan/Credit Disbursements Consultant Services
2.03      Feasibility and desiqn studies for the civil works were financed
from the Third Railway Project (Credit 457-SIW) and US$986,411 was
disbursed. Engineerinq services financed from Credit 643-SU amounted to
US$512,291 for final design and tender evaluation. US$114,525 was
disbursed for accountancy consulting services from Credit 643-SU. Studies
were carried out and financial management systems devised but there was no
implementation of the systems since they were not compatible with the
existing overall government system (i.e. cost accounting vs more
generalized government budget control). The Government could not be
persuaded to make the necessary changes. No civil works were carried out
at Wau and Malakal and no equipment procured.  The Government is making
other arrangements for the financing of project supervision at Juiba and
Port Sudan.
III. EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
3.01      The Sudan is a large country with long distances between the
larger population centres. For example, the direct line flying distance
from Khartoum to Nyala is 925 km, Wau 1000 km, Juba 1150 km, Wadi Halfa
700 km and Port Sudan 700 km. The road journey from Khartoum to Port Sudan
takes about 12 hours or a 24 hour journey by rail compared with 1-1/2 hours
by air. In 1972 when the original air transport study began, surface
transportation to the Southern Region was extremely slow and unreliable and
remains so to this day. The timely movement of entrepreneurs, government
officials, critical parts, supplies and equipment can still best be met by
an efficient and reliable air transport system. In terms of overall cost,
when capital, operating time, loss and damage are taken into consideration,
the transport of goods by air would be attractive and the economic cost to
the Sudan due to the lack of reliable surface transport is far from
negligible.
3.02      The air transport system essentially includes 5 units (a) the
airport network to the north, Wadi Halfa, Karima, Port Sudan, Dongola etc.;
(b) the western network Nyala, El Obeid, El Fashir etc.; (c) the Southern
region, Wau, Malakal, Juba (d) the Civil Aviation Authority which, as part
of its duties, operates the airports and (e) Sudan Airways which provides
the air service. In concept the project addressed only the Southern region
plus Port Sudan airports and Civil Aviation Departments technica:l problems
in airport engineering and financial management. At the time of project
preparation, Bank staff felt that by beginning with a relatively small
project the outlook was good for rapid implementation and possibly further
project work. The situation evolved not so much by deterioration as by
paralysis and the project failed.
3.03      The questions that arise include:
(a) should the Bank have attemoted this project;
(b) was the project concept reasonable;



- 4-
(c) what went wrong; and
(d) could the Bank have done more to assure success?
3.04      The Bank was justified in undertaking the project as a first step
towards rationalizing the air transport mode in the Sudan. A definite
problem was identified and the Bank took the initiative to alleviate part
of the problem. Unfortunately, today the problem still exists and, if
anything, is even more serious. For example, the Bank has found it
necessary to procure aircraft to provide adequate access to agricultural
projects in the Western Sudan.
3.05      In view of the CAD's capacity to absorb the project, the concept
was sound as it could have laid a solid foundation for initial improvement
leading to further improvements, possibly through a second project.
Unfortunately, due to the low economic justification relative to the costs
involved, the Bank/IDA portion of the project had to be abandoned. The two
most important airports with the largest traffic potential will be
constructed, at Port Sudan and Juba. However, the economic justification
for Juba and Port Sudan will remain marginal unless the airline can provide
a more reliable service. With respect to the technical assistance it was
found that there was great resentment on the part of CAD personnel towards
the Bank's insistance on the need for technical assistance.  Unless the
recipient organization is eager to profit from technical assistance there
will be no benefit. In this case the Bank failed to "sell" the idea
adequately.
3.06      Two major factors that affected implementation were Government
delay in expediting matters and the high costs prevailing in the bids.
3.07      No satisfactory explanation for the delays has been obtained.
The reasons for the high bid prices submitted by the few contractors who
responded are also not entirely clear. Very little reliable cost data was
available when the consultants prepared their estimates but these did
appear reasonable at the time. The inclusion of a special risk contingency
in the appraisal report is evidence of uncertainty. The works involved
were straightforward with no unusual features but they were not large
contracts and the plant required was substantial. Therefore the
transportation of the plant and logistical support was a significant item.
The Government refused to provide or ensure provision of fuel or
transport. With no reasonable certainty of being able to obtain fuel and
transport to the work areas (e.g. by rail or river) the contractors built
very high contingency factors into their prices. Concern about
amortization of plant, payment of claims and delays in the work, as
perceived by the contractors, also apparently affected their costinq of the
jobs. It would have probably been better to have had the plant and
materials supplied under separate contract so as to reduce the perceived
risk to the contractors but the Government at that time wanted to have the
contractor take full responsibility.
3.08      It became clear as time went on and the airport situation was not
improved that this did affect Sudan Airways performance. In addition, and
possibly more important, fuel shortages, lack of foreign exchange for
aircraft maintenance, and inept management also had a severe impact on the
impact on the airline. The airline would not have been able to utilize the



- 5 -
airports properly if they had been built on time.  Therefore it is arquable
if the Bank could or should have tried harder. Our evaluation is that the
lack of an adequate air transport system will impede the economic recovery
of the country but the problem can now only be resolved by a systematic
project that would coordinate Sudan Airways manaqement 3nd onerations with
an appropriate airport infrastructure proqram.
3.09      Since the Saudi Fund and the EEC were independently negotiating
the works at Port Sudan and Juba respectively, there was no evident need
for IDA to continue the supervision of this aspect of the project or to
maintain the Credit in force for that purpose.  Similarly, there appeared
to be no progress to be made in technical assistance. With respect to the
electronic equipment, the CAD was negotiating a separate arrangement with
Japan which in large measure has met the need for communications and
navigation equipment. There is an apparent anomaly in Para. 2.05 in saying
on the one hand that the project was and still is sou   while at the same
time noting a lack of economic justification for proceeding further. There
is a very definite need to provide adequate, regular and reliable air
transport in the Sudan but, while Port Sudan and Juba can stand alone, the
economics of the excessive cost of Wau or Malakal airports versus the
benefits were not favorable. It would have been possible to try a
different approach but the fundamental restructuring of the entire project
would have been so time consuming and problematic that this alternative was
not seriously considered. An entirely new project aporaisal on a quite
different premise appeared to be a more rational approach. Under the
circumstances, IDA was entirely justified in seeking termination of the
Credit.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
1.  The consultants performed satisfactorily, at times under
difficult conditions;
2.  The impact of the project on the CAD was virtually nil
insofar as institution building was concerned;
3.  Bank performance was not outstandinq but it is difficult to
see where anything more could reasonably have been done;
4.  The project was sound in concept, particularly with respect
to the airports of Wau, Malakal and Juba. It was realized at
the outset that this was a difficult project due to
logistics. The very fact of the difficulty of access to this
potentially useful area was the key to the project. The Bank
did not shrink from a difficult project simply because it was
difficult and this is a source of some satisfaction. The
south has not developed in the intervening years, in part due
to a lack of easy access and the steadily deteriorating
performance of Sudan Airways. The problems of lack of fuel
supplies in the interior and the lack of foreign exchanqe for
aircraft maintenance have played a part in Sudan Airways
performance. Hence even if the airports had been provided as
planned, service would have been inadequate. In our view the
oroblem of access to the Southern Sudan remains and



- 6 -
development will lag unless more adequate air transport can
be provided. Adequate road construction would be a more
costly alternative;
5. The unacceptably high construction costs were due in part to
problems anticipated by contractors, e.g. inadequate
transport and no certainty with respect to fuel supplies. At
the time the road route to the area through Kenya and Uganda
was unreliable and the Government would qive contractors no
assurances as to availability of rail or water transport or
fuel supply, via Port Sudan and Khartoum. The consultants
and Bank staff did not fully appreciate the total lack of
loqistical support by the Government and in that sense
underestimated the problems and costs of the project;
6. No satisfactory reason for the procrastination of the
Government in implementing the project has been obtained.
Lack of fully committed financing for all the works, fear of
incurring foreiqn exchange costs, the possibility that the
Government. was not fully commited to helping the south and
the fact that the civil airport operations functioned as an
offshoot of the Ministry of Defense rather than the Ministry
of Transportation are factors that may have contributed to
the unnecessarily long delays in preparation and
implementation of the project;
7. Working relationships with the Government were and still are
good. Staff still keep in touch with the CAD when in the
Sudan. However, this was not enough to move the project;
8. It is now evident that full financing of the project should
have been assured prior to Board presentation; and
9. More serious government commitment should have been obtained,
particularly in logistic support, as the Government's
attitude was reflected in the Contractor's very high bid
prices.
10. In retrospect, the project was too infrastructure oriented
and did not adequately consider the entire transport system.



-,l              ,,.t     | ,''.
TUM DZOCRATIC REULIC OF TMEE S1U                      Annex I
idt3ry of Fainace & Eeonowi Plannin
UNDER SECRETARY'S OFFICEM                                            6LJ3 "
P. 0. Box 2092, KHASTOUM                                          - T.S -
Cable (EmAs)
TELEX: 324
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .... ,,  ,...._
Khartoum:  ,14h., .My,' t
Ref :   ...... 14FEP/33(Q/ 1,01 -                          ., . ., ....... .......
'hiv. S. Kapur
Director,
Operations ievaluation Department
World Bank
I8M8 Street, N.W.,
WaEhington D.C. 20433
U.S,A.
Subject:  5udan Domestic Aviation Project
Credit 643-ZU/ Loan I287 - (CC)
Dear `ir,
Re. your letter dated Il:arch 18, 1983 regarciing project completion
report on the above nentioned project, I would like to highlight some
points mentioned in the draft report which may clarify some facts.
The report has neglected the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning proposals submitted to World Bank either to postponf. one of
the two projects for future implemientation or to reduce the two projects
components to meet the credit and loan ceilièigs; but the World Bank has
disagrced to those proposals and insisted that the GUS should indure the
financial gap.
The amount of Us$ 8CUFA4  O allocated for techrical assistant on
which World sarn  strictly insisted was not sufficiently enough to meet
recruitment of high cqualified experts required by CVI). Also the World
Bank has disagreed to reduce the number of experts according to available
balance so as to enable CVD to recruit high qualified experts and recommen-
ded to choose some Pakistanians experts whose CV were regreted by CVD as
being of lower qualifications than it's local staff.
We regret that para5raph (6) of conclusions, particularly that
reads "The possibility thct the Government was not fully committed to
he'ping southl".
All points mertioned above are also CVO's views.
^ st  regards.               <~ 
UNC2JP &z? _nT'. Y OF f'L_I.ING
NIXWISlT±Y uPF IFIN,/..'CE & LC( IXtIIC PLAKVJING



I



