II~~~  PflD V ~~~Docment of                                    DCUAIG          -p
FILE COPY                              ne World Bank                         ICULTNG yOP!
-TO BCE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-1759a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A DOMESTIC AVIATION
PROJECT
June 3, 1976
'Ti dwmI uarsrce       ibbdnadmyb          sdb   eiinsol ntepronneo



CURRENCY UNIT = SUDANESE POUND (LSd)
Official Exchange Rate
US$1 = ESd 0.348
ESd 1 = US$2.872
Piasters (Pt) 100 = ESd 1.00
Effective Exchange Rate
US$1 = ESd 0.398
ESd 1 = US$2.50
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
Glossory of Abbreviations
ILO  =  International Labor Organization
EEC  = European Economic Community
SRC =   Sudan Railways Corporation
RBPC = Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
ADAR = Associates for the Development of Arab Resources
RTC -   River Transport Corporation
CAD = Civil Aviation Department
UNDP = United Nations Development Program
ICAO = International Civil Aviation Organization
PEWC = Public Electricity and Water Corporation



FMr  OICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT FOR A
DOMESTIC AVIATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of $20 million and a proposed credit of $9 million
to the Democratic Reriblic of the Sudan to help finance a domestic aviation
project. The loan would be on standard Third Window terms of 25 years
including a seven year grace period, with interest at 4.85%.The credit would
be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Since the last economic reports on the Sudan were presented to the
Board (Report No. AE-27 in four volumes dated June 9, 1972 and Report No.
119a-SU dated June 1, 1973 on the Southern Region), the Bank has participated
in the ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission. The Bank staff played
a major role in both the conception and execution of the ILO mission's work.
Whilst the mission was an employment strategy mission, its focus, as with
previous ILO missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-
income earners in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's
report is comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and con-
clusions are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy
issues with the Government and for the development of our program of opera-
tions. The report has been influential in stimulating discussion of devel-
opment policy issues in the country. A special government working group re-
viewed the report and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of its
analysis and conclusions. It is also providing a major input into the prep-
aration of the Six Year Plan for 1977-83 currently being undertaken. Country
data are attached as Annex I.
Economic Potential and Performance
3.        Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa, with a population of about 17 million. Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is no population pressure on presently devel-
oped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agri-
cultural development. About one-third (87 million hectares) of the total
land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only a small
fraction of this land is presently utilized. In addition, the White Nile
and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled the
country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The
Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to over half of that allo-
cated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there remains
room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The proximity of
Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places it in an excellent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



position for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have
increasingly come to consider Sudan as a primary future source of agricul-
tural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is a
poor country. GNP per capita is estimated at US$130 (1974) and the country
is included among the UN's twenty-five Least Developed Countries. The eco-
nomy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity
produced on irrigat-d land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and ground-
nuts. Its considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manu-
facturing sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some
agricultural commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods
and building materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and the
feasibility of developing other minerals is receiving attention. The public
sector embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways and virtually
all power and water supply. With.the nationalization measures of 1970/71,
a significant proportion of industry, commerce and finance was also trans-
ferred to the public sector. Although some industrial enterprises have
been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still gen-
erated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is considerable,
its economic performance has been disappointing. During the past decade, the
economy has grown by little more than the rate of growth of the population.
This is primarily due to the depressed level of investment, both public and
private. While the Government was successful in achieving a high growth rate
of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure absorbed most of it, and develop-
ment expenditure decreased. The growth of current expenditure was caused by
increasing security expenditures, the policy of hiring all post secondary
school graduates and converting casual labor on public projects into permanent
government employees, and the rapidly increasing transfers to local government.
Further, savings generated by public corporations also declined because of in-
efficiency and rigid pricing policies. Public sector deficits were increas-
ingly financed through excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and
the external position was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports
and a stagnation of export volume. In the last two years, however, there have
been some positive ar2hievements, the most significant of which is a rapidly
increasing investmer.t program, with much of it directed at the critical bot-
tleneck problems in the economy, particularly in the transport sector (see
para. 21 below).
6.        In attempting to reverse the relative stagnation of the past, atten-
tion will have to be directed to the very difficult questions of long-term
development which were the subject of the ILO report. These include a number
of important issues such as curbing the rise in recurrent expenditures and
reforming the tax system to make it development-oriented; restructuring of
the incentive svstem to encourage exports of agricultural products and dis-
courage unviable industrial investment; the deployment of public expenditure
to raise productivity in traditional agriculture; the development of modern
sector agriculture as the productive lynchpin of the economy; large scale



- 3 -
investment in infrastructure to facilitate agricultural and industrial
development; and reforms in the education system to adapt it to changing
needs. These issues are summarily reviewed in the following paragraphs.
However, the Government also faces a very difficult short-run balance of
payments problem which is reviewed in paras. 17-20 below. The challenge to
the Government in Sudan is to develop policies and programs which lead to
more effective short-run management of the economy but at the same time
address the longer-term issues which will otherwise impede the full realiza-
tion of the country'.; potential.
Long-Term Development Issues
7.        Current objectives of the Government are summarized in the Interim
Action Program adopted by the Sudan Socialist Union in late 1973. The central
precepts of the Program are: a rapid increase in the growth of GDP; reduction
of inter-regional and rural-urban income disparities; reduction of unemploy-
ment; provision of basic services for all citizens; and self-sufficiency in
basic commodities. No quantitative targets are specified. The ILO report
concludes that Sudanese objectives, thus defined, can be achieved by a high
growth- strategy which devotes special attention to the employment and equity
goals. Such a strategy would require a dramatic increase in public and pri-
vate savings as well as substantial capital inflows from abroad. Specifi-
cally, the report projects that with savings rising from an average of 10%
of GDP during the early 1970's to between 15% and 20% in 1985 and a tripling
of gross capital inflows, rising from about $300 million in 1974 to about
one billion (current) dollars by 1985, Sudan could aspire to double the
growth rate of GDP in real terms from 3-4% p.a. during 1964-75 to about
6-8% in 1985. The attainment of these targets and the objectives of the
Interim Action Program depend upon the ability of the Government to deal
with major constraints on development in all sectors of the economy.
8.        Agriculture:  This sector dominates the Sudanese economy and is
likely to continue to do so for several decades. Given the extraordinary
size of unsettled arable land with access to potential irrigation waters or
adequate rain, Sudan's comparative advantage in the foreseeable future will
continue to be in agriculture. To succeed, any development strategy for Sudan
must, therefore, give a central role to the agricultural sector. It is also
essential that the objectives of the various types of agricultural production
be clearly defined -while seeking to maintain a proper balance between them.
For example, a rapid expansion in agricultural production can best be achieved
by an expansion of modern mechanized dryland and irrigated agriculture. This
will be necessary to increase export earnings to pay for capital imports. On
the other hand, the equity objectives of the government require that agricul-
tural expansion should also take place in areas of traditional agriculture.
To pave the way for more productive agricultural techniques, initial invest-
ment in basic agricultural services and infrastructure will be needed. This
investment will probably not increase output greatly in the short run, but
is an essential prerequisite to modernization of agriculture in the poorer
parts of the country. Moreover, given the incomplete knowledge of the
traditional sector (the resource base and what it would take in the form
of policies and programs to make a significant impact on productivity and



- 4-
incomes) there is a need for a much expanded research, experiment and exten-
sion program to precede and accompany agricultural investment.
9.        Within the modern sector of Sudanese agriculture, the basic
question is the emphasis to be given to mechanized dryland farming, which
requires little Government investment and tends to mobilize private savings,
as opposed to irrigated agriculture which is highly capital intensive, and
requires a very larc'e Government investment. Irrigated agriculture is both
more productive and less dependent on weather than mechanized dryland farm-
ing. However, much can be done to expand yields on existing irrigated lands,
at a relatively small cost. While accepting the argument for further expan-
sion of irrigation, the ILO report concluded that such expansion ought not
to be at the expense of the other forms of agricultural expansion. In view
of the particularly large capital inputs required for expansion of irriga-
tion, such expansion wLll be particularly dependent on capital imports.
The ILO report encourages the Government to facilitate the entry of farm-
ers with relatively small capital into dryland mechanized farming, through
joint or cooperative ventures. The Government is faced with a dilemma in
regard to mechanization in irrigated agriculture, which offers the possi-
bility of high intensity cropping and higher incomes, but might reduce
income-earning opportunities for seasonal migrant workers. Such opportuni-
ties constitute an important and efficient transfer mechanism from the richer
to the poorer parts of the country.
10.       Transportation.  A large expansion in agricultural production will
require a much improved transportation system to permit distribution of in-
puts and access to markets. A large investment program is already under way,
affecting railways, roads, inland water transport, an oil pipeline and domes-
tic aviation. In view of the distances involved, investment in transportation
facilities in all modes will continue to demand a large proportion of the avail-
able resources. The requirements have been analyzed in a study carried out by
a consulting firm, the Associates for the Development of Arab Resources (ADAR).
Port expansion will be essential, as will further investment in the railway and
water transportation network. A system of trunk roads and regional roads to
facilitate the economic integration of the Southern and Western provinces with
the Central and Eastern regions will also be required. Although the ADAR
transportation study and the ILO mission assessed the needs slightly differ-
ently, they were in broad agreement about the essentials.
11.       Industry:  The main thrust of the industrial strategy for the next
decade, outlined in the ILO report, is selective and limited industrialization
based on agro-processing to develop export capability. The case for this rests
on comparative advantage, and the need to give greater priority to agricultural
growth. Among those sub-sectors where good prospects exist for agro-process-
ing and exports are textiles, sugar refining, edible oils, leather and the
production of yeast for bakery and pharmaceutical use. The ILO report argues
that there is considerable scope for the expansion of these and other indus-
tries to allow industrial output to rise by about 6 percent per annum during
the period 1975-80 and by about 10 percent per annum thereafter. Expansion
of this magnitude would add about $320 million to output in the next decade



and create over 100,000 jobs. In order to facilitate attainment of these
targets a number of policy changes would be required in the system of in-
centives (taxes and subsidies on trade and domestic activities, quantitative
restrictions on trade, licensing and pricing policies) which currently guides
resource allocation in Sudan. Additionally, for both social and economic
reasons it would be right to encourage scattered development of industry
in small, labor-intensive enterprises, when locational and technical re-
quirements permit. Several such industries are identified in the ILO
Report.
12.       Incentives for Resource Allocation:   Although Sudan's long-term
comparative advantage lies chiefly in agriculture and the most promising
market opportunities are in exports, the ILO report's analysis of the exist-
ing policies on foreign trade and payments, taxation and pricing, and their
implications for the structure of incentives guiding resource allocation,
indicates that present policies favor industry and import substitution while
discouraging agriculture and exports. In addition, present policies gener-
ate excessively high profits in the commerce sector. Moreover, the existing
policies are implemented through an elaborate and time-consuming system of
monitoring and control which squanders scarce managerial talent and is very
difficult to coordinate effectively. The report made a series of proposals
for re-aligning these policies to achieve more efficient utilization of
Sudan's resource endowments. The proposals made are far-reaching and will
require more detailed work for implementation. Some of these studies are
under way and both the Bank and IMF are assisting the Government in this
work.
13.       Education:  Compared to most other African countries, the Sudan is
well provided with trained manpower. This is attributable in part to the
fact that the educational system has evolved over a longer period. Neverthe-
less, the ILO report concludes that, as in many countries, the education system
is geared to the needs of a relatively few who pass from one level of educa-
tion to another, rather than to the needs of the majority at every level who
leave school to start work. It found also that the emphasis on secondary and
higher education is such that, for budgetary reasons, universal primary educa-
tion is unlikely to be reached until after the year 2000. Furthermore, the
inter-regional and urban-rural imbalances are striking, and unless remedied,
would frustrate the equity objectives of the Government. It is therefore
encouraging to note that the government started in January 1976 a national
study of the entire education system. IDA will be providing some assistance
for this review through the Second Education Project, approved by the Board in
M-ay 1975.
14.       Resource Mobilization:   The attainment of the Government's objectives
of rapid growth in output, incomes, employment and equitable distribution of
income will require a large increase in investment expenditure. It is expected
that Sudan will receive large capital inflows from external sources, particu-
larly from Arab countries. This is a unique opportunity. Whilst external
assistance on concessionary terms can reduce the burdern of raising domes-
tic resources, however, the latter remains a critical requirement. Sudan



- 6 -
must strive for a gradual increase in its rate of domestic savings. In
this regard, particular attention needs to be given to the role of Central
Government. Since the early 1960s its contribution to savings has deteri-
orated markedly despite a strong record on revenue raising which pushed
the revenue/GDP ratio from about 18 percent in the early 1960s to 28 per-
cent at present.
15.       The Government is aware of the need for improvement in public sector
finances and has ir the past year made progress in the control of expenditures.
However, further changes will be required to reverse and bolster the trend in
public savings. For example, there is a critical need to scrutinize the
rapidly increasing transfers from Central to Provincial, and through them,
to Local Governments. In 1974/75 these transfers took up more than 15 per-
cent of the Central Government's current revenues. There is a clear need
for a more rational formula to determine the total of these transfers and
guide its allocation between Local Governments. With regard to Central
Government revenue, the thrust of the ILO report's recommendations is
aimed less at raising the already high revenue/GDP ratio, and more towards
fiscal reforms which would encourage better resource allocation, increase
equity, and preserve the presently high revenue ratio from erosion due to
changes in the production structure. In summary, the Report recommends
less reliance on foreign trade taxes and argues in favor of developing
broad-based consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes, especially
to capture the growth in incomes anticipated in the modern agricultural
sector. To the extent taxes on foreign trade would remain, the analysis
calls for considerable rationalization of the existing structure to mini-
mize its adverse effects on resource allocation in the economy. In some
cases, these fiscal reforms would require more detailed study for imple-
mentation. The IMF and the Bank can be of assistance in this connection.
16.       Project Implementation Capacity:  According to the analyses
contained in the ILO report the investment required to meet the Govern-
ment's objectives would be very large, exceeding US$9 billion in 1975
prices over the next ten years. Sudan's association with the Arab oil
exporting countries could be a critical factor in generating the capital
inflows required to sustain an investment program of such a magnitude. In
a recent move, the Governors of the Arab Fund authorized the creation of
an Inter-Arab Authority for Agricultural Development, with a capital exceed-
ing $500 million, whiich is expected to start its operations in Sudan.
However, for investment to expand on a scale commensurate with both the
needs and opportunities, Sudan needs to expand its capacity to identify
projects and to manage the preinvestment work, which is a prerequisite
to a commitment of investment funds. Some work of this kind is being
undertaken, but the Government considers that in order for a flow of
adequately prepared projects to become available on a sufficient scale,
Sudan will require further external assistance in project preparation
and other pre-investment work. A recent IDA credit and funds allocated
for this purpose by the Kuwait Fund, the EEC and bilateral agencies will help
to meet the need.



17.       Government's Reception:  Those who reviewed the report, including
ministers, officials, university staff and representatives of the Sudan Social-
ist Union, accepted the report's general thrust as sound and well balanced,
reflecting to a large extent the Government's own objectives. In particular
the relative emphasis between agriculture and industry in the productive
sectors was found appropriate. The discussion of education has proved to be
a useful stimulus to a debate which had evidently already started and which
will be continued in the course of the sector survey. The Government was in
full agreement on the need to improve resource mobilization, but is, naturally,
impressed with the difficulty of improving the marginal savings ratio sub-
stantially. Such an increase would obviously be easier in the context of
more rapid economic growth. The Government has yet, it seems, to develop
its views on the analysis of the incentive system. In general we feel that
the period of development of the next Plan will be the critical test of the
contribution of the report to the Government's thinking. The Sudan's Council
of Ministers has recently cleared the report for publication.
Short-Run Development Issues
18.       While the ILO Report focuses on the long-term issues facing the
economy, Sudan has to grapple with serious immediate problems which threaten
the prospects of achieving the really striking advances which are possible
over the next ten years. The short-run issues relate to the level and pat-
tern of investmen't:s, budgetary operations and cost-price relationships,
which have resulted in pressures on the budget and the balance of payments.
The balance of payments pressure has been exacerbated by recent world
recession and the sharply increased world prices of essential commodities.
Recession in the world textile industry resulted in a slow movement of cot-
ton exports at relatively low prices. In 1974, Sudan's cotton exports were
less than half the previous year's volume and a third lower in value. In
1975 export shipments increased over 1974, but were significantly below
annual export quan'tities in previous years and the value of cotton exports
($195 million) compares unfavorably with previous annual levels ranging
between $220 million (1970) and $240 million (1973). The IMF made compen-
satory financing payments to Sudan of SDR 18 million in March 1975, and
further payment of SDR 27 million in May 1976 for export shortfalls suffered
during this period.- Prices of essential imports have increased sharply so
that the va-lue of-'food and petroleum imports jumped from $106 million in
1973 to $265, million in 1975.  At the same time, increased public investment
coinciding with higher prices of capital goods increased substantially the
value of capital goods imports. Inflation also spilled over to higher demand
for consumer goods imports. All this resulted in sharp increases in the
current account d-ficit from $22 million in 1973 to $260 million in 1974
and $400 million in- 1975.
19.       In: order t'o improve the balance of payments situation in the
medium run,- the Gove-rnment has taken measures to reduce substantially the
acreage undert long staple cotton and to plant instead groundnuts and the
medium staple:v-arieties of cotton, world demand for which is more favora-
ble. It has also taken steps to increase wheat and sugar production and
to completely replace their imports in 3-4 years. The increase in the
capacity of Sudan railways and the opening of the Suez Canal are expected
to reduce the transport costs of exports.



-8-
20.       In the last two years, Sudan's external indebtedness has increased
considerably and, as of December, 1975, stood at about $980 million. A disturb-
ing feature of Sudan's external debt position has been the-rising proportion
of commercial short- and medium-term debt. While a rapid increase in pri-
vate and public capital inflows is essential to finance the development
program, it is equally important that the terms of public capital inflows
be as concessionary as possible. The Government informed the IMF of its
intention to avoid as much as possible adding to the already heavy debt
servicing burden by limiting further reliance on short- and medium-term
credit. The debt service ration reached 26% in 1974 dropped to 20% in 1975
and is expected to decline further this year as a result of the recovery in
the cotton export market. However, the balance of payments will undergo
further strain in 1977 as a result of pest infestation which is affecting
this year's crops of cotton and wheat.
21.       With regard to budgetary operations, public sector deficits con-
tinue to be the primary cause of excess aggregate demand and the resulting
inflationary pressures, but the Government is taking steps to improve its
financial position and maintain a policy of restraint in the expansion of
domestic credit. In particular, security expenditure has declined signi-
ficantly as a proportion of the budget. Steps are also being taken to
strengthen expenditure controls in the public sector and, while these meas-
ures may need time to be fully effective, the Government's aim is to allow
no more than a marginal increase in current expenditures in 1975/76. The
approved budget for 1975/76 did not introduce any new taxes, but some
measures have been taken, including the elimination of most subsidies
(notably that on sugar) and increases in utility rates. The latter are
expected to lead to a combined financial surplus of about US$18 million
for the Sudan Railways and the Public Electricity and Water Corporation,
compared to a deficit of the same order in 1974/75. Additionally, the
Bank of Sudan has reasserted control over the banking sector, and has
raised interest rates by two percentage points. Continued progress of
this kind would be needed to foster a stronger economy with a capacity
to support an expanded development program. In this connection, the IMF
is having discussions with the Government on fiscal, credit and balance of
payments issues.
22.       As a result of negative public sector savings the Government has
relied heavily on the much increased inflow of capital to give a major boost
to public investment, which had remained stationary during the period 1967-73.
From about $75 million in 1972/73 and $100 million in 1973/74, investment in
1974/75 is estimated to have jumped to $250 million, As important, the in-
vestment has been directed largely into the priority areas. Much is going
into eliminating the inadequacy of the transportation system, which is
undoubtedly the most serious immediate bottleneck to the development of
the economy. On-going projects in the transportation sector include the



construction of a road and an oil pipeline in the key Khartoum-Port Sudan
corridor and acquisition of railway rolling stock in order to increase the
capacity of Sudan Railways. Other priority investments are in sugar schemes
which are intended to eliminate imports and lead to exports in the late 1970's;
public support for irrigated agriculture through the Rahad project, whlich is
jointly financed by the Bank, the Government and other bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies; kenaf plantations, textile mills and expansion of wheat
production to achie-e self sufficiency. It is worth emphasizing that the
fruits of this investment in terms of higher output and higher exports will
not be forthcoming in the short run, but should begin to be apparent in the
late 1970's. The major infrastructure investments required for the development
of a country as large as Sudan dictate the need for a flow of concessionary
funds to Sudan. The current balance of payments problem and the emphasis
being given to the development of Sudan's considerable productive potential,
particularly in the agricultural sector, are additional reasons for continued
support from IDA and other sources of concessionary funds.
23.       Sudan is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window terms
on the basis of the following criteria:
(1)  Per Capita Income in 1972 - $120
(2)  Performance - A rapidly rising public investment program
and recent improvements in fiscal and economic management
are important steps toward improved development performance.
(3)  Ability to Repay - Sudan's strong resource base and good
medium term development prospects make it creditworthy
for a limited amount of Bank lending on intermediate
terms as proposed herein.
(4)  Access to Alternative Sources of Capital - Although Sudan
is expected to have access to substantial amounts of develop-
ment capital from the Arab countries, its ability to draw on such
funds will to an important extent depend on the availability
of well conceived investment proposals.    The Bank Group's
program of operations is designed to play an important catalytic
role in assisting Sudan to prepare and obtain finance for high
priority projects.
24.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, some momentum has been injected into Sudan's
economic development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment
during the last two years. However, Sudan faces balance of payments and
domestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst this is



- 10 -
a familiar problem in several developing countries, the medium-term prospects
for Sudan look particularly bright. These opportunities derive not only from
the ability to tap the surplus funds to the OAPEC countries and to serve
their expanded markets, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential
of the country. However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been
outlined in the preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects
are to be realized. The Government indicated its willingness to address
itself to these crn' ial issues at the review of the ILO report in October
1975. During preparation of the Six-Year Plan for 1977-83, a major oppor-
tunity exists to make substantial progress in the direction indicated by
the recent studies.  For the immediate future, the Bank can assist the
Sudan to achieve a higher momentum of development by helping channel
resources into the priority sectors in our project work, by extending
technical assistance to improve project identification, preparation and
implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
25.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $311
million and has been the country's largest single source of foreign aid.
A major portion of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and rail-
way projects. In addition we have lent for two power projects, two education
projects, a highways project, and three agriculture projects, and have made
two credits to a development finance company and a technical assistance credit.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC in-
vestments as of April 30, 1976 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
The Bank/IDA share of debt service is 13% (1974).
26.       Progress on Bank Group operations in the Sudan varies.   The high-
ways and mechanized farming projects are going quite well, but difficulties
in obtaining materials and weaknesses in management continue to slow down
implementation of most other projects. Three projects in particular have
encountered problems in implementation -- the First Education Project,
which was very slow in starting off, but,is now proceeding somewhat more
satisfactorily; the Third Railways Project, where progress towards improved
operational efficiency is very slow; and;the Rahad Irrigation Project which
has faced management problems and serious cost overruns. This project was
discussed by the Board last June when the supplementary credit for the
project was considered, and current progress on the progress is encouraging.
Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan have picked up in the last six months
and are running at a rate of about $35 million per annum. This rate should
increase further (see Annex II).
c
27.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group feels it can _render a useful service by assisting with
the identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with



the financing of these projects. The technical assistance credit approved by
the Board in February is designed to assist in this way. The Consultative
Group last met in 1973, and most of the member countries have developed
programs in Sudan, subsequently. A further meeting of the Consultative
Group is planned later this year.
28.       In the light of our better understanding of the economic prospects
and problems facing Sudan, the Bank Group's lending strategy will continue
to emphasize agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture
we will continue with a two-pronged strategy of investments to realize ex-
isting production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in traditional agriculture. Thus,
we have made a credit for a major irrigation project and are assisting
the Government in preparing projects in irrigation, mechanized farming and
livestock. In traditional farming we have lent for an Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project in the South and are working on a Savannah Development Project.
Last April the Board approved a Second Education Project, which emphsizes
training in the rural areas. We expect to develop future education projects
on the basis of the sector survey now in progress. Lack of transport faci-
lities continues to hamper movement of goods within the country and to the
outside world. The Third Railway Project is helping to improve rail transport
and design further necessary improvements in related transport facilities.
A Second Highway Project is under preparation, and included in the agricul-
tural rehabilitation program is about 350 miles of agricultural feeder roads
in the Southern Region. Further transportation projects in railways and
ports are under consideration with the Government, and expansion of domestic
aviation is the subject of this report. With the two credits to the Indus-
trial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private investment in
the growing industrial sector. The first power project, which developed
some of the hydro-electric potential of the Roseires Dam, was completed in
1972. A credit for the second power project, which will develop these
resources further and assist expansion of the electricity system, was approved
by the Board in 1975. This project is also laying the groundwork for future
expansion in electricity supplies. Other projects under consideration
include fisheries, telecommunications and water supply.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
29.       The last Eank review of the transportation sector was carried
out by a mission which visited Sudan in late 1971 and reported its findings
in June 1972 (Volume IV of Report No. AE-27). In summary, the report
concluded that cohesive development in the Sudan is hindered by the
considerable distances between potential areas of production and con-
sumption, which for the most part are not bridged by adequate and reliable
transport facilities. This summary remains valid, and for the most part
the transportation situation is very little changed now from that in 1971.
What has changed is that in the last two years the Government has undertaken
a very large investment program in the transportation sector as the spear-
head of its development program. This will have a progressively larger



- 12 -
impact on the economy from 1976 onwards. The following table illustrates
the scale of the increase in investment for fiscal year 1974/75 alone:
Public Sector Transportation Investment
(SUDE millions)
Annual              /      Annual
Average     Planned--a-    Average     Actual
1966-70     1971-75        1970-74     1974-75
Railways              3.2          14.1          1.6         1.7/
Ports                 0.3           0.1           -          0.6
River Transport      0.1            0.8          0.2         3.7
Roads                0.4           23.3          1.8         18.1
Oil Pipelines           -            -            -           0.7
Airports             0.1            1.3          0.2          1.5
Sudan Airways         0.3           5.0          1.3          5.0
Total.                4.4          44.6          5.1        31.3
/a   As of 1971.
lb   This figure understates the level of investment taking place
on the railways. Payments in 1975/76 are estimated to rise
to between SUD E 8 and 12 million.
The estimated higher level of expenditure in 1974/75 is expected to be main-
tained in subsequent years. Despite the higher capital cost of projects in
the last two years, undoubtedly a real increase in investment has taken place.
30.       The background to the much larger scale of investment has been
described in general terms in Part I of this report.   While the investment
decisions taken so far have been in response to a general conviction that
little significant expansion in the economy and particularly in agricul-
tural production could take place unless the necessarv transportation was
provided first, transport investment in the future is likely to be guided
more by explicit plans, sUch1 as the national plan for 1977-83 now under
preparation (se para. 38 below). Detailed analysis of several individual
investment possibilities is under way, and some details of these are pro-
vided in the following paragraphs.
31.       The Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) continues to be the backbone
of Sudan's transportation system, carrying about 70% of all freight and
passenger movements in Sudan. However, it continues to operate at a level
of efficiency below that attained in the mid-1960s. As a consequence of
this and of a low level of investment in past years, SRC has not been able
to carry all the traffic offered and has been providing an unsatisfactory
level of service. In short, the capacity of the railway has become a real



- 13 -
barrier to economic growth. The Government's response has been three-fold:
first, to authorize investment in the railway to eliminate equipment defi-
ciencies and shortages; second, to commission a detailed analysis of SRC's
technical operations to determine the causes of low efficiency and to plan
for improved training facilities; and third, to authorize investment in
other transportation facilities (an oil pipeline and a major road) to
reduce the economy's dependence on the railway system.
32.       The analysis of SRC's technical operations carried out by the
Australian Railw.ys has identified a variety of operational deficiencies
contributing to the low level of efficiency. Additional training and
recruitment of some additional technical skills is planned to help over-
come these deficiencies. SRC's recent teorganization is also intended to
improve management control of day-to-day operations. Current investment
on the railways includes a 50% increase in mainline diesel locomotives,
additional shunting engines, wagons, equipment upgrading and telecommuni-
cations. SRC is hopeful that, with this investment, it can improve oper-
ating efficiency. Systematic planning of further investment reqpuirements
is also under way. While the immediate needs are probably for additional
rolling stock and workshop facilities, studies are also about to commence
of the need for track improvements. For, whatever the attractions of motor
transport, the latter is unlikely for many years to be able to compete with
the railway on price in the long distance haulage of relatively low value
bulk agricultural produce, which will be the major surplus produce in
Sudan requiring transport.
33.       At the present time, Sudan is extraordinarily dependent on the
railway line to/from Port Sudan for movement of both its exports and
imports. The decision to authorize transport investment which will pro-
vide competition for SRC is one which could probably be challenged on the
basis of least-cost analysis, but in terms of Sudan's need for comprehensive
development of its infrastructure, it is probably the right solution. The
two major investments are an oil pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum, which
will both release railway capacity for general freight and release oil wagons
for up-country oil distribution, and the Port Sudan--Wad Medani road, which
will provide the first all weather road between the most productive regions
of Sudan and the port.
34.       The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) is responsible
for the national highway network. At present, this is a very ill-devel-
oped system, with only some 400 kilometres of bitumenized road. The in-
vestment currently under way will increase the length of modern roads by
about 300% within three years. Apart from the Port Sudan-Wad Medani road,
which is expected to cost in excess of $250 million, other road projects
under implementation include roads to serve major agricultural areas in
the Gezira region, and the upgrading of regional access roads in the Nuba
mountain region, in Darfur and to the Uganda frontier in the Southern Sudan.
Partly as a result of the lack of railway capacity and partly due to the cur-
rent investment boom, there has been a major increase in long distance motor



- 14 -
vehicle use.   Despite the rough road conditions, the numbers of road vehicles
entering and leaving Port Sudan on long distance journeys has increased from
about 1,300 vehicles a month in 1971 to about 8,000 vehicles in 1975, an
increase of over 500%. Current feasibility and engineering studies for
additional components of the trunk road network are underway and are ex-
pected to lead to further major investments within the next two years.
More attention will be given to the need for rural access roads as the
agriculture investw-vnt program is implemented. Clearly, the maintenance
capacity of RBPC and the provincial highway authorities will require up-
grading. This was a principal focus of IDA's first highway project and
will be emphasized in the proposed second project.
35.       Port Sudan, the only port in the country, is managed by the Sudan
Ports Corporation. While the port can handle the current level of traffic,
the investment under way and planned elsewhere in the economy will dictate
a need for additional port capacity. IDA financed studies currently in
progress will provide the basis for investment planning both at Port Sudan
and, when its expansion has reached the limits of the site, at Suakin, 40
kilometers further south.
36.       Southern Sudan is served by two methods of moving lower-value
freight--the railway branch to Wau and river transport to Malakal and
Juba. Railway capacity should benefit from the investment program de-
tailed above. A major investment program, in barges and tugs, is also
underway on the river. A recently-completed study of the River Transport
Corporation has provided the basis for planning future investment and has
identified technical assistance requirements.
37.        In view of the size of the country, over 2,000 kilometers long
and 1,800 kilometers broad, aviation is likely to play an increasing role
in meeting the domestic transportation needs. Whether looked at from the
standpoint of either the cost of creating alternative surface transport
or of travel time, aviation offers major advantages. Against this back-
ground, the Government has had to decide how to upgrade the services pro-
vided between Khartoum and the twelve principal regional airports, which
can be grouped into three or four sub groups. Upgrading of any one sub
group would benefit services to all the sub groups, by facilitating use
of faster, more efficient aircraft for more hours per day. The Govern-
ment's choice was .o work first on three southern airports and on Port
Sudan airport, the busiest of the regional airports. It has also acquired
two new aircraft for domestic services, which will expand the domestic ca-
pacity of the airline, Sudan Airways. Part IV of this report provides a
more detailed analysis of this sub sector.
38.       Until now, transportation planning has consisted chiefly of con-
sidering different technical options to meet a specific need, which could,
by and large, be assessed on the basis of common sense. Transportation
planning in the future, however, will become more complex. The major ex-
pansion in planned agricultural and industrial production will increase
the need for a capacity to assess the type and timing of transportation



- 1 5 -
investment. Questions of intermodal choice are beginning to emerge and
pricing questions need to be faced. Important analyses of the investment
needs of the sector over the next 10-15 years have been carried out recently
by the Associates for the Development of Arab Resources (ADAR) who prepared
a transportation master plan for the Sudan with Kuwait Fund financing, and
by the ILO mission. The ADAR studv contributed to the analysis of the
transportation needs of agriculture contained in the Arab Fund report on
the agricultural prospects of Sudan.    Some steps have been taken to create
an improved planning capability in the sector, and EDI has conductedl two
transportation project analysis courses in Sudan during 1975. I)iscussions
have also been in'_iated with a view to the creation of a planninP, unit in
the Plinistrv of Transportation, which would be able to continue the work-
initiated by the ADAR studv.   Meanwhile the Planning Section of the Ministry
of Finance is undertaking some transport-planning studies in connection with
the preparation of the Six-Year Development Plan (1977-83).
39.       Apart from road transport, all the modes of transport are oxned
by public corporations.   They are revenue earning enterprises, and should
be able to contribute usefully to the financing of transportation invest-
ment. Since one of the weaknesses of the Government's financial manage-
ment has been the low level of public savings, the next four paragraphs
examine the financial position of the public sector transportation corpo-
rations.
40.       By far the largest is the Sudan Railwavs Corporation (SRC).     For
the last four years net income of the railwavs has been negative, despite
several tariff increases.   Broadly speaking, the causes have been declining
traffic carried, sharp cost increases, notably in oil products, and tariff
levels which were still too low, a reflection of government endeavors to
minimize price increases affecting the cost of living. Since July 1975,
SRC's financial results have been better, and with the increase in tonnage
carried in the last six months, prospects for profitable operation are
encouraging. It is worth noting that the lines extending to the west and south
of the country are likely to require cross-subsidization by the rest of the
net work until the traffic reaches higher levels.
41.       Port Sudan has been consistently profitable for several years,
and the Seaports Corporation should be able to generate surpluses at a
level adequate to finance future expansion. The River Transport Corpo-
ration (RTC) has operated for the last ten years at a loss varying between
20% and 60% of op,rating costs. In the regions in which it operates, the
Corporation has a virtual monopoly. However, the regions served are among
the poorest and most remote in the country and it mav well be considered
justifiable at the present stage of development for the Government to sub-
sidize transport services in these regions. The Roads and Bridges Public
Corporation (RBPC) has no significant revenue and operates virtually as a
Government department.
42.       A detailed analysis of the Civil Aviation Department's (CAD) reve-
nues and expenses, shows that the Department generates a small surplus
after depreciation. The position projected after the higher level of invest-
ment contemplated is analyzed in detail in the apDraisal report for the



- 16 -
proposed project (Report No. 1029a-SU), and in Part IV of this report. In
summary, CAD is projected to earn a profit after depreciation and interest
payments from about 1985. Sudan Airways, after several years of unprofitable
operations, turned the corner in 1975 and is now projected to generate surpluses
adequate to cover its depreciation and interest payments and pay a dividend
to the government.
43.       Thus the financial performance of the transport corporations
varies widely and, !1 the aggregate, is just adequate. They are not far from
being able to contribute adequately to financing needed for future investment.
44.       Experience with past transportation projects in Sudan has been
satisfactory, except for the persistent-problem of the decreasing opera-
tional efficiency of the railways, which has responded only slowly to measures
taken to improve the situation. As indicated at paragraph 40, however, some
improvement is taking place and SRC is more hopeful that the measure outlined
at paragraph 32 above will prove effective. Given the critical importance
of transportation to development, there needs to be constant attention to the
operational and financial strength of the transport corporations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Domestic Aviation Project"
(No. 1029a-SU dated May 28, 1976) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The detailed design work was carried out by the
Civil Aviation Department and their consultants, Brian Colquhoun and
Partners. The project was appraised in May 1975, and negotiated in Washing-
ton in February 1976. The Sudanese delegation was led by the Under Secre-
tary for Planning, Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy and
included the Director of Civil Aviation.
Project Selection
46.       In considering the development of domestic aviation the Sudan
Government had to make two important and related investment decisions--
with what aircraft should it replace and supplement its aging Fokker air-
craft; and what airnort development should take place. Sudan Airways even-
tually concluded that the Boeing-737 aircraft would best meet the require-
ments of its domestic and short range international services-a conclusion
which had implications for airport design and development. This new and very
efficient aircraft has much greater capacity than the existing aircraft and
yields much lower unit operating costs. Its introduction will release exist-
ing aircraft for use on other routes. Purchase of additional aircraft of
the same type as those currently used would not have met the needs, partly



- 1 7 -
due to the restrictions imposed by the long distances. So far as airport
development is concerned, the best way to maximize the benefits of the
new aircraft is by developing the three or four groups of regional airports,
rather than individual airports. Consideration was given to the western
group of airports, which is also important, but following the end of the
civil war, and in view of the distances from Khartoum, climatic and soil
considerations and traffic levels, the Government opted for the southern
group (Juba, Wau and Malakal), together with the busiest regional airport
at Port Sudan, whici is the only port, the second city and a rapidly growing
commercial and industrial center. These airports, which account for 46%
of the domestic passenger flow, lie between 665 and 1,250 kilometers from
Khartoum. For purposes of comparison, the distances from Bombay to Delhi
and Madras are 1133 and 1030 kilometers respectively, and that from Washington
to St. Louis is 1145 kilometers. Port Sudan is a meteorological alternative
to Khartoum, which is subject to closure in dust-storms.
47.       The growth in passenger traffic has been rapid in recent years,
doubling from 1968/69 to 1973/74, despite capacity limitations. Passen-
ger traffic is projected to grow at 14-18% per annum until 1980 and 10%
per annum thereafter. Air freight traffic has been severely curtailed
by the same capacity limitations, which makes projections very difficult.
All experience elsewhere supports the projection of rapidly rising traffic
as the larger, low cost aircraft are introduced.
Description and Purpose
48.       The project would consist of the construction of two new airports
at Port Sudan and Wau, complete with runway, taxiway, terminal buildings and
all essential facilities; reconstruction of the runway and terminal building
and provision of adequate ancilliary facilities at Malakal; construction
of a new terminal building and related ancilliary works at Juba; supervision
of these works; purchase and installation of communications, navigational
and maintenance equipment at the four project airports; and technical
assistance and training for the Civil Aviation Authority. The Building
of new airports at Port Sudan and Wau was selected as preferable to recon-
struction of the existing ones, due to the proximity of the neighboring
towns and other physical limitations of the sites. The facilities to
be financed would be modest in scope but would be adequate for traffic
volumes expected over the next fifteen years. Port Sudan airport would
be adequate to accept traffic diverted from Khartoum and would have special
facilities for pilgrimage traffic. The facilities to be provided would meet
the objective of developing an airport system capable of receiving larger,
more productive aircraft than at present, thus reducing the constraints to
traffic growth, and permitting Sudan Airways to become a more efficient
domestic airline. On-going investment in services for the airports will
limit the need for complementary investment, although water supply for
Port Sudan airport will be essential.



- 18 -
CoEstimate and Financing
49.       The total project cost, including contingencies amounting to 39%
of the total, would be $86 million, excluding taxes and duties. The for-
eign exchange component is $65.0 million, 76% of the total cost. Of the
total cost excluding contingencies, 56% would be accounted for by runway
and other pavements, and 22% by building and road-works. Costs vary con-
siderably from airport to airport, depending upon subsoil conditions and
the nature of the facilities to be provided, but the remote location of
three of the four airports makes the project relatively expensive. Physical
contingencies allowed are not particularly high since the sites are small
and well studied. Price contingency provisions are relatively high, however,
and since there is very little experience with civil works construction on
this scale in Southern Sudan to provide a guide to likely costs, a special
risk contingency of 10% on the costs of the southern airports has been
included in the cost estimates. The cost estimates were built up on the
basis of recent construction contracts awarded in other parts of Sudan and
neighboring countries.
50.       The Government would meet the local costs of the project.   The
proposed loan of $20 million on 'Third Windowt terms and credit of $9
million would finance most of the foreign exchange costs of Wau and Malakal
airports, plus the foreign exchange costs of maintenance equipment, design
engineering, accountancy consultants and technical assistance and training
for CAD. The Saudi Fund is expected to finance the cost of Port Sudan
Airport and the Government has undertaken to finance the Juba airport
component as part of the Six-Year Plan for the period commencing July 1,
1977. The Saudi contribution is expected to be provided on concessional terms
as part of a package of financial assistance, for which negotions are well
advanced. Completion of the arrangements for Saudi Fund participation is a
condition of effectiveness of the loan and the credit (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement).
Construction Supervision
51.       The project would be executed by the Civil Aviation Department
with the assistance of its consultants. The latter are currently working
on architectural and engineering final designs and specifications with
financing provided under IDA Credit 457-SU.
Staff and Training
52.       The Civil Aviation Department is part of the Ministry of Defense
and is manned partly by military personnel.   However, CAD functions as a
civilian government department and most CAD officials are transferred to
civilian status while with the department. CAD is developing an airport
engineering design and construction unit capable of executing small proj-
ects and maintenance work.   For large contracts, consultants and contrac-
tors are to be engaged, but their work would be supervised by the new
unit. IJNDP and ICAO are financing a program of technical assistance and



- 19 -
training of CAD staff. Additional technical assistance and training of
CAD staff would be financed under the project, especially in construction
and maintenance supervision, in economic and commercial fields and in
accountancy.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Contracts financed by the Bank Group for civil works and for
provision and instal.ation of equipment would be awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines
for Procurement." Interested contractors would be subject to prequalification.
During the construction phase between 1000 and 1500 laborers of varied skills
would be employed. CAD would handle all electronic equipment procurement
and either install it themselves or employ contractors. Qualified domestic
contractors would receive 7-1/2% preference. It is possible that Sudanese
firms, in joint venture with foreign firms, might be in a position to bid
for contracts. The IDA credit will be disbursed before the loan. (See
Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Dis-
bursements will be made against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of items
to be financed, except for the civil works component. For this category
disbursement will be against 90% of the foreign exchange cost.
Financial Aspects
54.       The Civil Aviation Department currently operates under a bud-
getary control system, like other Government Departments, all revenue
accruing to the Sudan Government. Capital expenditure is met by the Govern-
ment. The accounting system is inadequate and should be replaced with
one designed to supply information by airport and by classifications
necessary to formulate and review user charges. It is proposed that
the project finance consultants to assist CAD in making the necessary
changes. (See Section 4.02 and the Annex to Schedule 2 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 2). The accounts are subject to
annual audit by the Auditor General.
55.       The Government intends that CAD's earned revenues should be suf-
ficient to enable it to recover capital costs and contribute funds towards
the future development of civil aviation. Any excess of revenues over ex-
penses is currently -etained by the Government and can be considered as
a contribution towards the acquisition of capital assets. CAD revised
its tariff schedule on July 1, 1975 and the current rates are assumed
to continue until project completion. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on future financial objectives for CAD. For this purpose, CAD was
treated as though it was an independent public corporation rather than a
Government department. These objectives include maintenance on average of
a 50:50 debt/equity ratio; straight line depreciation on periodically re-
valued assets; and revenues from 1983 sufficient to cover operating expenses
and either debt service attributed to it or depreciation, whichever is
greater. On the basis of these objectives tariff assumptions were agreed
and these have been used in making proforma projections of CAD's financial
position. These assumptions provide for tariff increases in 1981 for



- 20 -
overflight and navigation charges and for landing fees for different types
of aircraft. The fees levied by Sudan would then be high, but not ex-
cessive, by international standards.
56.       In preparation of the proforma projections, the funds required for
this project were treated as if $35 million equivalent was a loan at
8-1/2% interest, $38 million was in the form of Government equity and
$7.2 million would be internally generated. If required, the risk contingency
would be made available as additional equity. Throughout the projection period
CAD's revenues would cover expenses, including depreciation, except for the
period 1981-82, immediately after the new airports are completed. Ex-
cept for the initial construction period, CAD's operating income would
not cover interest on long term debt until 1986, but it would be covered
in total during the period of the forecast. Of the four individual air-
ports, only Malakal and Port Sudan would cover operating expenses, but
not until 1989 and 1990 respectively. Thus the aviation system as a
whole would be subsidizing travel to the four airports. The reason for
this is the higher operating costs of the four airports after improvement
by comparison with such costs at other regional airports before improve-
ment, and with the lower unit operating costs at Khartoum airport. This
higher recurrent cost is acceptable, as the project and non-project air-
ports using the B-737 are likely to cover their operating cost in total.
The project airports are essential segments of the B-737 system. It
is also acceptable as a contribution to the economic integration of
the country. Considering CAD and Sudan Airways together, and excluding
transfer payments between them, operating income after depreciation, but
before interest payments, would be positive throughout the projection
period. Incremental profits earned by the project up to 1990 would be
about SUDE 17 million after depreciation. The overall financial internal
rate of return would be about 10%. CAD would have positive cash balances
from 1982 onward.
57.       Since the project would permit Sudan Airways to earn consider-
able cash surpluses through the expanded usage of its new, more efficient
aircraft, a more favorable financial result could have been assumed, if
a larger share of the benefits had gone to CAD. However, since both enti-
ties are fully owned by the Government, the distribution of the financial
benefits of the project between CAD and Sudan Airways has no effect on the
Government's fina-ices. The increased charges proposed in the previous
paragraph would leave substantial cash surpluses with Sudan Airways,
which it will need to meet its own investment requirements.
Justification
58.       The general case for air transport in Sudan rests on the extremely
low density of the road network, the physical constraints on rail and river
transport and the very large size of the country. For many years to come,
air transport can offer not only speed and the lowest costs on many routes
for passengers and selected freight commodities, but in many cases the only
practical means of travel. The cost of creating alternative ground systems



- 21 -
of transportation would be prohibitive in the short term. On account of
the country's size, Sudan is likely to have a relatively large domestic
aviation sub-sector. Air travel can be an important aid to the cohesive
development of the economy.
59.       The major sources of quantifiable benefits of the project would
be the much lower operating cost of more efficient, jet aircraft which
the project would permit, compared with the existing propeller-driven
aircraft; the higher utilization of aircraft which would be facilitated
by the installation of night landing aids, and the increased revenues
which will accrue when Sudan can offer adequate services to overflying
aircraft. Passenger time savings could be counted, but these are marginal
to the project's economic justification, Unquantified benefits would in-
clude elimination of the current excessive waiting time, due to the
inadequate capacity of the existing aircraft; and improved marketability
of high value commodities produced in the Southern Region resulting from
decreased transport costs and the extra capacity which would be created.
The economic costs of the project exclude about $3.8 million of invest-
ment which are necessary merely to permit the current services to continue
in reasonable safety.
60.       Excluding passenger time savings, the estimated economic return
for the total project would be 18%. For the three southern airports the
return would be 15% and for Port Sudan 22%. For airport lighting and
navigational aids the return would be 16%. The effect of shadow pricing
of foreign exchange is negligible, since it affects the cost and benefit
streams almost equally.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan and, respectively, the
Bank and the Association and the Report and Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, respectively, and the texts of draft resolutions approv-
ing the proposed loan and the proposed development credit are being distributed
to the Executive Di.ectors separately.
62.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
described in paragraphs 53, 54 and 55 of this report.
63.       An additional condition of effectiveness will be the conclusion
by the Borrower of co-financing arrangements with the Saudi Fund for the
proposed new airport at Port Sudan.



- 22 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association and
with established criteria for Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1976



ANNIX I
Page 1 of . pages
TABLE IA
SUDAN                  - SOCIAL IMOICATORtS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KANS----------                                   --  --------------
---------------                          ~~~~~~SUOAN                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       2505.8                                             MOST RECENT
ARABLE           ..1960                                  1970    ESTIMATE             KENYA            EGTPT            MOROCCO
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                           100.0        1 10. 0       1 30. 0               140.0        21 0. 0      27 0.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR.     MILLION)              11.9          15.7         17.1                  11.2         33.3         04.8
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQUARE KM.                               5.0          6.0           7.0                 19.0          33.0         33.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARAALE LAND.                              18.9            ...                            9 37.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE MIRTH RAkTE PER THOUSAND              52.0 /a      4 9. 0       4A8.I                 48 .0         35.0         5 0.0
CRUDE DEAkTH RATE PER THOUSAND              19.0a/     0        18. 0  11.0                 18.            5.0         17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (IT!:OU)             94.0O   a        ..                              55.0        11 6.
LIVE EXPECTANCY AT MIRTH       TARS)           .         4 8. 0       51.0                  48.0O         90.0         51.0O
DROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                       ..3. 4                    3.4                  3 .4          3. 0         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                        2. 9         2. 9          2.8                  3. 1          2. 5         2.5
URBAN                                        4.0          5.0           5.0 /a               7.0           4.0          4.4
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)                  8.0          12.0         13.0                  10.0         42.0          35.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 1 4 TE ARS                            4~~T   4.0 .b. 5 048a.0                                     4 4.0         446.0
15 TO 44 TEARS                              51.0  b       2. 0           ..49.0                           52.0         5 1.3
A5 TEARS AND OVER                            2.0 /b       3. 0            .4 .0                            4.0          3.0a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                           1.0 /b        0.9           .                     .            .             .
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1. 6          1.5 /a        .                    11 I          1  /a,b       :
FARMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)......                                                                      2 00. 0        67.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)......                                                                           9.0          3.0
EMPLOYMRENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                41800.0/     51 00. 0     74 00.0 /b            5100.01b      8 300. 0 /
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE Il)                6 8401        80.0           .                   90.0 IL      so 3.o I
UNEMIPLOYED (2 OF LABOR FORCE)                   .....                                                         . 0
INCOME DISTRIRUTION
2 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HICHES T   50 OF POPULATION                 20.9 /d        ...                              20 .2 Is.
HIGHEST 20% OF POPULATION                   50. 1          ...                              52.44
LOASET 200 OF POPULATION                     5.0 0         ...                               3.15
LOWEST 402 OF POPULATION                    13.-9 PI       I.I..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED AT TOP 102 OF OWNERS                     .                          ..
0 OWNED AT SMALLEST lox DINERS......
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  3 0000. 01    15940.0      1366044. 0             7830.010     1910.0/d    11327 0. 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               472O:04O!    1 950. 0      0 94 0.0a            04 70.        1440.0/d
POPULAtION PER HOSPITAL BED                 1 010 .0     10340. 01 -b                         770.0        4460.0       490.01
PEW CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (l OF REQUIREMENTS)                81.0         91 .0        9 2. 0               1 0 1.0        9 4.0        9 9 .0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAT)                     55.0         63.0         43.0                  71.0          64.0         44.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                  ..         24.01                             29.3         14.0          14.01
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1D4......
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                              17 .0        2 5.0            .6 7 .0                         70.0         55.0
SECONDART SCHOOL                             5.0          9.0 a                               9 .01e      3 3.0        1 2.0
YEARS OF SCMOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                    12 .0        0 2.0        1 2.0                  1 3. 0       1 2 .0       02 .0
V0CRATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                             0. 0         1.1           2. 0                 2.0          1 9. 0        2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                         L. 9.0                      .3 0 .0                         40.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                       ..         2.51           ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (1)                               .          34. 0 /c.d      ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                          ..         264  /.G/d      ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)......
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 1. 0            .         8 0.0o                48.0        0)32. 0        40.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                  t5.0          2. 0         2. 0                  9 .0         4. 0         1 5. 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                   8.0         25.10         18.0                  48 .0       228. 0       0 28.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                      0. 1          0. 2         0.1          -        0. 5         1. 0          0.?
.--   -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  -- -  - -  - -  - -- - - -  - -  - - -  - -  -    - -  - -  - - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



tiLesotltcs~'ia tiree.Iiti foe 19111 refer co 19li-at, far 1970 ,c 1968-70). -ai. C-- rIs  [ore  csort   1971-73,
Bores) "Ic laor clurft  on art -.1 nljuuu i- e"nnlciv tnetten  ne-alit a  c ,imil an' hen (ole  cf itator  ac  o f potn,ilaci on Precoe  inpcr.e
91-5 IL0,/N                    1 9 51;  lb  1 977;  t- 'I l:    d  1963. ineila(ia,-er--tiorh-)         It-o     , Inld ing s i ]s?icro  md  ir lIo I Ite
07    /a  Ibteiti of poel te  ttte   15 anY It and eve  to tonal SAler fac;     o    cncta Y.e...l ero-ic--ett           'ity~
ic  ]91-'t-h ;  7  Urban  ely
U-c'i t-r'; kIoAli  H     di-B,     1   Eunitnjltally scedoccine-oteoa
191 Ii l'ia   of jip -a ttt     -dr  19   65U niad -oo  to talc r- 1iui  goI-Id Ymca     in  ta     oter in,, no-ug     ,-e   --
LI -ri             '.I  ! _ a-  1 9At  /b  a tin oIf geia de ode     11 and 65 -ud n-ru   1:'Sb-r free  ag   -f    or,      t   I tot term  0     1  ,45 cit's
Total   Ttaco  orto   arsa cotrirpiing land area and inland wacern.                    -ing "-i3e an-i  anal  rodriaco ni-scr-  itac   ni e             niiul  tron,,,
recent5 umntineace no leaod area~ etned tamernarliy r~ cernnriitolyol'a               reto,    i-o   c   Win'h -ra,~en           cr
for  -'ali-t Oatk                  r_- -,las       o_t Ii    fl o_
red pilne-c aor    nInd sDcnalz-eb'l iopi l
011k         1   7" ~~~~~per capics, eattimaes oh market pricer.  aanend re"a.blel 'ineC            coo c-as nxciadea nirre'iore h .e n  cnd -h3 isnmrtca
-. cahed as W~orld Bank Ail.r (17-i      ac)                   oo'c   todir' and Drv-tsocre
- - -  -' i~  ' - As of July firsat; if nov. -aviehble, average        -pnie, ecr day  -%aitlrae sttppl.-l comnprisetnCie    prod.ic?.tori,
'prit 0 I e- x Oman" e-on esatng- itc eto-kin notoupi era exeloido
-' I   ''r  -o                pea' cqstantr kilo-          r<o~~,mloo  feed, seends  qucolilies  an-0 ia flood proccaritig~ and 1ornes
- i '                    H~~~~~~~~id-year popnlatiain per                     dlvlcitktatcnn; rqrp -crnn  were -ctocraced hIn CAP hi-ed on ptznt.
'-- a..                                                 elgiral nerr   _Os~ nar'i_]           i                  i',!   er,"o"-
Fnn,ntiialetn-";cil''  per k-can e of' uartle la,nd - Comaputed ar above far           rita    cseo"                 .~t0e-vt~e-c -d a-  I 0'   c  rn' t1 Ppenn
aliab- Laid) onoaciae                                                                          it Id   ri  111" -or  ',ntne, '  1- tattird or-en
75 'ci rtfuisi-ai                                                                                                                       I '--  '    4-   U' an
:otado hunkh rain Der thctnnaii~ - Oouaal live births per tic-viarel of told-           atiolcq'i-no-ner-    'Or'- n-  eco"n' LccInheu loy ulS1t i'rc"'ioc
year ueeueir.       alcly five-year averagesenodinig in i9f;2, 1977. and              Reeror-h Seen,i-s p'e-"ide fr , tenant  ltrr cf i        grar o1,u-  att il
19275 Stir' t,leoipingp nvittr,ie.                                                   prtetorn,     c   erA 0. go' it orecoa     ,d p'-- e p-ct ic, tickjo   1.
* ' '  -    ,   ' ' Anninriol ileatlins pe.' ch-seod fS old-year          a'-coi-l       i  "tatoaoi,tt"'at hi Utan.                "-la    t,e-n
-  i  - - - ~~~averages onri:rg in, lo6o, 1,970 and 1975          of 75 oro       --a 3 orcra" aidA t> a!rena ut ecrtl omitt - .-; no as 02-
f~ oe ne oiPPing .ou0ntr-ea                                                          age far th01 -ar1d, -,opopeaei'n'cA pinI  t  ""let1 5t0n'B aced i-cn'sv;.
1-  -H          ~~(otCn.  -  A non)i   deaths  of  infantr  tirader  orne  year                                                    Pr__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - lotlaam  onycly  of  fenod
- -                   1    or~~~~~~~~l'rage annrinnr ofY-ta  of lile cetan                                  I"n. -P t'- a       ' ca 4c     g  group 1-).
ve-a nalrol-g in, 19511, 19711 and isi75                                  - tvgonsoo           - n c    i'tdzlntcr n- val-
ir-on rmrw~o' c o r-tAo - A-er,eg neither ef lire daughters a crooan trill
eoar    hc' r-n1rpvle"            er-iod if at.e :eo'<erleenee prerent age-        Edcr-tioz-
aproctiv tcci cc a -alan' -icily five-year arerag,en ending to 1965,           A                                             'errllrteni of all ogen an
ye7- nod 0079; for -l--llcaonirlo                                                                                                   a   edo     --iureiot aged
Pontli                              --rpeuad annual Fgroin-.h roles of old-            n6-it yacro no  edit,E r-d for ' ff 00cclo t  i ef nii-noar~ education,
ye                        , -~~~~~~~~~~~ ~arod 1960 no moo- revert yroar,   for-  i  rion- -o'"rna        odir'- n   c       i,inoi n       lon  i ,-
Pit-                   - Cotnpivtosl 1dm  ~~~~~~~~g-r,,h rate of local    a ire scee rpt o1 a-   'l" orTO ar--c thn   iirela      o   n
7v                      ef trIal rate. may affect coerpero-                                                          1   f"',t-p ki on aiO-; seeitnac-
nnlIr t of dant an"rot  c..roea'...                                                                                               cf aer-ved primar'y ittotruc-
-- - ' -  ' '        In ef i~~~rbn teri  total Ppuplathion;            thoc; pra'rc,io general . vcLinoal or teacher    -ircitirg  rtviuotto  ta-r
S - '  I  ' '  n roari areao nay affect cerepao'oblity of date              pupils of 12 to 17 fact o 00K a  ol eo-opoicden    ---'eo  ar  gcrao
acting cotaititlec.                                                                   nridd
it-   - &---   -  - So,lds re (0-14la eors), working ago (15-64 yo..ros,       'fears of rchoolteg cravided (,firet and second levelo) - Tacal yearn of
-           ~~~~~and ov,er) no percentages of mid-year populationl.         sehooli-tgt ot aec,,eda- level, v-rlininicru-ti- cry fe portie1ly
enD of peo-zlati,o, onder 15 and 65 mvd aver tO              or cneItiletly noccluded,        '       NciciiaaiotocBiid
______________________  Pncon if papr.aiion tinder ii aId 65 and over          '        Lt  . a -   L -             -'which oporsto indcpender.t7.y
-g- group of15-66 peac,san on dep,artments ofoeo--ory inoiie-uti-o.
-  i    u-' - fcanlati,ve tnuzer of       I   titraf      ae(      - it,erate odulta3 (able, In road -nrc8waite) as
-           - - -        'ro  - '-t~-cocoonof national family                 -eieia0TTF          iPo ltc Pac,Itiiou aged 15 ye-arn nd near
rlnonrogprogram no-to  i--eptiona.
I -   n)-Percen     etiof married               Holseing.
-  F""T""""". - ."7"'wba use hirti-ovotrol decicen      Pomona per roan (average) - Averageerngeunhebeofopop onso per rare .cIoccupied
en il ta,ivred cvirt to same age groor.                                            cot,,enliognl dizoililge in cob-t ar-e-a-; d-waeliiogo e-oldo ooc"peroesoe
titraot.;roa and uioccupIed parts.
acc~id daellrpo Withouat pined water (     -   plscird ononentia...l dwell-
force (s 'ocarl)  Mocaicelly actve pereone  includinglnego in lran, ard srorl areas Wit-nut innide or outeide piped waler
arneod~ fvvoe arid unmcpln"rd trlti itcluding honiase'ioea0, ottidene, ate.;         faiiiasa percentage of all occupied 6-dineige.
neneOc"   no rt"ona onruotcies are cat comip-aabie.                          Acocens to electrnietV ( of oil dwlolitnen) - ganvotntiorial dwelli,,gs wIth
___________  Agricutsural lab,or force (Sac farniung,             electricity  nlvn      ures0        occto      ca    wllg       nnra
..   spercentage of ntotl labor foree.                eaSd rirai artear.
v,        I '1    ' t            lnenplnojd are usually defined as personso           Raral drallnie   onaeted to electricity (       C)m-t,erptie or above for rural
I  alake a job, out c-f a lob onr a giano day,                se'ngoly
,e';isaed nto      joban ~d reeking weorI for a specifiedi minSooco
peritid no-  coeln,n      weal: ray net he cnnrorahlo Potaeen contr.riesP. 2pppi~           on
dite te different dfnittiion  ef uinemployed and sain-ce of dote, e.g.,            Pi&i'6"r71aers (Der thn     ep  -Al typan of o-ecelea fec radio l-in      -
enopioy-teo  efine.            satltOo  otle 5t50"veysn caliplsoBry uoeroploymenoc   carts i.e genorel pnholc pethounand of popelatiot; ex-ciodes en-
Insurance.                                                                           licenoed receivers do countries and ir years When cegirat-tie of
radi- noe- -can An effect; data for recent poears nay rot he cnopjarrale
Tncane, Adenrlcib on - Pernontoge of private intone (benD in cash and                  ainer moot neentrieo abolished lice-nIng.
kiod) roe-v-d by 5llol.0, riOeseo      20%n poorest 20%, and poorent               Pasoeneer oars (per thou nap) - Peanmiger earn    eopreiae onion' cars reat-
LOA of  nalotint -                                              lug~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l_ean tha  elgIt. parrerm; excladoaedalace hoenscoe d
Di strjl,~~~.-        Flmio     entegn.  ofln       .e   y~tEliecriciety (Iw/pe r cap) - Annual consoup,ilon of inid-itrial, eaoner-
-7._~~~~ 7  `-1-d  cune'n. ~~~~~~~~clol, p"olcIS and private electricity in, kilowatt hears per capital
geoearlly' based ono nrodiction done, withouat allowanoe for lasses in
ealt,h cad I1tnjiritiot                                                                grids lot allowing for imports anid exports of electricity.
Pa-.-I''           --1       opalation divided ire number of practticiong            llewBpnrint (khe/vr par capl - Per capita annuital oorsraoption lot keilogroos
- C 'i: - -    -   ti ~~~endina1 school at arlvamsity- level.                 eatiboetd from donestic orodueeion pluis neel tepor-tn of newsrprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1972                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       ,                      1960 -65          1965 -70          1972
GNP at Market Prices         2,143.4     100.0
Gross Domestic Investment      218.6      10.2
Gross National Saving          179.5       8.4
Current Account Balance        -39.1      -1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          361.3      16.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          385.4      18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Addedl/               Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                _Mn                            us $ 
Agriculture                  693.3      38.2
Industry                     273.4      15.0
Services                     849.4      46.8
Una4located
I  Total/Average        1,816.1    100.0                 ..       100                   ..        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
Mln.         %ofG     of GDP           (     Mln.)        %    of GDP2/
197          197        196 -7                1974       1972        1970- 72
Current Receipts                   *-           *-          *-                 210.3        21.8         23.3
Current Expenditure               *-            *_                             190.5        21.5         22.4
Current Surplus                    *-           *-          *-                  19.8         0.3          0.9
Capital Expenditures3/                                                          50.7         4.0         403
External Assistance (net)                                                       26.6         1.4          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              Fyl969       FY1970      Fy1971     FY1972      FY1973      FY1974
(Million LSioutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  110.2        123.1       130.6      158.3       196.6       258.7
Bank credit to Public Sector            62.6         90.1       112.2      139.6       152.6       196.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector           74.0         79.0        83.9       98.9       113.9       141.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of .DP       17.2         21.1        20.8       18.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         ..           ..
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                      ..          ..          ..
Bank credit to Public Sector            53.1         43.9       24.5        24.4         9.3        28.8
Bank credit to Private Sector            4.6          6.8        6.2        17.9        15.2        24.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered, which was unchanged throughout at LS1=US$2.872
1/ At factor cost
2/ At market prices
3! Expenditures from Development Budget (includes come capital expenditures by other public entities).
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page L of h pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973      1974                                                US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         289.7     393.2     351.8                 Cotton                          191.8     53.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         325.2     344.7    560.8                 Gum Arabic                        29.5     8.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -355       48.5    -209.O                 Groundnuts                       34.0      9.5
Sesame                            30.3     8.4
Interest Payments (net)       -14.5     -12.5     -20.8
Workers' Remittances             -          -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)    -1.2     -16.0     -29.0
Net Transfers                   6.2       1.9       0.4              All other commodities               75.1     20.8
Balance on Current Account    -45.0      _79T   -257.8                     Total                        360.7   10Q.0
Direct Foreign Investment       0.3       -         3.8            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               47.7      62.9    314.2                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                34.9      47.3      72.2
Subtotal                   12.8       15.6    242.0               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             980.0
Capital Grants                   -         -         -               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            31.4     -17.1      16.1              Total outstanding & Disbursed
OthWr items n.e.i              14.8     -39.9       7.7                                        1/
Increase in Reserves (+)      -14.3     +19.5    -10.8             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
Gross Reserves (end year)     30,9       52,8    106.6
Net Reserves    (end year)  -111.5      -92.0   -102.8                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed            26.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                     18.0       26.3     87.3
of which:  Petroleum      17.9       22.7     78.6
Exports                       2.6       3.1     n.a.
of which:  Petroleum        2.6       3.1     n.a.       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US $):2/
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       -_-
Outstanding & Disbursed              72.7         44.9
Throuph   -  1974                                               Undisbursed                            -         141.5
US $ 1.00 = LS 0.348                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        72.7        186.4
1.00 = US $2.872
Since March 1972 Effective Rate of Exchange Ls. 1.00 - US$2.50 for all transactions except for the proceeds from
cotton and gum exports which are converted at the official rate.
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
5/ On April 30, 1976.
not available
not applicable
June 1, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of April 30, 1976)
Amount (US$ Million)
Undis-
Credit No..  Year  Borrower            Purpose              Bank   IDA  bursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                    127.2 14.9
Credit 122   1968   Sudan      Education I                          8.5   5.1
Credit 311   1972   Sudan      Mechanized Farming II               11.3   7.7
Credit 331   1972   Sudan      Highways I                           7.0   2.2
Credit 364   1973   Sudan      Rahad Irrigation                    42.0  33.4
Credit 364-2 1975   Sudan      Rahad (Supplement)                  20.0  20.0
Credit 447   1973   Sudan      Industriai Bank of Sudan I           4.0   0.6
Credit 457    1974   Sudan     Railways III                        24.0  19.7
Credit 476    1974   Sudan     Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project                           1O.P- 9.3
Credit 547   1975   Sudan      Education II                        10.0  10.0
Credit 564   1975    Sudan     Power II                            23.0  22.5
Credit 589   1975   Sudan      Industrial Bank of Sudan II          7.0   7.0
Credit 614   1976    Sudan     Technical Assistance                 4.0   4.0
186.4 141.5
Total -
Of which has been repaid                                   54.5   1.6
Total now outstanding                                        72.7 184.8
Amount sold                    5.8
Of which has been repaid     5.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                            72.7 184.8
Total Undisbursed                                             -   141.5 141.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
Type of      (Amount in US$ Million)
Year            Obligor                 Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1964 and  Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles   1.87     0.34     2.21
1972
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                       8.71     1.26     9.97
Total gross commitments                   10.58     1.60    12.18
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     1.67    0.07      1.74
Total commitments now held by IFC          8.91     1.53    10.44
Total Undisbursed                          4.71     1.03     5.74
/a   Includes grant  participation of $5.35 million, of which $4.4 million is
undisbursed.
lb   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and thirteen credits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122 First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Da_e: January 4, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply short-
ages continue to interrupt construction. Disbursements have picked up and
are now going more smoothly. Sliglht cost overruns will be met by the Gov-
ernment. Extension of the Closing Date is likely. We are continuing to
monitor the project closely.
Credit No. 311 Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan - 1.038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended
by 75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road
construction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on
road improvements and construction of a training centre are still behind
schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized farming
have identified a large area for possible development in the southwest of
the country. Disb rsements are picking up and should grow quite rapidly
now.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 331 Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29, 1972;
Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also included are feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Minisir-,
of Transport in trar,Mort planning and training of RBPC staff, The project 13
progressing satisfactorily on the whole. Although the consultants reports
were delayed, implementation of some of the recommendations is under way and
following the award of contracts for equipment and spare parts, disbursements
should be rapid now. The consultants have completed work on the feasibility
studies of 600 km of roads and detailed engineering of 480 km of roads has
been commissioned. These studies are likely to form the basis for a second
highway project in the future.
Credit No. 364 and 364a Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of
March 30, 1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates: August 29, 1973 and
November 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of agri-
cultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of about
14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary infra-
structure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Although work got off to a slow start in 1974, there has been good
progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement of equipment in 1975.
The new management structure for the project is a distinct improvement.
Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes occurred and an
increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975.   The remaining increase of $81.5
in the foreign exchange cost will be financed by the Kuwait Fund ($39 mil-
lion), the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund ($14.5
million). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the project,
totalling $80 million. Progress during the current construction season has
been satisfactory n most respects, but the schedule is demanding and delays
could occur.
Credit No. 447 First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$4 Miillion Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan
to function more effectively in financing industrial development in the
private and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet



ANNEX II
Page 4
IBS' requirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975,
but business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved sub-
projects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected
to be completed in 1976.
Credit No. 457 Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31, 1974;
Effective Date: July 29, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and proviue the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port development
and civil aviation. Contracts for supply of much of the equipment under the
credit have been awarded and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Useful discussions have recently been held with Sudan Railways about means to
upgrade the standard of operations, which is an important element of this
project, and a fourth Railway project is under consideration.
Credit No. 476 Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$10.7
Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date: September 6, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farmers,
(ii) expanding extension services (iii) establishing a center for nutrition
research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production through a
program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also aims at
rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establishing the
nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and technical
assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit in the M-linistry of
Agriculture to implement the project, are also included. Some key staff mem-
bers have been appointed and work on recruiting further staff and providing
housing for them is well advanced. Seed trials and seed multiplication are
under way.  Coffee planting is ahead of schedule.   The associated cattle
vaccination campaign, financed largely by Germany, is under way. A slow
start to this project was expected. Good progress has been made in over-
coming the difficulties faced in recruiting and housing staff for the
project, and the project is going ahead much better now. The Government
of Norway has recently taken a participation in this credit amounting to
US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 547 Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of May 1975
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Centre, for curriculum develop-
ment for schooling in the rural context and will support an education sector



ANNEX II
Page 5
survey. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site selection
and the education sector survey has got off to a good start.
Credit No. 546 Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25, 1975
Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project consists of the fourth unit at the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and dis-
tribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and ser-
vices. Implementaiton of the generation and transmission features of the
project is proceeding generally on schedule. Bids have been received for
most of the main components and these indicate that there may be a 25% cost
overrun. PEWC is currently revising cost estimates arid considering alterna-
tives to meet the situation. Management of PEWC is suffering pending reor-
ganization, which has just commenced with Council of Ministers approval of
a new structure in November 1975 and appointment of new department heads.
Given improvement in collection (accounts receivable stood at the equivalent
of 9 months sales in June 1975), the recent increase of 45% in electricity
tariffs and 60% in water tariffs should improve PEWC's financial performance.
Credit No. 589 Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project will continue IDA's support for this development fi-
nance company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized
industries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait
Fund and the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the
foreign exchange needs of the Indu-trial Bank up to mid-1977.
Credit No. 614 Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The credit will finance preparation studies of high priority
projects, to facilitate Sudan's public investment. The credit is not yet
effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN - Domestic Aviation Project
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Democratic Republic of the Sudan.
Beneficiary:        Civil Aviation Department.
Amount:             A loan of US$20.0 million equivalent in various
currencies. A credit of US$9.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              The loan would be for 25 years, with 7 years grace at
4.85 percent interest. The credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
Project
Description:      Construction of two new airports, improvement of two
airports, purchase and installation of communications,
navigational and maintenance equipment, and technical
assistance and training for the Civil Aviation Department.
Cost and
Financing:        The project cost would be $86.2 million, excluding
taxes and duties. The foreign exchange cost would be
$65.0 million, 75 percent of project cost. Contin-
gencies amount to 39 percent of the total cost.
The cost breakdown by airport is as follows:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
Juba                        2.5         8.2      10.7
Wau                         2.8         9.2      12.0
Malakal                     4.5         9.3      13.8
Port Sudan                  2.3        11.4      13.7
12.1        38.1      50.2
Physical Contingencies      1.2         3.8       5.0
Price Contingencies         5.5        17.0      22.5
Risk Contingency            1.5         4.1       5.6
20.3        63.0      83.3
Other items                 0.9         2.0       2.9
TOTAL                21.2         65.0      86.2
The proposed loan and credit would finance most of the foreign exchange
cost of Wau and Malakal airports and the cost of other items (maintenance
equipment and design, supervision and accountancy consultants).



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated
Disbursements:                    (US$ million)
Year ending June 30                Sept. 30
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981      1981
0.7      3.0      12.0     25.5     26.5      29.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        Contracts financed under the loan and credit for
civil works and for provision and installation of
equipment would be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's "Guidelines for Procurement." Interested
contractors would be subject to pre-qualification.
Qualified domestic contractors would receive 7-1/2
percent preference.
Technical
Assistance:          The project would finance technical assistance and
training of CAD staff, especially in construction
and maintenance supervision, in economic and commercial
fields, and in accountancy.
Rate of Return:        Excluding passenger time savings, the estimated economic
return for the total project would be 18%. For the
three southern airports the return would be 15%; for
Port Sudan 22%; for airport lighting and navigational
aids 16%.
Appraisal Report:      Report No.:  1029a-SU, dated June 3, 1976.



