CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 643 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Domestic Aviation Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 7, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1976, between THE DEMOCRATIC REPUB-
LIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
-o this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by the Loan Agreement the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrover upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the term "Loan Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agree. to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing July 15, 1986, and ending January 15, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Jan-
uary 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿0                          -5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Civil Aviation Department with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ the consultants and experts
referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment (including the
terms of reference) of the said consultants and experts shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Civil Aviation Department.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation Department
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Civil Aviation Department and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of con-
sultants whose experience, qualifications and terms and conditions
of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory
to the Association, establish within the Civil Aviation Department


﻿-8-
no later than July 1, 1977, or such later date as the Borrower and
the Association may determine and thereafter maintain a unified
commercial accounting system showing on an accrual basis in sep-
arate accounts the financial operation of headquarters and all air-
ports managed by the Civil Aviation Department and providing for
the acquisition and disposal of capital assets.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, in-
surance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consis-
tent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, before the new airports
of Wau and Port Sudan are brought into operation: (i) improve to
all weather standard the main roads from Wau and Port Sudan leading
to the airport access roads; and (ii) ensure adequate provision of
water supply to Port Sudan for the new airport.
(b) The Borrower shall improve the electricity services pro-
vided for Wau, Port Sudan, Juba and Malakal before each of the
airports included in the Project is commissioned to ensure that
the electrical power demands of the airports can at all times be
adequately met.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation Department to take all
action necessary (including the adjustment of its fees) as shall
produce revenues for the Civil Aviation Department sufficient to


﻿9-
cover by 1983 and thereafter all operating expenses of the Depart-
ment, plus debt service attributed to it or depreciation, which-
ever is greater. For the purposes of this Section the term "oper-
ating expenses" includes direct costs of operation, administration,
overheads, adequate maintenance expenses and taxes, if any.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to plan and manage its operations and affairs, plan
its future expansion and carry on its operations all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolu-
tion of the Civil Aviation Department or for the suspension of
its operations.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:


﻿- 11 -
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrover under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the events specified in Section
5.01 (a) and Section 5.01 (b) (i) (B) of this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date October 5, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.o4 of the General Conditions.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of State for Planning of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Planning and National Economy
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ 0. A. Alsamahouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for Wau        14,400,000         90% of foreign
and Malakal airports                         expenditures
(including earthworks,
pavements, terminal
and other buildings,
runway lighting and
other utilities and
services)
(2) Vehicles and main-            750,000         100% of foreign
tenance equipment                            expenditures for
directly imported
items and 55% for
items imported
and procured
locally
(3) Navigational aids           1,150,000         100% of foreign
and communication                            expenditures
equipment at Wau
and Malakal air-
ports including
installation and
commissioning costs


﻿- 16-
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            %o of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Accounting consul-            150,000         100% of foreign
tancy services and                           expenditures
training for the
Civil Aviation
Department
(5) Technical assistance          800,000         100% of foreign
and training other                           expenditures
than in Category
(4) above
(6) Engineering services        1,350,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                10,400,000
TOTAL      29,000,000


﻿  -17-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Boirower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not ex-
ceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of
Category (6) on account of payments made for such expenditures be-
fore that date but after April 1, 1976; and
(b) expenditures under Category (1), (2) or (3), until the
Borrower has submitted to the Association and the Bank detailed
engineering for Parts A and B of the Project.


﻿- 18                                   0
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the Bank
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the es-
timated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and


﻿-19 -
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as,
in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of t ,e Credit and of
the Loan.


﻿-20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Construction of two new airports, one at Port Sudan and the
other at Wau.
B.   Reconstruction and improvement of Juba and Malakal airports.
C.   Provision of consultancy services for completion of design
and supervision of construction of the Project airports and
consultancy and management services and training as described
in the Annex hereto attached.
The facilities to be included in Parts A and B above are
described in the Airport Feasibility Study dated February 1975
prepared by the Borrover's Consultants, said facilities being sub-
ject to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
*              *              * P
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿-21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Consultancy and Management Services
Civil Aviation Department (CAD)
1.   To strengthen the airport engineering design and construction
unit in the CAD, six experts will be engaged for the follow-
ing positions: (i) supervising airport engineer (chief of
the unit); (ii) civil engineer (chief of the surveying sec-
tion); (iii) airport engineer (chief of the design and con-
struction supervision section); (iv) architect; (v) electrical/
mechanical engineer (chief of the lighting, navigational aid
and standby power section); and (vi) aviation economist (chief
of the economic and statistical section). In addition, 10 man-
years of training outside Sudan would be provided for qualified
staff of CAD.
2.   The accounting consultants will, inter alia, be required to:
(i) ra\riew CAD's existing accounting system; (ii) determine
what legal requirements exist in regard to financial reporting
to the Borrower; (iii) design and implement a financial and
cost accounting system on a commercial basis; (iv) design and
introduce monthly management reports; (v) design and implement
internal audit procedures; (vi) design a system to facilitate
the preparation of annual accounts on an accrual basis; and
(vii) prepare an accounting manual to assist supervisors in
ensuring the accurate recording and presentation of information
and in the training of staff.


﻿- 22-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The goods and works financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in the Project shall be
prequalified.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included in the
Project, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification ap-
plying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the information for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,


﻿-23 -
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association and the Bank, a particular firm 6r
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association and the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association and the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifi-
cations in said procedure as the Association and the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part B above and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification


﻿and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association and the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, dele-
tions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
and the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association and the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's and the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Association and the Bank shall, if it determines that


﻿- 25 -
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Association and the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


