CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1287 T-SU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Domestic Aviation Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 7, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1976, between THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible to
receive the Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term is de-
fined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the
Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
(hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator) subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which the Loan is one;
(D) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by the Development Credit Agreei1..ent, the Association
has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Credit);


﻿-2-
(E) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the exteht practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan pro-
vided for in this Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed. on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Civil Aviation Department" means the Civil Aviation
Department of the Borrower; and
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agree-
ments supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and all
schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and eighty-five hundredths per cent (4.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any
time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be suffi-
cient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest
payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in paragraph
(C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, upon noti-
fication by the Administrator of such determination and the amount of
the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on such principal
amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
the Civil Aviation Department with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate'administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ the consultants and experts
referred to in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including the terms of reference) of the said consultants and
experts shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes re-
lated to the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of t e Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any pub-
lic assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ilso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿9
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any enti-Ly owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Civil Aviation Department.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation Department
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal rear audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the


﻿- 10 -
Civil AviEtion Department and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of
consultants whose experience, qualifications and terms and condi-
tions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, establish within the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment no later than July 1, 1977, or such later date as the Borrower
and the Bank may determine and thereafter maintain a unified com-
mercial accounting system showing on an accrual basis in separate
accounts the financial operation of headquarters and all airports
managed by the Civil Aviation Department and providing for the
acquisition and disposal of capital assets.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to take ou' and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, before the new airports
of Wau and Port Sudan are brought into operation: (i) improve to
all weather standard the main roads from Wau and Port Sudan leading
to the airport access roads; and (ii) ensure adequate provision of
water supply to Port Sudan for the new airport.
(b) The Borrower shall improve the electricity services pro-
vided for Wau, Port Sudan, Juba and Malakal before each of the
airports included in the Project is commissioned to ensure that


﻿- 11. -
the electrical power demands of the airports can at all times be
adequately met.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation Department to take all
action necessary (including the adjustment of its fees) as shall
produce revenues for the Civil Aviation Department sufficient to
cover by 1983 and thereafter all operating expenses of the Depart-
ruent, plus debt service attributed to it or depreciation, whichever
is greater. For the purposes of this Section the term "operating
expenses" includes direct costs of operation, administration, over-
heads, adequate maintenance expenses and taxes, if any.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the Civil Aviation
Department to plan and manage its operations and affairs, plan
its future expansion and carry on its operations all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolu-
tion of the Civil Aviation Department or for the suspension of its
operations.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that:


﻿-13 -
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragrnph (h) thereof, namely, the events specified in Section
5.01(a) and Section 5.01(b)(i)(B) of this Agreement.
01


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, the
conclusion by the Borrower of a loan agreement with the Saudi Fund
for Development in respect of the new airport at Port Sudan included
in Part A of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date October 5, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of State for Planning of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Planning
and National Economy
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
01


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By Is! 0. A. Alsamahouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿.                        -17 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (exrressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                  335,000
July 15, 1983                                     350,000
January 15, 1984                                 355,000
July 15, 1984                                    365,000
January 15, 1985                                  375,000
July 15, 1985                                    385,000
January 15, 1986                                 390,000
July 15, 1986                                    405,000
January 15, 1987                                 410',000
July 15, 1987                                    420,000
January 15, 1988                                 435,000
July 15, 1988                                      o,ooo
January 15, 1989                                 455,000
July 15, 1989                                    465,000
January 15, 1990                                 475,000
July 15, 1990                                     485,000
January 15, 1991                                  500,000
July 15, 1991                                     510,000
January 15, 1992                                  525,000
July 15, 1992                                     535,000
January 15, 1993                                  550,000
July 15, 1993                                     560,000
January 15, 1994                                  575,000
July 15, 1994                                     590,000
January 15, 1995                                 605,000
July 15, 1995                                    620,000
January 15, 1996                                 630,000
July 15, 1996                                    650,000
*    To the extent that any Dortion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar euiva-
lents determined as for nuroses of withdrawal.


﻿-19-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.05%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          3.90%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5.65%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7.45%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                    8.15%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8.85%


