Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-jZ  jL               7s -
Report No. 10320-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PR3MARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 19, 1993
'I  1,         1. 
A; f1 (;R   J?,L . 5'    {(t
,*;.   !-, I         -. I, r,'  ?-L j!ii
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =     Uganda Shilling (Ush)
US$  1.00    =      USh 1165.13 (Dec. 1992)
USh  1.00    =      US$ 0.0012 (Dec. 1992)
SDR  1.00    =      US$ 1.3877
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RrPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRBY EDUCTO U C EM  DEVELINM  1pRO-EC[
AtDB          African Develaomt Bank
CEA           Commis oner for Eduion (Administration)
CEI           Commissonaer for Educadon (Inspectoate)
COMM          Community
DEC           District Educaion Committee
DEO           District Education Officer
DIS           District Inpo or of Schools
EASL          East African School of Libmrianship
EPRC          Educaton Policy Review Counme
ElU           Education Planing Unit
ERP           Economic Recovery Progm
GER           GOrss Enmt  Rao
mx            Institute of Techr Education Kyambogo
LSP           lTr of Sector Policy
MLG           Ministry of Local Govemeats MOES
MOES          Ministry of Education and Sports
NAEP          Nadonal Assesshmt of Educational Pformance
NCDC          Natonal Curriculum Developmnt Center
NTC           Nationl Tachr Training
NRP           Northan  Reconstion Poject
PAPSCA        Program to Alleviate Povert and Social Costs of Adjustment
PER           Publc Expenditure Roview
PlU           Project Implemetion Unit
PLE           Pdrmy Leaving Examinatco
PFF           Project Prepartion Facility
WrA           Psnt-Teacher AssociOatn
TC            PrMay Tahers College
REO           Regiod Education Officer
SAC           Struturl Adjustment Credit
SMC           School Management Committe
SSS           Social Sector Stre
TDNS          Tcher D"opmnt and M gment System
TU            Textbook Unit (MOES)
TSC           Teaching Service Commission
7rC           Primary Teacbers Trai
UACE          Ugad Advanced Certificat of Education
UCE           Ugands Certification of Educat
UNED          Uganda National Examiato  Board
UVE           Univerul Primry Education
USAID         United States Agency for Internaional Development
Thds report is based on the findInp of pre-appraisal and appraisa missions which visited
Uganda in July and November, 1991, rpectively, comprising Nat Colletta (senior educatio.
specialit nd mission leader), Vincent Graney (curriculum-a  nion specialist), Donald
Holsner (seondary educadon specialist), Victor Levine (educational planner-ecoomist,
consultant), David Evans (tacher educadon specialist, consultant), Nigel BiLany (textbook
deveopment specialist, consultant), Pat Walkr (architect), and Martha Ainsworth (buman
resource eoomist). Bruce Jones (senior human resource economist) also contrbuted to the
preprtion of this report. Lydia Tabi provided sretarial assince in te preparation of the
report. Jacob van Lutsenburg Mass is the managing division chief and Francis Colago is the
managing department director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
BASCDATA   ....... ...... .........                                          .... -  i
CREDrr AND PROJECr SUMUfARY...                                                     iiv
I.   £RMODUCrION .............................................  I
A. Econondc. and Denogaphlc Background .. ...... . . . ...                   I
Economic Decline (1971-86)                  .... I
Economic Recovery Since 1987 .. . . . ...     . ...... .....          I
Current Policy Framework and Future Prospects. .            ..        2
PopulationTrends.. .. ... 3
B. Ite Bank's Country Asistance l'oga   . ... . . ..                        4
nI. THE EDUCATION SECTOR                               . . . 5
A. Overview of the EductionSytem .        . ............................ ,
PrimtaryEducation                       ...5
Secondary Education                       . . . 8
HigherEducation. . .                                                  8
Central GovenmentExpenditureon theEducationSystem.. . .               9
Manaement of the Educaton Secor.                   .       .          9
3 Government SectoralPolidesand Objeeves                 . . . 10
C. Aclvitles of Other Major Donors           . . .                          I
D. IDA Activltles in the Educatlon Sector ...                 ..... 12
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement      . . .12
Rationale fbr Further IDA Assistance            .      .      .      14
m. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .            .     ....................... .1... I5
A. Project Concept and Objeives ....................            ....... . 15
B. Monitoring of Policy Acdons IS......15
C. ProJed Iuvestuent Expenditure.... .IS.                    .15
Component 1. Improving Prlmary School Teaching and Management.1S
a. ERvtablishing the Teacher Development and
ManagementSystem (TDMS)    ...17
b. Rehabilitating and Constructing Facilities  . .    .17
c. Providing Learning Resources       .      . .18
d. Revitalizing Private Sector Publishing and Printing   ...    18
Component 2. Enhancing Strategic MOES Functions  .    .19
a. Strengthening Planning and Policy Andysis ................ 19
b. Upgrading Moagement and Information Systems .20
c. Refbrming Curriculum and Examination.                        20
d. BuHlding ProJ<t Imp   1Ia0  - cplte_on ..........  21



Mr.  PROJECT cofss AND EiNANCING  .................................. 22
A. Cost  ................................................ 22
B. FJnadngPlan ..........................................  23
C. Disburseument.         .......................................... 25
D. Procureneut ...........................................  25
E. Acounts andAudits .........................................  31
F. Projet Inptneentadon            ....................................  32
V.  BENEFi AND RISKS  .               ...................................... 36
A. Benefits  ...........................................   36
B. ss ...... 36
VI. ACREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM"OEDATION .................                                 38
A.  AGRBEMENT REACHED DIIUNG NEGOTIATIONS  ....                          .......... 38
B.  ASSURANCES ......................................... 38
C.  CONDMON OF CREDrrEFEC VEESS  .................... 39
TEXT TABLES
2.1    Central Government Recurrent Expenditure ....................... 9
4.1    Project Cost Summary ..........            .........................  22
4.2    Projec Ftinning Plan ..........            .........................  24
4.3    Disbursement Categories and Percentages ....................... 26
4.4  Procurement .......................................... 27
ANNEXES
1. List of Documents in Project File
2. Basic Education Data
Table 1 - Primary School Enrollment, 1990
Table 2 - Primary Student to Teacher Ratio - Trained and Unurained, 1990
Table 3 - Conditions of Aided Primary School Buildings, 1990
Table 4 - Primary School Curriculum, 1991
Table 5 - Primary School Textbook Requirements
3.  MOES OrgaizationalCharts
Chart 1 - MOES
Chart 2 - TDMS Network
Chart 3 - National Level TDMS Structre
Chart 4 - District Level TDMS Structure
Chart 5 - EPU
Chart 6 - PIU



4. Education Sector Expenditure
5. Central Government Expenditure by Sector
6. The Government White Paper on the EPRC Report
7. Summary of Draft Five Year Investment Program, (1993-98)
8. Draft Letter of Education Sector Policy and Action Plan
9. USAU Assistance Program: Support to Ugandan Primary Education Reform
10. TDMS Organization, Staff and Functions
11. EPU Organization, Staff and Functions
12. Secondary Education Pre-investment Study
13. Project Costs Estimates
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15. Schedule of Accommodation for: (a) PTC and (b) lNEB
16. Technical Assistance
17. Implementation Schedule
18. Key Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
19. Supervision Plan
MAP IBRD No. 23572R-UG



iii   I          I             1h4 ti        -  - % $-
FHill: 
iF8                               q4                   
-     .3                                               .  .Q
I
L's'
liii I iE[miu
I ! .     I                *.)....*.*.*.*.*..*.*.*.....*.**.*.I
0
[I       'I                         ..,.
''II
ii
I.                                  .... ..........
I                                                          §§
:..                   88



ii
REPUBUC OF UGANDA
C          AWND PROJECT SIIMMARY
Republic of Uganda
Bdard=:              Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES)
sntI:               SDR 38 millon (US$52.6 million)
m:                   Standard, with 40 years maturity
On hend Sng -Tmm:    Not Applicable
Proleet Oblves:    As summarized in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy, the
Government Intends to pursue its long-tem objectives (access, quality,
and relevance) i the education sector by reforming the patten of
resource mobilization and allocation in the education sector, and through
appropriate iostitutional reform and strengthening. Within this
framework, the proposed project seeks to assist the Government by
reforming the patter of resource mobilization and resource allocation in
the sector, and by financing specific investmem expenditures.
Proeet De°  idon   EPrimay school teaching and managemt(US$38.2 million) would be
improved through the development of an integrated support system
linking primary teacher colleges to a surrounding network of primary
schools to provide field-based upgrading and continuous in-sevice
training for school managers and instructional staff eadteachers, district
education officers and inspectorate staff, and teachers) and the
rehabilitation and construction of primary school and related teacher
training facilities; the provision of learning resources, particularly
textbooks and supplementary reading materials; and the revitalization of
the private sector capacity to produce such learning resources.
Sgotraic olannin. Rolicy ganalvis. _and implmentatig
fuintions (US$14.4) would be enhanced by strengthening the MOES
planning unit and conducdng special policy studies in the areas of
secondary education, book policy development and the national
assessment of educational performance; upgrading management and
information systms, particulady in the areas of personnel, accountng
and auditing; reforming the curriculum and examinations; and expanding
and decentizing implementation capacity.



Tlhe project would assist the Government to nitiate a process of rfom,
reconstruction and development of the education sector with improved
capacity to plan, manage and finance the delivery of primary education
services. Access to learning opporftites would be Increased by the
provision of additional primary school and related teacher training
facUities and learning resources. Equity would be improved through
targeting of resou'ces to disadvantaged groups, especially women.
Improvements In internal efficiency would reduce repetition and drop
out. Reformed curriculum and examination systems and improved
school management and instructional leadenhip through the
implementation of a primary school Teacher Development and
Management System ([DMS) would substantially boost school quality.
The Ministry's capacity to plan and monitor system performance would
be enhanced.
Rishs:               Tbere are four main risks. The first risk is financial and parallels that
for the Government's development eftbrt as a whole. The financial
provisions for both capital and recurrant expenditures need to be put on
a firm footing by the strengthening of tax adminstration through the
semi-autonomous Uganda Revenue Authority. Second, limitations on
MOBS capacity could hamper project implementation. This risk is being
addressed by establishing in advance of project effectiveness a PPF
which focuses on upgrading middle and senior management,
strengthening information and planning fimctions, and expanding the
implementation capacity of the PIU, particularly the construction
department. Tbirdly, the project involves a major reform of teacher
training institutions from an exclusively campus based pro-service
training approach to a complementary outreach In-service prognrm to
improve the training and quality of school management and instuction.
Lack of shared understanding at the District level of this new approach
could hamper project implementation. To mitigate against this risk,
substantial consultation has been conducted with District and school levd
management and teacher educators to build a broad consensus among
those involved in the project. This broad participatory process will
continue as part of a decentralized (District-based) orgaizational and
staff development program during the PPF period and beyond.
Fourthly, the government draft education policy White Paper, which is
now undergoing public debate could have deleterious effects on learning
outcomes, (eg., if excessive vocationalization, Kiswahili, and
community service were to prevail at the expense of instruction in the
basic subject areas). To address this possibility, the LUP and action plan
specifically protects instuctional time on the core curriculum and
ensures that these subjects are the core examinable subjects on the
primary school leaving exam.



I
4 H                          I
I 1J' *jii' I
1         tffjI iritirt
Fiji!'
.... IIU' 'till
C
..,.......M  0              I
t flbI*--
C         9"cc - Li
a                    I
N IAO*CtAm.  tO0*.C 4



V
8O                           20     4*
0      IS      0      28.9   S04
0      0              2#8
b$taMIu*?,iv.                0      0              01      07
$PDacteR    -        4              AM    JSA
w
LAUJ
. ....-.. - -.
*  Naw,ib.sI tunde4.
:Ia $A bw#J1.t andug
$ mflIa.) 1bVdW.*OpIn8 ad    TDMS    thwIbsp* uumiI
*t *OSA0 £  7gandaa ?xty fi4itca*ou boi?roa 
W$2 ntatt a.pa*s. obaos aid Iaaiiu imowwu.
..,,.....-...'....
 zwi
-
AnmI                               61    9.4             W.*I             4,6
A.....                     ...-.................
.".x.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Economic and Demographil Bflgdond
1eonomic Decline. 197146
1.1   In the 1960s, Uganda had one of the strongest economies in Africa. Favored with a
good climate and fertie soi, the Uacultur scor was able to generato considerble expors
of coffee, cotton, and tea, as well as feeding the popuation. The industrial sector, although
small, provided basic inputs and consumer goods, and exports of textles and copper. Uganda
had access to an effective network of railway, port, and airine facilities, and the itnal
highway network was In good condition. Tbe substantial potential for hydroelectric energy
was being partially exploited. The health service was one of Africa's best, and although
school enrollment was low, the education system had acquired a reputation for good quality.
Real GDP grew by almost six pe^ent annually during the 1960s. Ibflation was low, and In
most years there was a current account surplus In the balance of paymen.
1.2    During the mismanagement and strife of the Idi Amin and 'Obote 11 peiods
(1971-35), the economy deteriorated substantially. Tbe ethnic Asian communiy    expelled
in the early 1970s, and many other Ugandans fled the country or lost their lives. Ihe public
sector became overextended through the confiscation of Industies, and professional standards
in the civil service eroded substantially. Fiscal and monetary m aemt fuled
inflation. Price controls and an overvalued exchange rate encouraged economic activity to
move to subsistence activities or parallel markets. The physical iucture deteriorated
due to lack of maintenance. Government spending on social seicas fell to very low levels,
with the burden of ficancing social services shifting largely to pareats/beneficiaries. By 1986,
key economic indicawrs had fallen to the following approxime percentages of their 1970
values: exports, 40%; imports, 50%; real GDP, 75%; real GDP per capita, 50%. The
decline was particularly pronounced In the market economy, as an increasing she  of
economic activity took place in the subsistence sector.
Eoonomic Rfa         Since 1987
1.3   The National Resistance Movement (NRM) assumed conrl of the Government in
1986. In 1987, the NRM Government launched a program of stabilization, economic
recovery, and strctural adjustment. The Government's program has been supportd by a
series of annual arrangements under the IM's Strucur Adjustment Facility and Expanded
Strtu  Adjustment Facility; by two Economic Recovery Credits and a first Structul
Adjustment Credit (SAC) from IDA; and other multilatera and bilatl financing.
1.4   The iflux of external aid has faciitated increaed Govenment expSedIre. There
has been substntdal progress in reducing bak financing of the Goverment budget deficit
The exchange rate is now market-determined, and most of the admintive burdles facing
importers and exporters have been eliminated. Price controlsh ave been abolished. Pfsitive
real interest rates have been established. Tle marketig of agricultur producb ha been
largely deregulated. The Industrial Licensing Act has been repealed, and a new Investment
Code enacted. Large numbers of expropriated properties have been returned to former



2
owners. There has been good progress in restoring physical infastructure such as roads and
electric power. A start has been made on Civil Service Reform, with the number of
ministries reduced from 28 to 18, and a substantial numbers of ghost workers and
nonestablished employees removed from the payroll. lbe Paris Club bilateral creditors have
rescheduled the debt owed to them on concessional terms, enabling Uganda to sustain debt
service to key nonreschedulable creditors such as the IW and IDA.
1.5 In response to the recovery program, the economy has performed well. Inflation was
reduced from 200% in 1986 to 30% In 1991, before spildng back up to 60% in early 1992
because slippages in the implementation of fiscal and monetary policy in the first half of the
1991/92 fiscal year. On a rolling three-month basis, inflatiou has recently decelerated to
20%. Real GDP has been growing by five percent annually.
1.6    Despite the accomplishments to date, a substantial zecovery and reform agenda still
remains. While declining, inflation has yet to be brought firmly under control. Reflecting
the collapse in the world price of coffee, export receipts are equivalent to only one third of
import payments, so that Uganda remains heavily dependent on external aid and debt relief.
Government revenue remains extremely low at only about seven percent of GDP, reflecting
weak tax administration and the loss of coffee-based revenues. Prioritization of Government
expenditure, and divestiure of many publie enterprise to the private sector, are critically
important processes on which implementation has just begun. Financial institutions are
undercapitalized, and there is relatively little financial intermediation in the economy. The
availability, quality and use of some social services remains deplorably low.
Curet  1H  Fraewr and Future ProsgecW
1.7    The most recent Government policy statements are the Way Forward I and Way
Forward II (1992), dealing with macroeconomic and sectoral strategies respectively; and the
Policy Framework Paper for 1992/93-1994/95 (November 1992). As indicated in these
statements, the role of public institutions will be to establish the infrastructure and policy
environment conducive to private sector development. The ongoing process of liberalization,
defined as 'moving toward policies which work through markets", will be continued. The
public expenditure strategy includes Oconcentrating investment resources on those
activities/sectors in which Government mus play a leading role ... (and) ensuring that
expenditures witnin priority sectors are cost-effective."
1.8 Additionally, in October 1992 the President of Uganda launched the Decentralization
program. Under this program, control over field personnel will be shifted from Central
Government ministries to the District Executive Secrety (DES). Beginning with the
1993/94 financial year, district votes will be created in the national budget, so that recurrent
expenditure for field-based services will be sent to the Distict direcdy, with the DES
becoming the District accounting officer. Ministry heaquarters will be streamlined to a core
of policy makers, planners, and inspectors.



3
1.9    Within this framework, the Goverment's efforts in the next few years wIll be
focussed on the remaining recovery and reform agenda, nmely: further lowering of inflation;
improvement of tax administration with a view to increasing tax revenue; increasing the
effectiveness of Government services through expenditure prioritization, civil service reform,
and decentralization; divestiture of a signiflcant number of public enterprises to the private
sector; recapitalization and deepening in the financial sector; and social sector development.
1.10  'Me Government's program is aimed at sustaining a real GDP growth rate of 5%
annually, and reducing inflation to 15% by June 1993, and to 6% by June 1995. Assuming
continued implementation of appropriate financial and structural policies, success in export
diversification, and continued donor support, Uganda could achieve external viability (in the
sense of clearing all arrears, and no longer requiring rescheduling) by 1995/96.
polrmation Teds
1.11    On the basis of the Demographic and Health Survey 1988/89, the World Bank staff
bave estimated that the rate of natural increase in Uganda would have been about 3.2% in the
1980s (birth rate, 50 per 1000; death rate from normal causes, 18 per 1000). However, on
the basis of the results of the January 1991 population census, the population growth rate
during the intercensal period 1980-1991 was actually only 2.5% annually. The Government
has provisionally attributed this finding to "the socio-economic decline and the inerna
conflicts between 1980 and 1985." This is consistent with the Bak staff assessment that the
depression of the population growth rate, below the rate of natural increase, reflected war-
related excess mortalty in the first half of the 1980s.
1.12    The dependency ratio (the ratio of children and retirement-age adults, to the number
of working-age adults, 15-64) is estimated to have been 107% in 1990, one of the highest
dependency ratios in the world.
1.13 The Bank staff estimate that Uganda's poputation growth rate is currentiy (1990-95)
3.1%. AIDS is projected to overtake malaria as the leading source of morality. Depending
on progress in family planning and AIDS control, by 2000-2005 the population growth rate
could be as low as 2.5% or as high as 3.3%.
1.14 There are important linkages from population to education. Reflecting Uganda's
extraordinarily high Total Fertility Rate of 7.3, girls are often encouraged to drop out of
school in order to care for younger siblings, and/or contribute labor to farm household
production. The school-age population Is projected to increase by 39% between 1990 and
2000, magnIfying the challenge of achieving universal prumary enrollment. Education also
has important effects on population; the Demographic and Health Survey found female
education to be negatively correlated with both fertility, and infant morality. Family
planning and expansion of access to primary education, particularly for girls, are therefore
complementary, reinforcing policies.



4
B. The Bank's Countrv Assistance Progm
1.15 As indicated in the most tecent Country Brief (December 1992), the Bank's program
in Uganda is aimed at assisting the Government to: (a) strengthen macroeconomic stability
through an improved revenue effort, better public expenditure manaement, monetary
restraint, and a fully liberalized exchange and trade system; (b) improve the climate for
private sector development through deregulation, privatization of public enterprises,
rehabilitation of infrastructure, and strengthening the role of financial intermediaries; (c)
strengthen the human resource base by expanding access to, and improving the quality of,
education and health care; (d) stem the degradation of the environment; (e) improve the
management of external aid.
1.16   The Bank has been carrying out a substandal program of economic and sector work in
Uganda. Recently completed or ongoing reports include a Public Expenditure Review; an
Agricultural Sector Report; a District Management Study; and a Social Sector Strategy report
covering education, health, and family planning. The findings of these tasks have been
reflected in a draft economic report 'Growing Out of Poverty', planned for completion in the
first half of 1993.
1.17 In addition to investment lending, the Bank has been supporting economic reforms In
Uganda through adjustment lending. The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I),
approved in December 1991, includes six components, grouped into the two themes of private
sector development and public sector effectiveness. Private sector development is being
supported through further liberalization of the exchange and trade sysem; repeal of the
Industrial Licensing Act and establishment of a promotion-oriented Investment Authority; and
return to owners of properties being managed by the Departed Asians' Property Custodian
Board (DAPCB). Public sector effectiveness is being supported through strengthening of tax
administrion, including establishment of the Uganda Revenue Authority as an autonomous
organization responsible for its own internal management and performance; adherence to
agreed levels of funding (higher than for 1990/91, and consistent with declining defense
expenditure) in the 1991/92 budget for high-priority programs in education, health, water
supply, roads, and agriculture; and agreed steps in Civil Service Reform. The second tranche
was released in March 1993. A proposed SAC E would msist the Government to deepen
reforms in the general areas of prvate sector development and public sector effectiveness.
Related adjustment credits include the ongoing Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, and the
planned Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
1.18   A Country Implemeotation Review (CIR) was held in May 1992. The Joint CIR
discussed issues and recommended corrective actions in a number of generic areas affecting
project implementation, including counterpart funding, procurement, and accounting and
auditing. The Govermuent's reaction during the second half of 1991/92 to the fisc and
monetary slippage in the first half of 1991/92 (para. 1.5 above) intensified the counterpart
funding problems being experienced by projects. In the firt quarter of 1992/93, Government
revenue coliections were 90% greater than in the first quarter of 1991/92, (50% greater in
real terms), offering some basis for hoping that the counterpart funding problem will be
alleviated in 1992/93. The Bank is presently carrying out a Public Investment Review in
Uganda with a view toward helping the Government to rationalize its project portfolio, taing
into account the likely availability of counterpart fending as well as other factors.



.~~~~
HI. =l EDU.CATIONIKcD
A. QOvezem.ofthedumglgm
2.1   In the 1960s, Uganda had a small but one of the best education systems in sub-
Saharan Africa. Like all other aspects of the Ugandan economy and society, the education
system suffered under the mismanagement and strife of the Idi Amin and 'Obote If" periods
(1971-85). However, a recovery process is now underway.
2.2    ExpansIon of Primary Education. Between 1980 and 1990, the number of students
increased by 85%, the number of pdmary schools increased by 89%, and the number of
teachers more than doubled. Tbis expansion reflected parental and community initiative, since
Government financing for primary education fell to low levels by the late 1980s. Quanttative
expansion was not matched by adequate ircreases in essential inputs, such as instructional
materials and trained teachers, leading to generally poor quality of education.
2.3    Enrollment. Despite the rapid growth in enrollment, the Gross Enrollment Ratio in
1990 for children 6-12 years old is estimated to have been only 72% (boys, 81%; grs,
63%), reflecting the low initial conditions, and the growth of the school-ge population.
Although most Ugandan children enter primary school, enrollment drops off singly from
P1 to P7, and by P7 the gross enrollment ratio is only 48% for boys, and 29% for girls.
2.4    There is litde empirical information as to why chidrean are not in school. The
explanation most commonly put forward is fees. For example, the Ministry of Education has
stated that, due to the decline in the real value of Government financing during the long years
of economic deterioration, the burden of financing primary schooling had shifted heavily to
parents, with the result of *the lower income group either not enrolling, or withdrawing
children from school when the financial burden becomes too great." 5/ Girls' enroiment
may be lower, because, from the parents' perspective, the perceived economic ret  to grls'
schooling may be lower, and the opportunity costs higher, than for boys. Among a sample of
Ugandan women surveyed in 1988, 64% reported that they did not finish or go beyond
primay level due to lack of school fees, while 8% discontinued their schooling due to
pregnancy. Rural women reported working days varying between 12 and 18 hours, with a
mean of 15 hours. ,I Under these circumstces, it is reasonable to believe that par
value the time that daughters can devote to out-of-school tsks such as collecting fiwood,
fetching water, agricultural activities, and child care. With the NIV prevadence rat among
adults estimated to be in the range of 10-12%, many Ugandan households are impacted by
AIDS illness and mortality. Tbe poor learning conditions in the schools are undoubtedly
another factor discouraging school attendance. In the Integrated Survey carried out in 1992
by the Department of Statistics, parents are asked why out-of-school children are not in
school; this informadon is expected to become available in early 1993.
3f Md*y of E&wakw, Fin Yar kwaunat btmnm (1uA, 1"1), p. 12.
if Abby S. Neww4p%bina and Edi R. Nu _oda, lImed Wmm'. Need Anmu     Sawe lN' p. 16.



6
2.5    Variations in enrollment ratios among Uganda's districts and regions, on the basis of
the 1990 school census conducted by the Ministry of Education, are illustrated in Annex 2,
Table 1. The data indicate that the relatively poorer Northemn and Eastern regions have
higher enrollment ratios, which seems Improbable. Instead, the data may refiect variations In
misreporting (capitation grants provide an incentive for reporting larger enrollments). The
household-based enrollment estimates to be generated from the Integrated Survey will provide
a cross-check on the MOES data.
2.6    Primary Teachers. According to the MOES census of schools, in 1990 there were
about 84,000 primary teachers In Uganda; however, a count In 1992 by the Establishment and
Staffing Control Systems Project enumerated about 79,000 primary teachers. With primary
enrollment about 2.4 million, the primary student/teacher ratio is about 30:1, on average.
Variations among districts in the student/teacher ratio are not very striking.
2.7    Only 61% of primary teachers are recognized as trained. Trained teachers are
unevenly distributed; in Kampala, there are few untrained teachers, whereas in some districts
a majority of the teachers are untrained. Even those teachers recognized as trained are not
well trained. Pre-service trainees enter Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTCs) after
completing four years of secondary education ("O level"), and often have a weak general
education preparation. The number of PTCs, most of them founded by religious institutions,
increased from 31 in 1980 to 94 in 1988, without any planning or adequate provision. Many
of the new PTCs were established in facilities built for primary or secondary schools. Tutors
in PTCs are all 'defacto' part-time, with most carrying out other income-generating activities.
Unlike in primary and secondary schools, at PTCs there is little community support to
supplement the inadequate Government budgetary funding. There is no recognized
curriculum for the PTC program, and few textbooks and training materials. The content of
teacher training is overly academic, while practice teaching is brief and poorly supervised. In
1989 the Government reduced the PTC population from 94 to 69, as most of them were
operating at well below capacity and were uneconomic. In addition to the weaknesses of pre
service training, there is almost no in-service training.
2.8    Teacher's salaries paid by the Government are well below livelihoods elsewhere In the
Ugandan economy, and are below a minimum living wage. It is therefore necessary for
headmasters to supplement teachers' official salaries with PTA funds, for which communities
and households have varying capacities. The Report of the Public Service Review and
Reorganization Commission (1990) found that the deplorably low teachers' salaries led to
abuses, such as teachers teaching at more than one school, leaving pupils to work on their
own, and watering down regular classroom teaching in order to encourage attendance at
private tutoring sessions. It found that 'Ultimately, national development will be the main
casualty of the present failure to find an adequate and timely solution for the ptoUblems now
besetting the Teaching Service."
2.9   Instructional Materials. There is an acute shortage of textbooks although books
were distributed through the 3rd and 4th IDA (1 set of books to six pupils). Teacher guides
are in short supply. About 15% of primary schools reported having a library in the 1989
census, but most of these schools do not have any books in the library. Teaching equipment
and materials, partickiarly in the sciences is non-existent. In most primary schools, the
learning process is therefore reduced to the accumulation of factual knowledge through rote
memorization or copying facts from the blackboard.



7
2.10   School Bulldings and FadUtles. The 1989 school census found that, nationwide,
only 42% of clasooms were in permanent structures. This percentage was 95% in
Kampala, and In the ange 15-70% in districts outside Kampala. A survey in Northern
Uganda in 1991 found that 43% of classes were held in the open, and that, among the
structures, 4% were In good condition, 23% needed minor repair, and 73% were badly
damaged. During the 1980s, good established primary schools were upgraded into TFCs and
other institutions, forcing these primary schools into temporary structures. The quality of
structures, and the availability of desks and chairs, varies according to the resources of the
communities.
2.11   Finandng of Prmary Education. Unlike in most countries, in Uganda the burden
of financing primary education falls more on parents than on the Central Government budget.
(Local authority financing of education is nonexistent in most localities.) On the basis of the
1989190 Household Budget Survey, in 1989/90 parental financing of primary education was
about 1.9% of GDP, vhereas Central Government expenditure on education was only 0.6%
of GDP. The ratio of private to total expenditure in the financing of education was therefore
75% - unusually high. However, it should be recognized that the ratio of government
revenue to GDP is exceptionally low (see para. 1.6).
2.12 Reflecting a legacy of the colonial and early independence period, when the current
ministries of Education, Health, and Local Government were all parts of a single ministry,
there are two ministries througb which Cntc aovenment finacing Is channelled to the
District Education Officer (DEO), and thence to primary school headmasters: the Ministry of
Education, which pays the teachers; and the Ministry of Local Government, through which a
*capitation grant* is provided to the schools. In principle, the capitation grant is intended for
purchase of school supplies, but there is no accounting as to how this money is actually spent.
Accounting for the teachers' payroll has also been weak. The distribution of Central
Government expenditure among districts, per student, is quite level. Over the past three
years, Central Government expenditure on primary education has been on an increasing trend,
reaching 1.5% of GDP in the 1991/92 budget. However, this is still inadequate, and far
below the level of most other African countries.
2.13   Primary education would collapse if it were not for the conrbution gf Barents, which
amount tc 65-90% of the total funding required by the school. These contributions are of two
types: 'tuition' which is set by the Government, and is equivalent in magnitude to the
capitation grant0 provided through MOLG; and Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) fees set
by the headmaster and the School Management Committee. These fnds vary depending on
whether the school is located in an urban or rural area, and on the socio-economic
background of the parents. PTA fees range from USh 5000 to UShs 50,000 a term, and are
used for various purposes such as staff compensation, school construction, books, stationery,
and meals in boarding schools. In principle, PTA audit reports should be sent to the DEO
and MOES headquarters, but this requirement is not well enforced. Teachers' supplements
depend upon the amount of money the PTA collects. Teachers can receive additional
payments from USh 3,500 to USh 30,000 a month (as compared with Government compen-
sation of USh 13,500 per month); housing can vary in quality from a dormitory to a cottage,
and benefits can include land for cultivation.



8
2.14   Different communities, and different households within communities, have different
capacities to afford PTA fees. The low level of Government financing for primary education
therefore leads to inequity in access to primary education, and wide variadons in the quality
of educaton.
Second=r Edueatlon
2.15   Secondary education consists of six years. After the first four years, students sit for
the Uganda Certificate of Education or 'O level examination. Those who pass this selective
examination are admitted to the last two years. At the end of S6, students sit for the Uganda
Advanced Certificate of Education (UACE), upon which a good mark is necessary for
university entrance. Of the students who enter secondary level, only about one-fourth pass 0-
levels, and only about one-fifth of these (about one percent of the relevant age group) pass A-
levels.
2.16   Secondary education has expanded even more rapidly than primary. Eighty percent
of Government-aided secondary schools were founded during the 1980s, many located in
primary school structures. The Gross Enrollment Ratio for the relevant age group is about
16% for Sl-S4, and only 3.3% for S5 and S6. The percentage of girls' to total enrollment
decreases from 40% in SI to 26% in S6.
2.17   Secondary teachers are trained at ten National Teachers Colleges, which train UACE
graduates intending to teach SI and S2 in a two-year course; and the School of Education at
Makerere University and the Institute of Teacher Education, Kyambogo, which offer
Bachelor's degree programs for prospective S3-S6 teachers. Secondary teacher training
institutions suffer from poor physical facilities, tutor absenteeism, and a lack of learning
materials. About 35% of secondary teachers are untrained. Secondary teachers, like their
primary counterparts, are dependent on PTA levies, private tutoring, or non-eaching income.
2.18 Reported estimates of the share of total secondary school financing coming from
parents range from 25% at the low end, to 70% for elite day schools, and 90% for elite
boarding schools. The average is probably about 50% - lower than for primary. The
variations in PTA contributions have serious consequences for equity and quality.
Egbhe Education
2.19 Makerere University is Uganda's best known institution of higher education.
Although recenty one additional pubUc university and two private universities have been
organized, they are still small, and in 1991 Makerere accoutd for 95% of total university
enrollment. At the present time, Makerere students are charged neither for tuition, nor for
accommodation and boarding costs, which are carried on the University's budgeL Ihus, the
University is completely dependent on Government budgetary funding, which is inadequate.
Following the restoration of peace in the country in 1986, a number of donors have inidated
assistance to particular facilities at Makerere. These targeted investments have produced
uneven development of the University's infrastuctre in the absence of any long-erm
academic, physical, or financial planning for the University as a whole. In addition to
Makerere, there are a number of other post-secondary instittions, including the new Mbarara
University in western Uganda, the National Teachers Colleges mentioned above, and post-
secondary technical schools and colleges of commerce.



9
Central QGvement E>qindlhe o the Eduatign jste
2.20   Data on Central Government Recurrent expenditure per student (Fable 2.1) show that
the distribution of subsidies is skewed toward beneficiaries at the higher levels of the system.
This pattern is undesirable, In view of the economic and social benefits of primary education,
and the fact that beneficiaries at the higher levels of the system, particularly tie university,
tend to come from better-off households. Reflecting the increased expenditure on primary
education In the 1991/92 budget, the ratio of Government spending per student among
university, secondary, and primary students moved from 225:6:1 in 1990/91, to 157:3:1 in
1991/92.
Table 2.1: Central Government Recurrent Expenditure Per Student, By Level
-                           ;I
Source: Dank gaf oaloulaUu baed daaor b  lIrofFnmndi Musqf3uct.
Management of the Education Sector
2.21 Because of decline in the real value of Central Government financing over the past
two decades and the deterioration of the ceal adminIstation, control of individual schools
has been effectively relinquished to the beadteachers, School Management Committe at
primary schools and Boards of Governors at secondary schools, and PTAs. However,
headteachers and college principals are generally lacking in administrative or management
skills.
2.22   Above the school level, the Ministry of Education includes both a 'line'
administrative structure, and specialized functions, such as policy analysis, inspection,
curriculum, and examinations. Reflecting such factors as the deterioration in recordkeeping,
and lack of funds for transportation, both line and staff functions have been performed poorly
in recent years.



10
2.23 At the district level, the District Education Officer (DEO) is the key official. Every
month the DEOQrecelves a check from MOES, which he cashes In order to meet the payroll In
his district. At the begIning of each term he also recives a check from MOLG for school
supplies. Every month the headteachers go the DEO's office to collect cash for salaries, and
school suprlies, hand in any reports, and receive communications from beadquarters.
2.24   Under the Decentralization program, all ministries with field staff, such as Education
will be required to second their staff to the District Resistance Council (district government);
these staff will operate under the control and supervision of the District Executive Secretary
(DES). Starting with the 1993/94 financial year, district votes will be created in the national
budget so that all recurrent expenditure for all field-based minses will be sent to the district
directly. The DES will become the District accounting officer while the DRC will become
the main budgetary unit in the district. The Implication of these decisions Is Ctat, In the
future, the DEO will report primariy to the district goverament, and only secondarily to the
Ministry of Education.
2.25   The decentralization of 'line' functions should enable the Ministry of Education
headquarters to concentrate more effectively on key strategic functions such as planning and
policy analysis, curriculum and examination reform, national assessment, and inspection.
B. GovernmenltoraLI PoIdnes and Qblectves
2.26   Following the restoration of peace in 1986, the National Resisuce Movement
Governnent initiated the process of reforming and reconstructing the education system by
establishing an Education Policy Review Commission in 1987. The Commission submitted its
RM    in 1989. A short statement on education policy has been included in 3Th Way
Forward : Sectoral Strategy (1992). In addition, a detailed Govement White Paper gn
Implementation of the Recommendations of the Renrt of the Education Policy Review
Commission has been drafted, and presently is under discussion within the country, before
eventual adoption. The public discussion of the White Paper Is expected to be completed by
April 1993, with parliamentary debate and approval by June 1993. The success of the
proposed investments would not be effected by the timing of the approval of the White Paper.
(Annex 7 provides some description and Bank staff assessment of the White Paper.) In order
to get the reconstruction of the education system started while the Whito Paper was being
drafted and discussed, the Ministry of Education and Sports also prepared a Fivoear
Investment Prorm 1992/93 - 1996/97 (see Annex 7 for a brief summary and list of
proposed investments). Drawing upon these documents, the education sector objectives and
policies which the Government intends to pursue during the Implemenation of the Primary
Education and Teacher Development Project (IDA V) are described in the Lettwer of Sector
Policy and Action Plan (Annex 8), the main points of which are summarized below.
2.27 The Government wishes to increase access to education. In particular, at the primary
level, the objective is to achieve Universal Primary Education no later than 2001/02. Local
authorities will continue to be responsible for the provision of physical facilities, but the
Central Government is aiding them by providing key strutural elements on a grant basis.
The Government places very high priority on improving the wall of insuction, by
strengthening teacher training, increasing teachers' salaries so that teachers can devote full
time to the job, and expanding the supply of textbooks and other Inuctional materials.
Finally, the Government wishes to strengthen the relationship between education and the job
environment through vocational programs.



11
2.28  Itb  Government intnds to pursue these objectives by reforming the patteen of
resource mobiliwaton and allocation in the education sector, and through appropriate
Instiional reform and strengthening. At the post-primary levds, the fees charged for
education services wltl be brought substantially closer to the costs of producing them, and
boarding subsidies will be phased out. Financial assistance will be provided to poor but
meritorious students to enable them to enroll at these levels of the system. The increased
mobilization of resources from students and their parents at post-primary levels will allow a
greater share of Central Government expenditure to be devoted to primary education,
facilitating progress toward universal enrollment at that level.
2.29   On the basis of the census of the Teaching Service, the Teaching Service payroll has
been reduced from more than 120,000, to approximately 94,000, reflecting the elimination of
*ghosts". In order to prevent recurrence of "ghosts", district establishment registers and a
Teaching Service staff register are being developed. Responsibility for hiring, promotion, and
dismissal of primary school teachers wil rest with the district authorities, acting on the advice
of the school management committee.
2.30   Teacher training will be reoriented from the current emphasis largely on pre-service
training, to a more balanced three-pronged program of pre-service training, upgrading of
unqualified teachers, and in-service training. The Primary Teacher Colleges to benefit under
the proposed project will operate within a policy framework which provides appropriate
institutional autonomy and accountability.
2.31   Consistent with the decisions which have been taken on Decentralization, the role of
the Ministry of Education and Sports will be to perform or sponsor strategic functions, such
as research, policy analysis and formulation; curriculum; examinations; and surveillance of
trends on inputs, outcomes, and efficiency. Budgeting and accounting in the education sector
will also be strengthened.
2.32   Under the project, private sector development in the production and distribution of
extbooks and other instructional materials will be encouraged, while the role of the public
sector will be developmental in nature, as well as setting policies, formulating guidelines, and
monitoring.
C. Activides of Other Maior Donors
2.33   A number of donor agencies are currendy active in supporing projects in the
education sector. UNDP is supporting Basic Education for National Development (BEND),
service infrastructure development, and curriculum development. UNICEF (in collaboration
with WHO and AMREF) has developed a School Health Education Curriculum. They are
currenty exploring further investments in the areas of early childhood development and
community-school relations. DANIDA is providing assistance to special education.
2.34 USAID has been assisting the agricultural faculty at Makerere University. They have
recently concluded an aid agreement with the government to finance a complementay
program of assistance to the Bank effort in primary education and teacher training.
Because of its complementarity with the proposed project, this program is descnbed in Annex
nine.



12
2.3S   The Afican Development Bank (AflDB)   supporig the stregthenig of slntifc
and technia educadon at Uganda polytechnic, ITEK and Makreref University. Th
uropea Economic Commity (EEC) is providin assitance In taning for economic policy
and planing. Tbey  e also exploring further fincing in the areas of higher education and
tchical traing. Te ODA 1s working in curriculum development at the s0conday National
Teacher College (NTCs) In tde areas of science, maths, and english. Support for rehabUiation
of primary schools through the provision of roofin materials is being supportd by the
Japanese. A number of NaOs including Action-Aid, CARE, the Expeiment for Intmeaonal
LIng, Ofam, among others, are also assisting the education sector.
D. MDA Astlvtdq In the EdUCaft  &Cto
Imona km Previous MA InvolytM_
2.36   Since 1967, IDA has financed four investment credits to assist the Ugandan educaton
system. In general, Implementation of past projects has been uneven. The First Education
Project (Cr. 101-UG) supported the expansion of general secondary education and a
broadening of secondary curricula to provide more science and practical subjects. All pro3jet
physical facilities were provided as planned, although with considerable delay. bhe ma
objectives of the projects were achieved in a limited way with the oversupply of first-cycle
secondary school leavers, illustrating the limitations of basing prject justification on
economic growth and related manpower demand proections. There was an underutilization
of practical subject facilities resulting from a shortage of qualfied teachers. Finally,
expansion rather than a planned reduction in secondary school boarding resulted despite the
innovahve desig using portal-frme construction to allow for ready conversion of boarding
space to Instuctional use. The planned review of the examinton system and curriculum
revision was inoomplete. While construction of secondary schools under the First IDA Credit
was completed albeit with delays, there was little attention paid to the subsequent operational
maintenace of these facilities. Tbis was largely due to civil strife and overall decline of the
econown,y (see PCR, 1975 and PPAR, 1977).
2.37 The Second IDA Credit (Cr. 258-UG) provided assistance to technical, agricultural
and medical education, in an efort to ease well defined manpower shortages, as well as to
meet urgent needs for secondary science teacber training and for improved educational
planning. The project itended to expand one teacher training college, four upper secondary
schools, five technical secondary schools and two post secondary agricultural colleges;
provide buildings and equipment for one vocational taning cenr, three district farm
inues and rural training centers, one medical tutor traning college and one nurses and
midwives school; and finance technical asstce and fellowships. However, political and
economic disruptions prevailed throughout the life of the project leading to delays In
implementation, shortages of counterpart fumds, deetion of the expansion of five technical
seconday schools because of the Government's decision to change the programs and
objectives of the schools without prior analysis and justiflcation, and the final closing of the
project some four years beyond the original date. Tbe major lesson b drawn is the difficulty
of implementng project activities under 'unsettled cirumn. Whilo techncal astnc
helped maintain a sense of direction and contity, the Involvement of too many agencies in
the project (twen  stituidonal components across eight differet miniies) created
substantial problems of management md coordination (see PCR, October, 1983).



13
2.38   The Third IDA Credit (Cr. 1329-UG), provided support to fcUilties rehabilitation and
istructional materials replenishment across a broad range of institutions, i.e., primary and
secondary schools, teacher training colleges, specialized technical and commercial institutions,
and Makerere University. The project essentially focused on procurement and distribution of
construction materials, books, fumiture, equipment and vehicles. It further sought to have a
broader institutional impact by financing studies on technical education, educational financing
and teacher supply and demand and covenanting the systematic pwcurement and distribution
of educational materials and maintenance of educational facilides. The technical education
study stressed the need to establish a national manpower development council and technical
education board, relate training and curricula more to industrial demand and local needs, and
the inadequacy of facilities, books and equipment. 'Te finance study called for greater
dependence on parent and community contributions, improving cost-efficiency, and increasing
public and private resources to education. The teacher study projected a serious shortfall of
new primary school teachers up to 1993, improvements in teacher remuneratloy and programs
of in-service training. It also recommended that some smaller PTCs be converted into
primary or secondary schools, and that other colleges be expanded and improved. A new
PIU was built up with a five member expatriate team and ten national counterparts to
implement the project. While rehabilitation was completed and goods delivered, the project
failed to institutionalize the implementation capacity in the hands of local counterparts. It also
continued to demonstrate the earlier lesson that where select initiatives like the provision of
textbooks are not accompanied by contingent efforts to improve aspects of education quality,
e.g. teacher training, the overall impact is somewhat diminished. It is difficult to confirm
successful implementation of the various study recommendations. Again, the resumption of
civil unrest appears to have contributed to the evaporation of the various goods provided
under the project.
2.39 IMA IV (Cr. 1965), which is currently in its fourth year of implementation, has
concenaed primarily on the supply of educational materials and some limited construction
supplies to primary schools not assisted under IDA m. It also included several studies for
purposes of carrying out project activities, implementing policy measures, and preparing a
subsequent sector operation. Some of these studies are pardcularly relevant to the proposed
project, e.g., a study of the teacher establishment; the determination of optimum enrollment to
particular curriculum at TlCs and Technical Schools, measures to reduce oversegmentation of
primary school syllabus, ways to limit over-specialization of secondary teachers, and the
phasing out of boarding facilities and other student subsidies. As discussed above, the teacher
establishment study bas been completed and "ghost' teachers are already being removed from
the payroll. The covenant pertaining to addressing the discrepancy between the number of
teachers in the classroom (registered) and the number on the payroll is In the process of being
met. Some studies, particularly the study dealing with the cost-effectiveness of institutions
with varying curriculum, have not yet been completed. Apart fom the payroll - teacher
discrepancy and the outstanding studies, the project, supported by effective procurement and
distribution technical assistance, was effectively completed under cost and ahead of schedule
with substantial savings of about US$ 8 million. Therefore, the project was restructured to
include'the rehabilitation of teacher training colleges (2) and primary classrooms.
2.40   Three other ongoing projects are supporting the education sector. Under PAPSCA
and NRP, primary schools are being rehabilitated through community self-help and teacher
upgrading is planned using distance education methods. The recentty negotiated agricultural
research and training project will be assisting higher education.



14
2.41   In sum, civil strif has played havoc with the implementation of past projects.
However, thms effots were not with desig flaws. The first two projects tended to cross too
many insttudonal boundaries, emphasize singular unsupported areas of investment, e.g.
textbooks without teacher training, and the procurement of goods and services rather than
comprehensively addressing qualitadve and institudonal aspects of a particular subsector. The
latter two projects were of an emergency nature and focused on single element, e.g., textbook
designs. In order to prepare for greater software investments to balance the earlier emphasis
on hardware, well defined institutional responsibilities and arrangements must be determined
by the time of appraisal, and key management and implementation staff recruited and
developed. Under the proposed project, a PPF has been established to carry out the prior
planning, organizational and staff development necessary to facilitate project implementation.
In support of the government's dcenalizlon initiative, the project also includes a speciflc
component for strengthening the local capacity to manage and implement development
activities at the district and school. The focus of project activities has been placed more at the
District and school level rather than the Ministry level, with the core functions of the ministry
being clarified and strengthened to support decentralized implementation rather than to
undertake direct implementation from the center.
Rationale for Fbrther IDA Assistance
2.42   IDA has a long experience in the education sector In Uganda spanning over two
decades with our first project assistance in 1967. Since then, IDA has been the major supplier
of concessional financing to the sector. IDA recently helped finance the preparation of a
Draft Five Year Investment program from which the government requested financing for the
primary and teacher education subsector. Tbrough financing a part of the sectoral expenditure
program, the IDA can help shape the distribution of expenditures to favor uses at the primary
level which has a higher rate of return, and to encourage policy measures which wil
contribute to the sustainability of investments.
2.43   Expansion and improvement of the education sector will be a critical precondition for
the long term success of the nation's economic reform strategy. Resolution of the problems of
education in Uganda will require many years. Sound policy reforms must be coupled with
actions wbich maintain and strengthen the education system, supporting it even as it is being
reformed. Immediate steps such as the proposed Primary Education and Teacher
Development Project which concentrates on the base of the system would serve to pave the
way for more future investments at the post-primary levels. Pre-investment work is included
in the proposed project to prepare a secoLiary level investment program. Preparatory policy
analysis for university development is currendy underway as a part of the ongoing Uganda
Capacity Building Initiative.



1s
m. .EPznnwJz
A. PMioect Concet and Objective.
3.1    As summarized in the Govermnent's Letter of Sector Policy and attached Action Plan
(Annex 8), the Government intends to pursue its long-term objectives (access, quality, and
relevance) in the education sector by reforming the pattemn of resource mobUization and
allocation in the education sector, and through appropriate institutional reform and
strengthening. Within this framework, the proposed project seeks to assist the Govermment
by monitoring the pattern of resource mobilization and allocation in the sector, and by
financing specific investment expenditure in the related areas of primary education and
primary teacher training (taking into account activities to oe financed by USAID), and in
strengthening strategic functions of the Ministry of Education and Sports.
B. Monitoring of Policy Actiors
3.2    The Government, IIDA and USAID would conduct two tri-partite reviews of the
implementation of the Action Plan each year, during IDA supervision missions. Tbe
February/March review would consider the preparation of the budget for the fiscal year
beginning t*e following July, considering the overall pattern of resource mobilization and
allocation in te' education sector, but focussing more intensively on the two subsectors
(primary education, and primary teacher training) benefitting from investment expenditure
under the project. The other review, approximately six months later, would focus on
performance evaluation.
C. tirect InvzstMnt Em   ndI1uro
Compoent 1. Improving Prim=  School Teuhng and Manafement
3.3    To improve the quality of instruction at the primary level, the Government has
decided to establish a Teacher Deveipment and Managmnt S m (TDMS) in 10 of
Uganda's 38 districts. Component I is intended to support this effort.
3.4    At the field level, the TDMS will consist of a system of reformed or 'core' Primary
Teacher Colleges (PTCs), each of which is linked to about 25 "coordinating" primary schools.
each of which in turn is linked to a surrounding network of about 10 "outreach" schoois. The
coM FM  which join the TDMS network will have four tasks: (a) pre-service training of new
teachers; (b) in-service upgrading of practicing teachers through vacation courses and distance
education; (c) ongoing in-service training to bring new methods, texts, and learning materials
to teachers in the schools; and (d) management training and support for headteachers, DEOs,
etc. (see Annex 3, Chart 4). In addition, the primary school inspectors would be based at
the PMCs and would be integated into the in-service team serving the local primary schools.



16
3.5  'Me se                for inclusion in TDMS started with the two districts - Gulu
in the Northera region and Bushenyi in the Wester region - benefittig from PTC
rehabiltation under the ongoing IDA IV project. In order to choose eight additional districts
to benefit fom PTC rebabilitation under IDA V, indices based upon total enrollments and
enrollment ratos, the number of untraIned teachers, and the *gender gap" (female enrollment
ratio) were constructed, as a basis for ranking districts. Consideration was also given to the
balanced selection of districts among regions. Taking these factors into account, the
Goverament has decided to include the following additional districts: Masaka and Luwero in
the Central region; Hoima and Kabarole in the Western region; Mpigi and Lira in the
Northern region; and Tororo and Moroto in the Eastern region.
3.6   The paricipation of PTCs in the TDMS program. within the proect districts, would
be undetauken through a process in whicb all PTCs in each of the 10 districts (including
Bushenyl and Guu financed under IDA IV) could submit proposals for funding to reform
their teacher education efforts to achieve the new multi-function (pro-service, in-service and
upgrading) model. Proposal guidelines, criteria, and procedures would be prepared by the
MOES in consultation with District-level TDMS Coordinating Committees. The proposals
should include: TDMS network coordinating schools and outreach schools; facilities
rehabilitation survey and justification; draft training programs for each functional area; the
overall management structure; detailed cost estimates; and a description of implementation
a rrangement and schedule (see Annex 10 for a functional description of a model TDMS
system). An example of the facilities survey, along with school mapping, is being undertaken
in Gulu and Bushenyl as part of preparation under IDA IV for a piloting of the TDMS model.
3.7   In the selection of core PI   (approximately 16) to be rehabilitated or newly
contructed, the government would, as a minimum, apply three criteria: (a) centrality or
locational relationship to a potential network of primary schools; (b) access to essential
infastructure (roads, water supply, electricity); and (c) existing physical condition. in order
to maximie economies of scale, institutions would be reconstructed to an average boarding
capacity of about 200 students. At negotiations, government confirmed this process (LSP
Action Plan, Annex 8).
3.8   Tbe expected quantitative results of Component 1 will be to rehabilitate or construct
about 2,640 primary school classrooms, 200 coordinating primary schools, and up to 16
primary teacher training colleges, and one new Tutor Training Wing; and provide 900,000
textbooks, 95,000 teacher guides and about 16,S00 sets of supplemenay reading materials.
The infrastructure reconstruction would take place in districts with about one third of the
couny's population. lbe textbook provision would be nationwide, increasing the ratio of
textbooks from the current six students to one book to a ratio of three students to one book
for about 2.5 million primary school students in the core subjects.
3.9   The following sub-components are envisaged to accomplish the effective adoption of
TDMS.



17
3.10   Subcomponent la: EstabLlshing the Teacher Development and Mungement
Systan (US$ 29.8 million). Under this subcomponent, the following activites will be
supported:
Revision of the PIC ("grade Mi curaiculum, so that it is modular In structre,
facilitating In-service as well as pre-service training.
Staffing and Establishment for Reformed EPS. 'he TDMS Coordinator will assist a
committee, appointed by the Commissioner of Education, to produce a complete
description of staffing and an outline of the desired program of activities for the PTC.
The MOES will take the actions necessary to create the needed establishment of posu
for reformed P'rCs, and will ensure that a process is put in place to select and post
new staff.
In each participating district, District-level TDMS Coordinaing Commit_es wll be
established, and the network of coordinating schools an associated ouach school4
will be identified. This process will reflect the experience of a pilot effort In
Bushenyi District.
Three types of training activities for teachers will be conducted: reformed pro-see
training; in-service upgrading for selected untrained teachers; and in-service refsher
courses for all teachers.
Training of tutors (teacher educators). The Diploma in Teacher Education (DTE)
curriculum will be revised to reflect the TDMS philosophy of integration and
classroom-based training at the primary level. In order to complement the existin
uaining of teacher educators at the Institute of Teacher Education, Kyambogo (IMK,
near Kampala in central Uganda), Tutor Training Wings will be established and
staffed at the two PTCs being rehabilitated with IDA IV fiacing, in Bushenyl and
Gulu districts.
Headteacher training will be provided through both in-service and pro-service
programs.
A TDMS Section headed by the TDMS National Coordinator, will be established in
the Ministry of Education's Project Implementation Unit. The Core PTCs will, in
effect, serve as field branches of the TDMS Section to enable decentraized
implementation of the above activities.
3.11 Tbe greater part of the financing for this subcomponent will come from USAID under
Its Support to Ugandan Prmary Education Reform (SUPER) projet. Funds would be spent
on foreign and local staff com ion; transporation; trainee's expes; equipment; and
instuctional materals. IDA handing would be devoted to suppotig the local staff of the
TDMS Section.
3.12 Subcomponent lb. Rehabilitating and Constructing Facdlites (US$30.4 million).
A TDMS Reconstruction Fund MIRM) would be established in each District from which
proposals, or parts of proposals, may be financed. Ihe proposals would be vetted by the
District TDMS Coordinating Committee in consultation with MOBS. Specific DMS FMC
selection guidelines, criteria and procedures have been developed and approved by IDA (see
ISP-Action Plan, Annex 8).



18
3.13   For the PIC networks joining the TDMS, each of the approximately 25 coordina1n
schools would receive an added classroomtraning workshop, an office, a storeroom and two
staff houses, one for the headmaster, and the other for an in-service Ieader who would be
posted at the coordinating school and would be responsible for linkages with the PTC and the
outreach schools. About 20% of the primary school classrooms in the outreach schools of
each participating PTC network would be rehabilitated, except where this has been achieved
under the Program to Alleviate Poverty and Social Costs of Adjustment (PAPSCA) and
Northern Reconstruction Project (NRP). District-level planning committees would identify
coordinating and outreach schools to receive new classrooms. Approximately 330 classrooms
would be constructed In each of the districts, for a total of about 2640 new classrooms.
3.14  In order to complement the existing facilities for the training of tutors (teacher
educators), one additional Tutor Training Wing will be built with financing from the proposed
FifRh project, at the Gulu PTC.
3.15   Subcomponent Ic. Providing Leaming Resources (US$28.8 mllion). Since the
primary curriculum Is under review and revision, the project wIll support textbooks only for
the core subjects (English, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies) to ensure that their
relative position in the curriculum remains preeminent. Thus, the project would assist the
GOU in the purchase and distribution of four approved textbooks (one per subject) in
quantities sufficient to attain pupl-to-book ratios of 3:1 in each core subject in the first four
grades for all primary schools. The purchase and distribution of teachers' guides would
likewise be supported. Sets of student textbooks and teachers' guides would also be provided
to PTCs. To prolong the useful life of textbooks a book management course would be
included in the pre- and in-service teacher training curricula. This textbooks and teacher
guides will be funded by the Government from its budget, drawing upon the shilling
counterpart funds arising from the nonproject aid being provided by USAID. However,
procurement procedures will be reviewed by IDA.
3.16   The project would assist the Government in the purchase of ___=   _
materials in two forms. Firstly, 300 titles suitable for Grades Ps-P7 would be purchased in
sufficient numbers to provide a book box containing 60 titles for each school. These book
boxes would be supplied one to each of five neighboring schools. Every two month the five
schools would exchange boxes so that in one year every pupil would have the opporunity to
read up to 300 different tides. Secondly, reading materials would be developed under the
curriculum development component of the project (see para. 3.26) below. These materials
would take the form of ten children's literature tides suitable for use in grades 5-7 in
sufficient numbers to provide two copies of each tide to each school to be added to the book
boxes or to form the basis of a primary school library.
3.17   Sublomponent ld. Revitalizing Private Sector Publishing and Printi. This
objective would be achieved by a multi-faceted program consisting of. (a) technical assistance
(about 50 person months) and study tours (four person months) for private publishers and
printers and staff of the MOES's Textbook Unit (CM); (b) support for training courses (about
85 person months) for the private sector conducted by the TU, NCDC, and other relevant
training institutions on behalf of professional associations; (c) fiancial support for equipment,
training module development and training of the East African School of Librarianship (EASL)
to strengthen its publishing and printing courses for the private sector; (d) a study of policies
and development of an Action Plan affecting book development; (e) training course offred
through the TU and NCDC by the EASL and School of Media Deveopment and Graphic Arts
for the private sector and NCDC In the areas of editorial, design, illustration and
management; and (f) courses for the private sector in printing management, operator and book



19
vending, offered by the TU and EASL. Government would have prepared by August 31.
1994 a detailed training nrogram for private sector capacity building of the private sector
publishing and printing industy. (see para. 6.2i)).
Component 2. Enhandng Strategic MOES Functions
3.18   Subcomponent 2a: Strengthening Planning and Policy Analysis (US$3.0 milUon).
Under this component, the Education Planning Unit (EPU) would be strengthened to carry out
its recurring responsibilities; a new National Assessment of Educational Performance (NAEP)
instrument will be developed; and two specific policy studies covering Book Policy and
Secondary Education development would be conducted. In addition to these latter tasks being
valuable in themselves, participation in their implementation should help to strengthen the
analytical capabilities of the Ministry.
3.19   As described in Annex 11, when fully staffed (within one year of Credit effective-
ness), the Education Planning Unit wUI include professional sections for Statistics; Finance
and Budgeting; Planning; Project Preparation, Studies, and Aid Coordination; and Research
and Evaluation. The Unit would be completely computerized, and two vehicles, a copier, and
desktop publishing equipment would also be provided. Substantial local and foreign technical
assistance would be provided, including advisors to the EPU Director and the heads of the
Statistics and Finance and Budgeting sections. Staff development and training would also be
provided with two days of traning per month for all professional staff throughout the five
year project period. This assistance would strengthen the EPU in carrying out recurring
activities such as the quality and analysis of the annual school census, budget preparation,
school mapping, and the tracking of educational finance and expenditure at the primary school
level, would also be funded.
3.20 A National Assessment of Educational Performance (NAEP) will be conducted every
three years by UNEB in collaboration with the EPU. The objective is to provide policy
makers with data, based on an approximately one percent sample, on cognitive achievement,
oral proficiency, and practical skills such as measuring objects and esdmate quantities.
Additional information might include pupils' interests and attitudes, and data on school
facilities and textbooks. Periodic NAEPs (at three-year intervals) would make it possible to
monitor changes in achievement levels over time, and analyze policy issues such as teacher
and curriculum effectiveness, and the economic return to costly infrastructure investments.
A Management Committee consisting of members of key educational agencies and groups
(e.g., PTCs, NCDC, UNEB) would oversee the design and implementation of the NAEP.
Funding of one long-term technical assistant, development and pretetng of instruments,
training of field workers (drawn from the inspectorate and PTCs), field operations, and data
processing would be provided by the project. Government would sbmit trms ofrefere
for the NAEP Study for IDA review by December 31. 1994 (paa. 6.2 (ii)).
3.21 A Book Sector Policy Review would be undertaken to provide baseline data for
developing policy on the generation, publication, production and distribution of textbooks.
About 21 person-months of technical assistance would be financed to undertake this activity.
It would address policy and programmatic issues such as publishing rights, recommended
minimum physical specifications for textbooks, tendering procedures, ways to promote the
establishment of local book vendors, etc. It would also contain a stat  for developing a
market in school instuctional materials and make specific recommendations on: (f) the
formation, membership and objectives of a National Book Development Council; (ii)
ratification by Uganda of an international copyright convention; (iii) tariff reform proposals
for materials and equipment for local text and children's book publishing and production; and



20
(iv) possible lines of credit and/or incentives to provide impetus to the local industries. This
study would also investigate the factors affecng book life in Ugandan schools e.g. quality of
materials, bindings, book management procedures, micro-environmental factors, classroom
procedures, book-to-pupil ratios, etc. It is expected to provide an insight into the use and
abuse of books and make recommendations on physical specifications and storage and
handling of books in schools, and actual (rather than theoretical) replacement needs.
Government would submit revised terms of reference for the proposed Book Sector Policy
Review for IDA review by December 31. 1993 (para. 6.2 (iii)).
3.22 The secondary education study is designed to elicit information that will assist the
Ministry of Education and Sports in positioning the secondary school system in such a way as
to promote the atainment of national social and economic objectives. The study will cover
four major thematic areas: (a) Strategic decisions regarding size, function, and structure; (b)
Cost Functions of Education; (c) Public Policy Toward Private Schools; and (d) Curriculum
Choice in Today's Economic Environment. Each study component will be the object of an
independent investigation and final report. However, the contributions of research team will
utimately comprise a single, comprehensive overview of the most important Issues facing
Ugandan secondary education today (see Annex 12 for a further description of the study).
3.23   Government has prepared draft TOR, which are now being revised with the aistance
of IDA. The study will be contracted out using ICB procedures, and will be supervised by the
Education Planning Unit (EPU) with assistance from local and foreign technical specialists.
The project includes financing for a national seminar to publicly discuss the findings and
recommendations of the study.
3.24 Subcomponent 2b: Upgrading Management and Informatdon Systems (US$33
mIllon) Administrative systems throughout the sector would be strengthened, and top- aLd
middle-level management would receive trainine on principles of management and use of
these new administrative systems. The project would provide for the training of senior and
middle management, development of management tiining materials, development of a
taining and diffusion netwo,k utilizing the TDMS approach, and the training of trainers in
management techniques. A new in-service management training capacity would be established
in the TDMS Division of the PIU to oversee the development and implementation of
management training programs from Ministry to school levels, although much of the actual
work would be undertaken by the core PTCs, local management training institutions and
consultants. Technical assistance and some equipment to produce prototype management
training curriculum and materials would be provided by the project. Short-term training and
study visits would also be included in the project for middle- and seniorlevel managers to
learn from the experiences of other organizations and countries.
3.25   The project would finance the design and implemeon of new inbe_Sy==
including personnel records, accounting and auditing systems from the school level up through
the District and Central Mistry. An atendant management information system should be
developed to make such personnel and finance information readily accessible for planning,
programming and budgeting purposes at all levels. Technical assistance and computer,
copying and printing equipment would be provided at the District and MOES levels to support
this activity.
3.26   Sub2omponent c. Reforming Curriculum and Examinadons (US$4.6 millon) In
the area of czdgaldum, the project would assist the Government by: suppordng development
of syllabi for four subject areas for Pi to P4 (English, mathematics, science, social studies);
supporting the development of criteria and traing of writers, and writing of textbooks and



21
related teacher guides in language, mathematics, science, ad social studies for PI to P4;
supplying supplementary reading materia to PS - P7 pupils; and the  t     of children
literare wrles, illustrators and dignesa, the writing of such literatu, and the
procurement ad distribution of the publicadons for use in the schools.
3.27   Enamlmtun quality would be improved by: the establishment of national cucWulum
committes for each examined subject to monitor validity; a phased introduction of a system
of conDtiuous ssessment which would ensure the teaching of subjects other than those
traditinally examined; increasing the number of examination questions testiDg higher-order
cognitive skills; providing detailed feedback Information to teachers on pupil performance in
the national examinations; and creadng systems of forma infmation exchange between the
inspectorat, the Teacher Training Colleges (pTCs), National Curriculum Development
Center (NCDC) and Uganda National Examinations Board (UNEB). A reseach program
would be itroduced to monitor qualitative aspects of examinations. UNEB's capacity would
be enhanced tirough the provision of a new office and secure printing facility to be located at
Kyambogo near the NCDC, technical assistance, improved administration, modem equipment,
and an internal printing facility.
3.28   2ubcmponent 2d: Bulding Project Implementatdon Capacity (US$3.5 million)
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be reorganized with a project manger for each
donor assisted project. The Construction Department would be expanded with the addito of
14 zonal engineers and related staff. Within operational departmen, staff and resources
would be shared across projects thereby realizing economies of scale (see Annex 3, Chart 6).
The expanded unit would requir additional office space. Project implementation capacity
would be increased and provision made for management and coordination of multiple projects.
Construction, procurement and finance and adminitration fbnctlons would be expanded and
streamlined to realize economies of scale. Technical assistance, equipment and vehicles
would be provided as well as modest renovation to the expanded PIU offices. lie IEPU and
. wold be follx taffed and opeatina within the Mgnths    effectiveren WM 6.2



22
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1   Summary of Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$104.1 million. Items imported directly for the project would be exempt from import
duties and taxes. Detailed costs are presented in Annex 13 and summarized in Table 4.1
below.
Table 4.1: Proiect Cost SummarY
Project Component & Sub-Component              Foreigi Locl  Total-
E -   ...Ta
L   Impr.^Ing Primary School Tachng and Management
_~~~~ -X -_ -S2.                                          y       . 
Te.....velopment and Managemett Systemn (TDMS)            26.8.    .9    28.7   93 .: `*T
ties: Primay Schools/Teachers Colleges                    18.0 5.9    239    S.             5.9
& Tutor Wing
-PWO   of -L        Resources                             25.9    1.      21      95 
Buvlmliin, -Privat Se-tr Publishing and Printing          0.2     O.4        .;
II   ~uaau~ngStateicMOES Fnnctions
-tr ngtening PlaI  and Policy Analysis                    1.3     1.       2 -2.0
Ma_ement and nformation Systems                   1      .1 -     ..   - ...4
R*0rming Curriculum ad Examination                        3.3     0 i             S         42
BuligPoetIplmnainCpct                                  2.2 - .8         3.    73. 0   v
Dascilue Costa                                            78.9    -       9             E
Ph -clContagineces                                     1.9    01-.7      6    7
-          -rc  otnece                                        3.4    f.9 ... :.: i
-*    Thai PoetostsX  8.2   19.9   1*4   *809
* Jstoftaxeand duties
i    m  not add up due to rounding.
4.2     Base Cost Estimates. The project base costs are estimated to December 1991 prices,
calculated in US dollars, and converted to Ugandan Shillings at the prevailing exchange rate
of Ush 1165.13/US$ 1.0. Civil works costs are based on school building contracts and
building material costs under Credit 2088-UG recently adjusted to reflect current price
movements. Unit costs of furnishings, equipment, vehicles and teaching materials are based
on contacts for similar items recently awarded under Credit 1965-UG through procurement
with price quotations given in international catalogues. Technical assistance costs for experts
recruited internationally include costs of salaries, allowances and airfares and average



23
US$ 10,500 per staff month. Services of local consultants average US$ 2,500 per staff-
month. Short-term training overseas, including travel and subsistence costs, is estimated at
US$ 5,000 per month. Costs of primary textbooks, including materials, printing and
distribution costs, average about US$1 per copy.
4.3    The foreign exchan&e component, estimated at US$84.2 million or 80.9 percent of
the total project cost excluding taxes and duties, has been calculated as follows: (a) 70 percent
for contracted civil works and furniture; (b) 70 percent for primary school building materials;
(c) 100 percent for library books, vehicles, overseas training and study tours; (d) 95 percent
for internationally recruited experts, equipment, office supplies and reference materials; (e) 80
percent for textbook printing, publishing and distribution, and for equipment operation and
maintenance; (f) 50 percent for textbook development, in-country seminars/training and
project related trips, communications and other operating expenses; (g) 20 percent for
building operation and maintenance; (h) zero percent for staff salaries and per diem; and (i)
30 percent for studies, and services of local consulting firms.
4.4    Physical contingencies of US$2.6 million equivalent have been estimated at five
percent of base costs for all categories of expenditure, except technical assistance (experts,
studies and overseas training) which has been estimated at ten percent of base cost. The total
price contingencies of US$9.3 million equivalent are based on a six-year project
implementation period commencing in July 1993.
4.5    Recurrent Costs. Project recurrent costs totalling US$5.9 million breakdown as
follows: Incremental staff salaries for additional project implementation staff (US$2.6
million); consumables (US$1.8 million); maintenance (US$1.9 million) and; travel and per
diem (US$.6 million).
B. MnAnn Plan
4.6     The total project cost of US$104.1 million equivalent, excluding taxes and duties,
would be financed by the Govermment, local communities, IDA and USAID.
4.7     The IDA Credit of US$52.6 million (SDR 38 million) would cover about 50.6
percent of total project cost or 38.0 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 79.7 percent of
the local cost net of taxes and duties. The Government contribution of US$ 25 million
equivalent would finance about 24 percent of the total project cost. About US$1.5 million
equivalent or 1.4 percent of total project cost, would be contributed by the local communities
towards equivalent labor costs for rehabilitatng and completing the primary schools,
respectively, and towards recurrent costs for the maintenance of these facilities.
4.8     The IDA assisted project is part of a larger GOU program to reconstruct and develop
the primary education sub-sector. The principal funders of the program are the GOU, USAID
and IDA. IDA is providing an investment credit covering specific investments and attendant
policy reforms (see LSP, Annex 8), while USAID funds are disbursed through a mix of direct
project investments and non-project or balance of payments (see Annex 9 for summary of
USAID assistance). The breakdown of the project financing by component, including
contingencies, is as follows.



24
..... ..........- : ::.   .                    .                         ...ae|
'"~~~~~~~ .. ''.. ...,' ....."'.. .....A...'.
4.9    Counitera  Funding and Poect Sustabill   As noted earlier (para. 1
he Govearment has recently been experiencing difficulties in making adequate counterpa
fudiing available to exte0ally-assisted projects. This is a macro poblem, arsing from the
low Government revenue effort. In the Policy Frameworic Pape for 1992/93 - 1994/9S,
Goverament revenue is projected to increase from only 6.6% of GDP in 1991/92, to 11.6%
of GDP in 1994/95, more than doubling in real tem. 9is reflects the introduction of
revenue4  oing meatures, and expected improvement in ta. administron under the recena. y
esGorlished Uganda Revenue Authority. In addition, the Bank is curreaty erying out a
Public Investment Revew in Uganda with  a    view toward helping the Goverement to
ranionti ee its project potfolio, taolcg ino account fe likely ava6labiity of couniapart
ofiding as w9ml as other factors.
4.10    While these 'macro' measures of revenue increases, and rationalization of the
Government's overall project portolio, should help to promote adequate availability of
counterpart funding for the proposed project, the year-by-year budget reviews at an
appropriate point in the budget preparation calendar (probably April/May), and especiaUy the
Mid-Term Review in 1996, wfll be utilized to ensure consistency between IDA V project
activities, and the counterpart funding that will be avaiable.
4.11    Long-term sustainability of the project investme, following project completion,
depends on developments both outside, and within, the education sector. Outside the
education sector, it is expected that appropriate financid and structural poliies will facilitate
lower inflation, and increased savings and investment within a framework favoring economic
efficiency, enabling GDP growth to be sustained at 5% anmnly over the long tem  It is
expected that, within a greater resource envelope for Government expenditure, reduced
defense spending will allow a greater share of Government expenditure to be devoted to high-
priority cost-effective interventions in social sectors such as health and education. Within the
education sector, as indicated in the Letter of Sector Policy, greater cost recovery at the
seconday and teiary levels will enable a substantially greater share of the Government's
education expend to be devoted to piimary education.



25
C. Disbursements
4.12               . The disbursement profil for all sectors in Uganda is seven years.
However, as the project replicates to some extent the Fourth Educadon and the Program to
Alleviate Poverty and the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAPSCA) projects and the unit
implementing these is in place and effectively operadonal, a six-year implementation period is
proposed. The project would therefore be completed by December 31, 1999 and Its closing
date would be June 30, 2000. The proposed Credit allocation is shown below in Table 4.3
and the estimated disbursement schedule in Annex 14.
4.13    All disbursements would be requested in line with Bank Guidelines and operate
under procedures acceptable to IDA. All disbursements would be fully documented except
for payments for contracts and purchase orders less than US$50,000 equivalent and
expenditures for local training programs and non-salary operating costs, which would be
disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE's). SOE's would be certified by the
Head of Finance and Administration Department in the PIU, who would confirm that these
are in agreement with the ledger accounts, copies of which would accompany the claims. The
ledger accounts together with procurement and other supporting documentation would,
however, be retained. Payment for amounts below $350,000 equivalent would be made
through the Special Account. The minimum size application for direct payment or issuance of
Special Commitment shall be $350,000 equivalent.
D. Pocurement
4.14    Procurement of all IDA funded goods and services under the project and the revlew
of procurement documents shall be done in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines (issued
May 1992). World Bank sample documents for procurement of civil works and goods would
be followed under ICB procurement. The PIM would coordinate all procurement
arrangements. Procurement arrangements for items to be financed by IDA are summarized
below.
4.15    Procedures for International Competitive Bidding ([CB) would follow Bank group
Procurement guidelines. Procedures for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) shall be reviewed
by IDA and include public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, local advertising and the
award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Foreign bidders will not be
precluded from participating.



26
_ 



. .... ....4           A           1     4.
i1
.     .
I                                                            :
a S. ~7K..



28
4.16     Procurement under the project would be undertaken as follows:
(a) Ci worh
(i) The civil works contracts for the new UNEB facility (US$2.5 million),
and reconstruction of up to 16 PTC's in about 8 Districts and one new
tutor training wing (US$13.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of
ICB procedures smong pre-qualifled construction firms in accordance with
IMA procurement Guidelines. Domestic contractors would receive a
margin of preference in bid evaluation of 7.5 percent (following IDA
guidelines) over competing foreign bids. As a condition of credit
effectiveness. the borrower would have submitted standard bidding
documents for the TDMS PEC reconstruction. luo Wing. coordinating
scbools. and UNEB for IDA Review (para. 6.40.
(ii) Civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of the 200 coordinating schools
and new staff houses (US$3.8 miflion) would be awarded on the basis of
LCB procedures. (1) LCB procedures agreed with the Government
would, inter alia include evaluation and award procedures; (2) broadly
advertised in local papers with public bid opening; (3) not preclude
foreign bidders from participating; (4) awards to be made to the lowest
responsive competitive bidder; and (5) evaluation criteria to be specified.
The first LCB document would be reviewed by IDA prior to issuance to
bidders. Civil works contractors would be pre-qualified in accordance
with IDA Guidelines; and
iii) In keeping with the objectives of mobilizing local resources, GovernmeL
has decided that the rehabilitation of the 2,640 primary school classrooms
at the outreach swhoois would be implemented by the local communities
using the PAPSCA modelZ/. MA would finance the building materials
as discussed in (b) (iii) below. Overall responsibility for supervision and
tring of community participants would be undertaken by the PIU.
Foreign imported building materials (US$6.7 million), to be purchased
under ICB procedures (see parm (b)(iil) below) would be procured by the
PIU and distributed to stores at each PTC. Distribution of this building
material to sub-oounty level would be either by lorry or tractor and
financed by the credit. A zonal engineer, located at the PTC, would be
responsible with a local storekeeper for receipt and accouning for
building materialdistbution.
Z/  ltedW shools wou be pvie wih pakes of conctio matei, &mow, tubooks an  .tig ad.
Tahain gasp buldi tecni  would be provi  to two t c gaff (am sapue ad on mo) fau ac
Disc 3duoaoe Office-     tuym Wd  ibe respsbl for tainig a f r two  oame per adb.eoun. Thee
craftma along wth Xt oal engin. would provide t al advnd ouppt to the sdetd cowwaity groups md
wd m*wo the ddely of naftea pckae and ass in proper buldig techn     (h fi  evel wtran  unde th
PAPA pje I thi spec hs beon ompletd o  to tho extat pnrdtl, the rtm  wowd be utilzed un
ts proc). la he poores ae, sum lb or and  maeia cot wol be povided. The hea paicipig
conmniy (shoo  lmSang  cowman) would mile to neoa locl bbo ad aupply of local makeil and
wod hv e end q bilit to  mrerrao tXe comaltic° of do wo* a agree dwuin dX weetin pro_edre



29
Ob) Goda required for the project consisting of textbooks and teaching materials,
school/office furniture and equipment, vehicles and building materials would be
acquired as follows:
(i) Selected titles of library/reference books and printed materials (US$3.8
million aggregate) would be procured among prequalifled publishers based
upon an evaluation combining pedagogical and price criteria. US$25.0
million would be financed and processed by (IOU through a grant
provided by USAID. Lcal publishers would receive a margin of
preference of 15% over competing foreign bids for the supply of printed
books.
(ii) School/office equipment, and vehicles (US$5.0 million) would be
procured through ICB following IDA Guidelines. Equipment (such as
desk-top computers and software) which have to be compatible with
existing units, as well as miscellaneous supplies which cannot be grouped
into bid packages of US$S0,000 or more, may be procured through
-prudent shopping' by comparing prices obtained from at least three
independent suppliers. Items procured through "prudent shopping would
be subject to an aWegate limit of US$1.0 million equivalent.
Procurement of small quantities of low value equipment (computer,
software, etc.) may be purchased through LAPSCO, UNDP. Locally
produced furniture (US$2.6 million) would be procured dtrough LCB
procedures following IDA guidelines (para. 4.1S).
(iii) Building materials for repairs and rehabilitaton (US$6.7 million
aggregate) of outreach primary school buildings would be procured
through ICB following IDA Guidelines. The management and system of
accountability for the delivery, receipt and proper use of these materials is
described in para 4.16(iii)). The drft bi g dgcuments for th
procurement of imzorted building materials would be reviewed by IDA
(gara, .2 M
(c) Srxices. Technical Assistance (including both long and short term
assignments) for training, policy studies, research and school construction
management would be provided by firms and individual consultants (see Annex
16). Selection procedures for all consultants (firms and individuals) would be in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Al
consultant terms of reference, qualifications, expedence and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank and subject to review before an
agreement (or contract) is negotiated and signed. Procedures in consultancy
contracts involving firms would include the customary mandatory review by the
Bank of proposed short list, letter of invitation and award proposal for all
contracts.



30
(d)  O Dtlg. Operating costs include local staff salaries, allowances,
office running expenses and fuel for which procurement is not applicable. The
remaining expenses such as repairs, stationery, etc, would be fLanced by
Goverment using their own standard procedures.
4.17    Contract Reiew. During project implementation, IDA-Financed civil works
contracts above a threshold of US$250.000, and goods, equipment and services above
US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures and contracts below these
limits will be subject to post award review. The review process would cover 100 percent of
the total workcs contract value procured by ICB and LCB covering about 95 percent of the
total value of Bank-financed goods and services. Selected post review of awarded contac
below the threshold levels would be carried out on about I in 4 works contract and 1 In 8
goods and services contracts. Terms of reference, curriculum vitae and draft contracts and
letters of appointment for consultants would be reviewed by IDA prior to appointment of the
consultants.
4.18    Recording of ProcuMenet Information, Procurement information will be collect
and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to DA by the borrower (assisted by
consultants), indicating:
-I)3  revised cost estimates for individual conact and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual conracts;
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
(c) a completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit's dosing
date;
(d) at the time of supervision missions, a detaied staement of all procurement
undertaken to-date together with a forward forecast of anticipated procurement
to be undertaken in the coming year with estimated costs. Ze recrdiDgf
procurement informaion in accordance with IDA rqiements would be
followed dudng the prlect (see aM 6.2v



31
E. Accounts and Audits
4.19    Special Accounts. To expedite implementation, the Government would establish a
special account in a commercial bank through the Bank of Uganda acceptable to IDA. This
Sial Accou  in US Dollars under the Project Implementation Unit, MOES would be used
for the procurement of: (i) civil works, equipment, furniture and engineering services, school
libraries; vi) textbook publishing, printing and distribution; (iii) library and reference
materials; (iv) technical assistance, research and studies; and (v) project management,
operational and other non-salary expenditures.
4.20    IDA would effect initial deposits of USS 3.5 million after receipt and approval of
withdrawal applications. These amounts are estimated to cover about four months of eligible
payments. Replenishment applications would be submitted monthy, and would be
accompanied by full documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis of
certified SOEs. All requests for replenishment of the special accounts would be consolidated
by the Finance and Administration Department of the PIU and countersigned by the Head of
that Department.
4.21    CoMntart Funds. Adequate counterpart funds would be provided for the
beginning of each financial year by the Government through the annual budget of the MOES
to ensure that the project is implemented as described in the project implementation schedule
(Annex 12). By March 31 of each year, the Govermnent would reach agreement with IDA
on the adequate budgetary provision to support the project during the subsequent financial
year. Gov_nMent would open at the befinning of the project implementation period in a
commnercial bank in the name -of the PIU of the Ministra of Education and maintain until the
competion of the project. a Eroject Advance Account. and depost an initial amount of
USS200-000 equivalent In Uganda shillings in that account (see also conditions o
effectiveness). Subseqently. at the beginning of each QVarter depoit the ncayamount to
cover the Govenmen contribution to local Droject expenditures dudin teqaerthat is all
local expenditures which are not covefed by Doceeeds from the Credi ocntributions from
other donors (see ptara. 6.-2). A condition of effectiveness wfll be that Government has
opened the Prolect Advance Account and has 2aid in its initial deposit (se nara 6. 1.
4.22    Accounting and Auditin . The Ministry of Finace would maintain separate
detaied accounts of all project expendituires incurred by the MOBS and other agencies
involved in the project. Short-term technical assistance would be made available at the end of
each financial year to ensure that project accounts are professional, that financia statements
suitable for auditin are drawn up, and that the project is audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA on an annual basis In general, and on a semi-annual basis for all large
education expenditure progrms. During the audit of these annual accounts, the auditors
would apply special attention to verifying the reliability of SOBs supporting applications for
reimbursement from the Credit, and to the internal controls and procedures Involved in the
preparation of SOBs. Separate audits of the Special Account and SOBs will also be required.



32
4.23    An auditor's opinion and report, which would be countersigned by the Auditor
General, satisfactory to IDA on the interim and finat financial statements would be provided
within nine months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditors report would include a
detailed statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, and an
independent/separate opinion on the reliability of statements of expenditure as a basis for
credit disbursements. Project accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements will
provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of disbursements and the
project generally. Accounting and auditing rmigements would continue under procedures
satisfactory to IDA and that all audit reports be, available wthbin 6 months of the end of each
fiscal year (see para 6.2(viiV).
F. Prgc Implemg[Xti
4.24    Status of Proect Preparation. The project was formulated on the basis of the
findings of: (a) a series of 16 Pre-Investment studies financed under the Fourth IDA project;
and, (b) the Government's Education Sector Five-year Investment Program (1992-97) which
was based on the EPRC and pre-investment studies; and (c) Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions in July and November, 1991, respectively. A PPF has been established to advance
the status of project preparation and enable implementation to proceed expeditiously. The
PPF includes the following: (i) upgrade middle and senior management; (ii) revise the MOES
personnel records, accounts and management information systems and procedures; (iii) expand
the capacity of the PIU, particularly the construction unit to conduct surveys to selected
project sites and assess reconstruction and equipment requirements; (iv) begin the secondary
education development study; and (v) launch the TDMS organizational development by
recruiting and staffing the field level TDMS organization in the select Districts, and mapping
prototype FTC, coordinating and outreach school networks in a couple of Districts (Gulu and
Bushenyi).
4.25    Since the appraisal mission the government has issued its Dra White Policy EVer
Q Lducatio,n. IDA has reviewed this paper with the government in the context of the recent
social sector dialogue emanating from IDA's Social Sector Strategy Paner. The discussions
have resulted in the submission by Government to IDA of a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) and
Action Plan setting forth its general policy directions in the sector. The Action Plan indicates
Govermnent's intention to protect the instructional time for the core curriculum (English,
Math, Science and Social Studies) from future curriculum reform and to eansure that these core
subjects remain prominent on the Primary School Leaving Exam (see Annex 8).
4.26      OMrzation and Management. The institutional arrangements for implementing
the project are designed to: (a) strengthen the capacity of existing organizational units of
MOES, that is the central PIU and the DEOs ( within the framework of the newly created
TDMS units) in the project Districts to discharge their day-to-day functions effectively; and
(b) tighten coordination between institutions within and outside the MOES to realize the
timely and efficient execution of the project objectives. The lead and secondary
responsibilities for execution of project activities are shown below. The project management
arrangements are described in detail in Annex 3, Charts 2 and 6.



33
4.27    Toe lead agency for the project would be the MOES. The implementation of the
project would be coordinated by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the MOES in close
collaboration with each District level TDMS Coordinating Committee and the respective
DEOs. The PIU and respective TDMS units, would be accountable for: (a) the detailed
planning of each phase of the project and modification of the overall targets, when and If
indicated by practical exigencies which may appear as the project unfolds; (b) the coordinated
and logical development of the various elements of the project; (c) the final selection, in
collaboration with the EPU, of the primary schools to be relabilitated and PTCs to be
assisted, in accordance with the guideline, criteria and process described in paras. 3.6 and
3.7; (d) the management of all project funds and their disbursement through the channels
employed in the project; (e) the annual evaluation and report on the progress of the project;
and (t) updating the list of local experts as part of the annual report of activities.
4.28    In addition to the PIU, other coordinating mechanisms would be created or
reinforced under the project, to improve coordination in the implementation of specific
components. These would include: (a) TDMS Department, PIU to coordinate School
Improvement Activities at the primary level; (b) Textbook Department, PIU to manage the
procurement and implementation of all textbook publishing, printing and delivery services, as
well as the local capacity building training program and, in collaboration with NCDC, the
development of supplementary readers; and (c) Construction Department, PIL to manage all
civil works.
4.29    Responsibility for the supervision of designs and estimates for the civil works
(primary schools and teacher training institutions) under the project would rest with the PIU
Construction Department. Designs for the construction of the new and rehabilitated facilites
would be prepared by an architectural/engineering consultant firm selected using the schedules
of accommodation in Annex 15 and in accordance with IDA Guidelines. The procurement of
furniture, equipment and vehicles for the project would be undertaken by the PIU
Procurement Department, which has acquired ample experience in this task under previous
IDA projects.
4.30    lastitudon Building. In order to build up a permanent nation-wide capacity in
planning, managing, implementing and maintaining educational programs and facilities while
providing immediate capacity to design and implement project components, the project
features a long-term plan in which management and supervision will be strengthened
throughout all levels (Central through District to School) of the sector and in which the PIU
would be expanded and the Educational Planning Unit (EPU), District Education Offices, and
School Management Committees would be strengthened. Under this plan, 70 staff months of
training services will be provided to the full range of personnel in the system (Annex 16).
4.31    Ipementation Schedule. Project implementation is expected to take six years
beginning in June 1993. The project would be completed by December 31, 1999, and the
Credit Account would be closed on June 30, 2000. The implementation schedule Is shown in
Annex 17.



34
4.32     Monjlt,dlgLBingn andEvaluatin. Project monitoring would be the
responsibility of the EPU and PW. Implementation monitoring would assess the financial and
physical progress of the various components, as well as the progress in implementing the
policy measures supported by the project, with the most meaningfil and practical indicators
selected for each component. Such indicators are outlined in (Annex 18). The PIU would
prepare draft formats for monitoring implementation. These formats would be finalized after
close consultation with the implementing agencies and with IDA. The monitoring instruments
would be introduced in a project launch workshop organized by the EPU and PIU at the
outset of the project, and participated in by all agencies involved in the project (MOES
departmental units, MLG, UNEB, NCDC, The PTCs, MOFEP, Donors, etc.). Utilizing
these forms, the implementing agencies would provide data to the PIU for inclusion in the
consolidated semestral progress reports. Semestral reports would then be used in preparing a
comprehensive annual progress report and an annual work plan for the following year. The
annual work programs would include a review of performance of project implementation
personnel (incremental staff). These personnel would be hired on the basis of one-year
contracts. Government would prepare annual renorts summarizing achievements over the Rat
year and proposed work prograXps for the forthcoming year for all Droject components.
These would be nrepared by the PU and E    and submitted to IA for review by:
September- 30 gf the first yea and March 31I of ever succeeding yea. In addition. semi-
annual progress reports will also be prenared by the Borrower (see Rara
4.33    Reviw. The Government, IDA and USAID would convene tri-partite semi-nnual
imDlement ion reviews, one focusing on planning and budgeting and the second on
performance evaluation and policy implementAtion. The latter would feedback into the
preparation of the annual budget. More specifically, these reviews would: (a) monitor the
overall pattern of resource mobilization and allocation in the sector, focusing more intensively
on the two subsectors benefitting from investment expenditure under the project: primary
education, and primary teacher training and; (b) review performance on project specific
investment expenditure components of rehabilitation of primary school buildings;
rehabilitation of Primary Teacher College buildings; provision of textbooks and other
instructional materials; NCDC; UNEB, etc. (see para. 4.32 and key indicators, Annex 18).
4.34    A major mid-term review (in May 1996) would be undertaken in addition to the
semi annual reviews and normal supervision (see Annex 19, Supervision Plan). These
reviews would provide an opportunity to: (a) review major policies in the sector and recurrent
financing levels); () assess performance on the implementation of the various proga
components; (c) modify project implementation targets and strategies; and (d) prepare future
work programs and budget. The semi annual and mid-term reviews would include statements
from the MOES, the MOFEP, participating donors, and the agencies responsible for
implementing the various project components. The progress reports would be consolidated by
the PIU with inputs from the TDMS units within two weeks, reviewed by the joint Steering
Committee within four weeks, and forwarded to IDA within eight weeks of the end of the
semester. The MOES would submit to IDA by February 15 of each year the annual work
plan for the following fiscal year, and by September 30 the annual progress report of the



3S
prious fisa  year. Govrnment would cMry out a Mid-term review in 1992  Th'  S ftr
theview. includin a list of die main topics for the review, would be accentlbe to IDA and
the   nment would exchange views with IDA on fhe ilementation aan&eMt
recomendd by the review (se para 6.2flx)) Reprt requste by MDA which are necessar
fgr the success of thel review should be Vreared by yoe ent at least three moth ahead of
time, Ertoe Issano        were obtained at ntlatRonr that a cll rolect Comletion Re
gon the implementation exoerinc and Drject outcomes would be prepre by the PIU and
sbttdto IDA not later than six months after the closingf of the Credit (see2 p2a 6.2(=.



36
V. .WM NDR
A. Beneits
5.1     Bn.eflts, As the first phase in the long term goal of restored viability to the
Ugandan education system, the project would contribute by addressing immediate issues in the
areas of finance, access, quality and efficiency, and institutional development. This operation
would reinforce broader public expenditure policy reform with first steps in the move from
mere subsistence to stability and restored quality and growth. Access to education would be
increased by the provision of additional primary school facilities. Improvements in inernal
efficiency which reduce repetition and dropout rates would be realized through a more
relevant curriculum, the provision of textbooks, and an examination system which reinforces
learning rather than selection. Equity would be improved through the targeting of resources
to districts which have low female enrolment. School management and instructional
leadership would be improved substantially through the implementation of integrated teacher
and headteacher upgrading and in-service training programs. The Ministry's capacity to plan
and manage the system's reconstruction and development would be strengthened.
5.2      Communities would benefit from the project in terms of improved quality of and
access to educational services. About 700,000 primary school students would have uso of
bettet classrooms and a physical environment more conducive to the leaning proces. About
10 mllion suitable textbooks produced and distributed under the project would serve
approximately three times the current number of primary students enjoying access to
textbooks. Students, teachers and the community would have access to other book, with the
provision of about 330 mobile school libraries in rual areas and about 16 teacher training
institutions would be upgraded. Finally, with the qualitative imprvements in curriculum,
exams, teaching materials and teacher training programs supported by the project, primaty
school graduate would be better prepared to perform basic language, mathematical and
scientific concepts needed in daily life, and contribute productively to the economy.
B. Bila
5.3      Teeo are four maln rish. be firstr is is fnacial and parallels that for the
Government's development effort as a whole. The financial provisions for both capital aod
recurrt expenditures need to be put on a firm footing by the strengthening of tax
administration through the semi-autonomous Uganda Revenue Authority. Second, limitations
on MOES capacity could hamper prject implementation. Tlis risk is being addressed by
establishing in advance of project effectiveness a PPF which focuses on upgrading middle and
senior management, strengthening information and planning functions, and expanding the
implementation capacity of the PIU, paricularly the construction deparmienL Thirdly, the
project involves a major reform of teacher taining institutions frm an exclusively campus
based proesevice taining approach to a complementary outreach In-ervice program to
improve the training and quality of school management and Isction. Lack of shared
understanding at the District level of this new approach could hamper project implementon.
To midgate against this risk, substantial consultation has been conducted with District and



37
school lovd aneme and teacher educatos to build a broad conseus among those
involved In the projc   bis broad participatoy process will continu as part of a
decenlized (District-based) orgaaonal d staff developmet program durig the PPF
period and beyond. FouWly, the goverment draft educaton policy Wbite Paper, which Is
now undergoing public debate could have deleterious effects on learnI  outcomes, (eg., if
excessive vocatlonalozaton, KiswahDi, and community service were to prevail at the expemo
of instruction in the basic subject areas). To address this possibiity, the LSP and action plan
specifically protects instructional time on the core curriculum and ensures that these subject
are the core examinable subjects on the primary school leaving exam.



38
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENT REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1     Government will open at the beginning of the project implementation period in a
commercial bank in the name of the PIU of the Ministry of Education and maintain until the
completion of the project, a Project Advance Account, and deposit an initial amount of
US$200,000 equivalent in Uganda shillings in that account (see also conditions of
effectiveness). Subsequently, at the beginning of each quarter, deposit the necessary amount to
cover the Government contribution to local project expenditures during the quarter, that is all
local expenditures which are not covered by proceeds from the Credit or contributions from
other donors (see para. 4.21).
B. ASSURANCES
6.2     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)    Government would have prepared a detailed training program for
capacity building of the private sector publishing and printing industry
by August 31, 1994 (para. 3.17).
(ii)   Government would submit terms of reference for the NAEP Study for
IDA review by December 31, 1994 (para. 3.20).
(iii)   Government would submit revised terms of reference for the proposed
Book Sector Policy Review for IDA review by December 31, 1993
(para. 3.21).
(iv) The Planning Unit (EPU) and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
would be fully staffed and operational within three months after
effectiveness (see para. 3.28).
(v)   Government would have prepared for IDA review the draft bidding
documents for the procurement of imported building materials
(para. 4.16b(iii)).
(vi)   The recording of procurement information in accordance with IDA
requirements would be followed during the project (para. 4.18(d)).
(vii)  Accounting and auditing arrangements would continue under
procedures satisfactory to IDA and that all audit reports be available
within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.23).



39
(viii) Government would prepare annual reports summarizing achievements
over the past year and proposed work programs for the forthcoming
year for all project components. These would be prepared by the
EPU and PIU and submitted to IDA for review by: (1) September 30,
1993, in the first year of project implementation, and (ii) March 31 of
each year in succeeding years of project implementation. In addition
semi-annual progress reports will also be prepared by the Borrower
(para. 4.32).
(ix)   Government would carry out jointly with IDA a Mid-Term review in
1996. TOR's for the review, including a list of the main topics for the
review, would be acceptable to IDA and the Government would
exchange views with IDA on the implementation arrangements
recommended by the review (para. 4.34). Reports requested by MDA
which are necessary for the success of the review should be prepared
by government at least three months ahead of time.
(x)    Government would prepare a final Project Completion Report (PCR)
on the implementation experience and project outcomes for submission
to IDA not later than six months after the closing of the Credit (para.
4.34).
C. CONDMONS OF CRED1T EFFECTIV
6.3      Govemment would have opened the Project Advance Account and paid in its initial
deposit (para. 4.21) and; submitted standard tender documents for the key project components
fbr IDA review (par. 4.16 (a) (i)).
6.4     Remmedto. With the above assurances, the proposed project forms a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 38 million (US$ 52.6 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Uganda, at standard terms, with a 40-year maturity.



40                       ANNEX I
Page l of 3
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
LIST OF DOCUMENS IN PROJECT F1LE
Republic of Uganda. Report of Education Policy Review Commnission.
Ministry of Education, Kampala, January 1989.
Republic of Uganda. Government White Paper on Implementation of the
Recommendations of the EPRC eanied "Education for National Integration
and Develpmeot'". Draft Version Ministry of Education, Kampala, April
1990.
Fve  Ye  Education Sector Investment Programme: 1992/93 - 1996/97:
Volume I. Kampala: Ministry of Education, June 1991.
Five Year Education Sector Investment PrograMme: 1992293 - 1996197:
Project Summary Account and Detailed Project Costing. Kampala: Ministry of
Education, June 1991.
Five Year Education Sector Investment Progme: 1992/93 - 1996/97:
Volume U - Project Profiles and Priorities. Kampala: Ministry of Education,
August 1991.
EMwaysMM ent Studies
Levine V. and Sentongo, C. Financing and Efficiency of Education in
Ugnda: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of Education,
Uganda, December 1989.
Serefaco Consultants Ltd. D2esign of Standardized Accounting System for
Primar hools in Uganda: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the
Ministry of Education, Uganda, January 1991.
Greaney, V. and Ongom D. L. Reform of Public Examination System in
Ugada: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of Education,
Uganda, December 1990.
Stuart L. Non-Formal Education In Uganda: A Pre-Investment Study. Report
for th.e Ministry of Education, Uganda, May 1991.



44,                       ANNEX 
Page 2 of 3
Jemborie, A.S.  titutlonal strengbtenlnr of the Project ImDementatign Unit
CM: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of Education, July
1990.
Illukor, J. O., Mulemwa, J. N. and Ssebuwufu, P. J. M. Science Educto i
Sndary Schools in Uganda: A Pro-Investment Study. Report for the
Ministry of Education, Uganda, December 1990.
Target Engineers and Associates. Technical, Business and Vocational
Education in Ueanda: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of
Education, Uganda, December 1990.
Khan Q. Design of a National School Maping Project: A Pre-Investment
Study. Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, March 1991.
Evans D. R. and Odaet, C.F. Teacher Education In Uganda 199200Q: A
Pre-Investnent Study. Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, March
1991.
Denning, C. and Sentamu D. Books and Istructional Materials in Ugnd: A
Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, March
1991.
Wyles J. H. School Constuction Pgraogme: A Pre-Investment Study.
Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, April 1991.
Namuddu K., Nalwanga-Sebina A.J. and Sengendo J. Special -GuM
Orphans and the Gifted: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry of
Education, Uganda.
Carpenter, J. A. Smith R. L. Farrell J. B. and Nkata, J. L. Education
ManageMent Training in Uganda: A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the
Ministry of Education, Uganda, July 1991.
Nazareth, A. Projections of Enrollment and Resource Regoirements for
Primara and Secondary Education: 19902002 . A Pre-Investment Study.
Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, April 1991.
Target Engineers and Associates. Science and Technology Equipment
Projection Unit (STEPT): A Pre-Investment Study. Report for the Ministry
of Education, Uganda, April 1991.
Leigh, S. Radio Education in Uganda 1992-1997: A Pro-Investment Study.
Report for the Ministry of Education, Uganda, May 1991.



ANNEX-I
42                        Page 3 of 3
Reated Studies Documents
DANIDA. Special Education and Related Services in Ugada: Appraisal
Report and Project Proposal prepared for the Miistry of Education, Uganda,
January 1990.
African Development Bank (ADB),  aethenng of Scienic and Technical
Teacher Education in Ugmda: Appraisal Report prepared for the Minstry of
Education, Uganda, May 1990.
PAPSCA: Construction Guidelines fo Edmay Schools in Upgnda: Ministry
of Educadon - P.14 Kampala, December 1990.
UNESCO/African Development Bank. Basi Edau     n QuAgneauui
Oualitv Improvement: Project Identification Mission Report, prepared for the
Ministry of Education Uganda, September 1990.
UNDP/UGA1871014. Basic Education for Na_ona DevelonMe  1987.
Makerere University. Teacher Education Materials Develggment: A Project
Proposal from Uganda, November 1990.
World Bank,        U da Reconstructign Progome - Identfication
Mission Repor of the World Bank, April 1991.
-World Bank Internal Documenfts
Aide Memoire. Identification of a proposed Uganda Education Sector Project,
August 15, 1990.
Aide Memoire. Preparation of a proposed Uganda Education Sector Reform,
Reconstruction, and Improvement Project, and Appendices, Janay-February
1991.
Aide Memoire. Preparation of a proposed Uganda Education Sector Reform,
Reconstruction, and Improvement Project, and Appendices A - G. July 31,
1991.
Aide Memoire. Appraisal of a proposed Uganda Education Reconstruction
and Development Project, and Appendices A-L, November 1991.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ga "st    SCIooL  gUmOUJIW , *  0TtOL         PATIOS, It  aU           MD  D im  IC? . 1990
DISThlCT |01S                                |33 IISOThL
I4IS-12  e^r.  Earohla.   Ra^to   14-12 Jare  Cnrollsnt   Ratio |          -31  ers c   nrollsut   Ratio
SAIPAJA            6,20        3091    39.3b           2164         33,936    43.420         55,994      44,127    43.490
Impala         1,?203       3s,197     W 39.3        11,16e      33,930    413.42        ISS.994      44,21    41.49t
CtNTlUAL         406,045      244i.41S    *I IS        391.,34     35,193    4.0            2917,}99    494,96    42.313
Usiangalq        1,201          1      54.725         1.174         612    S7.S S          I.SSS       1,31)    Sl.740
Lsuro          446S3l       34,034    74.340         44.342      33,039    14.490         66,92S      41,64     25.43
amabka         62,100       3,936    33.644          62,33       34.216    413.30        345.533      44,264    46.130
apigl          90,*44      S,364    41.990          90.915      42.944    49.600       1369,39      120,0s0    44.390
SubenbA         4,144      40,949     MM.9)0        41,663      39.6a1   W4             323,95*     60,169    4S5.3%
Oukono         66,394       S4.SS      1 137S 19,f9f             SS,1O       4n9.60      130.)51     112,241    10.06o
Uschai          36,191      13,294    40.960         31t,99      23,122    *2.460         15,33       41,.09     44.110
tSSTLPH          413.325      345,946    61.490       493,492      235,32    4I.510        625,251    446:,)        13.5
1gang.         9S539S       42,234   414.5          94. Se0      J1.500    39.520        390,21s     72,914    43.936
Jinja          20.443       22,S14    19.371         23,301      12,23      716.50        S,714       44.60S    41.72%
Remit          48,361       27,230    S4.230         48,314      22,541    41.05s         94.53      49.653    Sl.SS4
Rapcbora       55.493       53,S4I   300.410 I       11.419       9.35    19.930          22,920      20,494    90.300
hueS           24,3SI       34.sse   140. 3          24,406      23,269    95.420         46,944      S71.46   116.19%
Sbtl.          49,332      71,46S  1532.150           9,39S      10,494   303.56%        10,141     149.3s5    101.19%
soroti         43,74       44.261   I5I.030        45,431       40.934    93.920         31.539     901,241   2I2.SS
Tororo        9S,401        16,45S   OSIOSS          91.112      40,215    45.4S         36J,II9     139,040    15.94%
NORT"S9RN        35,401       344,284   100306.0      *13,14       596,45    42 .30       4S3,493      542.13S    *S.4S
Apac           44,2s5      S,436   309.410          44,609      32,424    10.410         92,241      63,062    90.020
&to&           43,699       31,033   1264.20          3.SS3     43,420     6.320        1231,452    324,4S3    91.450
auIt           33,940       43,.68   122.990        3J,'13       2S.453   17.3S5          42,134      41.259    99.240
RiltUm         3S.672       49,2S4   131.300         35,416      2S.403    71.200         13,S50      34,4S5    104.340
lotido         19,400       35,43S    S77.13         191,01       S,S96    10.34%         39,509      13,411    44.0)o
Ltir           49,3S        S5,293   lid'm          49.44        32,5s4     45.59%        99,503      63640    616.226
ooreto         141,3S9       5,14    29.17S          10,290       3,11S   M9SGS           3,4619       6,941    24.130
kalo           33,1s5      51,213    9S.SS             ,OSS    103,471    S.030         34,206      23,14      14.310
Nowbl          323.63       32.211    99.490         32,20       39,332    59W5M          44,S93      S,399       9.560
bCsrtrm          4S4,435      33,oi    713.40         4S3,9s2      263,251    41.940       915,341      4a6,J)4    41.30
SundibWgyo     33,S30        6,152    10.10S        11,446        S,414    49.45 0        22,996      53,24G    40.12S
Ouoshnpi       7S1,33       S9,434    19.913        14,106       5,53      46.90         1449,623    350,94S    14.01
Nole.          9,100S       42.694   109.93%        36,394       36,330    96.330         11,799      35,196   104.1A1
Rabalo    *     4,642       4V,446    13.440        44,219       3S,902    SS.3S        1926,903   J ,r 63     4.1
tabarol6       13,I33       S2,644    15.90         13,434       44,464    40.*0         341,221      93,336    44.501
11ass,         34,331       23,350    66.450        34,400       36,12    5.1.19        49,161       42,422    43.340
Kagindi        14,614       23,2317    4.09%        24,s43       59.030       .4          49,291      42,241   6*S.6O
Waarara        93.030       41,262    S0.64%        92,50l       40.543    43.331         6S,5SI6     61,629    41.340
mukmangmri     39,653       29,932    15.230        39,6§    23.1          44.540         19.491      s1,353    23.960
liora.           4 °'41 006  3.'1 2.7'1   17.990 '?  3560    3 650 193    43.340    3,325 860   2,344 934    31.1970
Source a       "op tion figure* - 9issen eatislt-. beand eo I991 poplatlonA  census
tnroliment Iagurns - INSS *99  chnol  cas2uc
iI



44
2
TABLE 2
REPUBL1C OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY STUDENTtVEACHER RATIOS & STUDENTMAND TEACHER RATIOS. BY DISTRICT
1990
1  TOTAL      TRAINED       TOTAL        J STUDENT/    S TUDNT/
TEACHERS   TEACHERS    STUDENTS             ZA.    TRAINED TEA.
I     RATIO        RATIO
I Apac             3,172       1,746        83,062         26.2         47.6
2 Arua             2,147       1,503       124,458         S8.0         82.8
3 *undibugyo          532         137       13,826         26.0         100.9
4 Busheni          3,338       2,387       110,965         33.2         46.5
5 Gulu              1,799      1,302        67,219         37.4         51.6
6 Boima            2,921       1,291        81,196         27.8         62.9
7 Iganga           3,651       2,131        79,774         21.8         37.4
S Jinja             1,499      1,305        44,685         29.8         34.2
9 gabal-           3,248       1,975        83,362         25.7      *  42.2
10 Kabaol.         3,607       1,685        97,330         27.0         57.9
11 Kalangala           89          49         1,373         15.4         28.0
12 Kampala          2,197       2,147        64,727         29.5         30.1
13 Kamuli           2,452.      1,203        49,853         20.3         41.4
14 Kapchorwa          759         506        20,696         27.3         40.9
15 Kasese           1,594         807        42,422         26.6         52.6
16 Kitgum           1,922         839        74,657         38.8         89.0
17 Kotido             540         301        17,413         32.2         57.9
18 Kumi             1,637       1,178        57,846         35.3         49.1
19 Lira             2,243       1.627        87,840         39.2         54.0
20 Luwero           2,700       1,173        67,063         24.8         57.2
21 Masaka           3,063       1,801        66,264         21.6         36.8
22 Mauindi          1,458         687        42,247         29.0         61.5
23 Mbale            5,799       3,751       149,159         25.7         39.8
24 Hbarara          3,763       2,667        87,829         23.3         32.9
25 Moroto             347         274         8,941         25.8         32.6
26 Moyo               770         487        27,746         36.0         57.o
27 Mpigi            4,105       2,839       120,050         29.2         42.3
28 Mub*ndo          3,108       1,342        80,789         26.0         60.2
29 Mukono           3,898       2,158       112,243         28.8         52.0
30 Nebbi            2,295       1,111        51,399         22.4         46.3
31 Rakai            1,777         649        47,016         26.5         72.4
32 Rukungiri        1,892       1,429        57,157         30.2         40.0
33 Soroti           3,463       1,853       107,247         31.0         57.9
34 Tororo           6,364       4,699       139,060         21.9         29.6
ITOTAL  -       84,149      5 ,039    2,366,914          28.1          46.4
Source : MOE 1990 School Census



45                                              4NNEX2
TABLE 3
REPtBIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACEER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONDMTION OF GOVERNMENT AIDED PRIMARY SCHOOL BUILDING BY DISITRICr
19 9
DIStRICt    SCUI                    NO. OF CLASS-IS.                                   NO. of OTHER now$
PIN   Si:    TEIuP           TOTAL  tATIO %        PM       "l-    TaIe         TOTAL  RATIO S
PENN                      PEIR/Lt                  pan"                       PERM/TL
I ApC              230           201       776       760     1817    15.5           127      2U7        20       683    18.6
2 Aru               254         1169       32        723     2216    52.8           367        73       200      60    S7.3
3 Bundibuo           52           32       202       121      35s      9.0             3       51        22        76     3.9
*  usheni           451         1571      1265       611     347    45.6             532      337       173      1042    51.1
S Oulu              142          577       271       275     1123    51.4           222        65        72      359    61.8
6 Hsol              194          669       395       921     1965    33.7            16"      160       103      431    39.0
7Igangs             333         1060       31        s       2261    47.3           334        54       151      539    62.0
O Jinja              8           S'2       142        99      743    67.6            185       16        12      213    66.9
9 Kable             346          1250     1338       1       2770    45.1           378       333        92      803    47.1
10 Kaurete           209          912       S5        944     241    37.4            242       250       118      610    39.7
11 KatmutI            16           52        24        17       93    S5.9            24         9         2       Ss    68.6
12 lIcypea            71          674        37        11      922    94.8           346         9         6      361    95.6
13 Kamuti            175          656       1SO       309     1147    S7.4           249        63        51      363    ".6
14 apehorw                         61       225        27      316    19.3            24        41         1             36.4
IS Kses*             1SO          2         396       48      1173    25.0           107       106       152      365    29.3
16 KIto              196          393       284       606     1253    30.6           130       101        a5      316    41.1
17 Kotide             76           57       216       16       309    14.5            32        4S        39       119    26.9
18 KUsf              115.         A9        161       134      793    62.5            135       15        25       175    77.1
19 Lire              210          265       650       600     171      15.5           147      301       277      725    20.3
20 Lumero            161           736       185      112       035    71.3           247       30         7       24    87.0
21 Na"sk             241          1320      386       203      1909    69.1           369       63        27       459    80.4
22 Nasindl           145          413       179       3a       955    43.2            136       41        41       218    62.4
23 Otoe              416          680      1731       762     3173    21.4            249      402       104       735    33.0
24 Uerare            394          64       1507       922     3093    21.5            222      393       275       893    24.9
25 Noeoto             48           lt9      113        21      253    47.0             54       14        20         8    61.4
26Noo                 60          220         0       109      329    66.9            133        0         9       142    93.7
27 Npiof             340          157       431       276     2604    72.8            7         134       2S       930    S2M
20 IAende            211           767      260       375      1422    55.3           219       176       45       "43    49.4
29 uukono            304          1365      3S6       375     20M6    65.1            431        52       47       530    81.3
30 NeoI              175           385      169       742      1296    29.7            97        43      138       278    34.9
31 Rkai              186           726      "5        262      173    49.3            223        91       59       373    59.8
32 Rukwigi           268           495     1196       257      1945    25.4           123       343       65       531    23.2
33 Soroti            331           670      296      1350      2316    2S.9           215        60      152       427    50.4
34 Tororo            441          1029      90S      1249     3186    32.3            323      .1t3      263       769    42.0
TOTAL            7073        z22r      15976    1542      S4101    42.0           7561     434       3136    1S041    50.3
source : "0 1989 Schoot Cnew



46                                  ANNEX 2
TABLE 4
REPUBUC OF UGANDA
PRPMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
PRMlARY SCHOOL CURRICULVM BY SUBJECT AND GRADE (1w1)
Subjed tP.1                 P.2      PJ       P.A      P.S      P.6      P.7
Number of peiods per subjet per week
Language                       II      II       10    .10         9        7        6
Arithmetic                      5      5        7        7        5        6        7
- - - -- --
Science/Health                 4       4        7        7        8        8        8
Social Studies                          -       4        4        4        6        6
Religion                        5      5        5        5        4        4        4
-~ - - - - - - 
Arts/Crats                      2      2        2        2        2        2        2
Music                           1       1       2        2        2        2        2:
Physical Education              5      5        5        5        4        4        4
TOtWl                       33      33       42       42       38       39       39,
Notes.
1. For P. I - P.4 periods are of 30 mnutes duration.
For P.S - P.7 periods are of 40 mInutes duration.
2. Language:
In P.1 - P.2 ¶rural areas) the local language is usually taught.
In P.1 - P.2 (urban areas) English is taught.
In P.3 - P.7 English is taught throughout.
Source: MOES Primary School Inspectorate, 1991.



RDUKIJC OF UGANDA
PRIMY EDUCATION AND T13ACER DEVELOtEI PRojECT
Ostic 14gd.e.m kie       wived Sirm Nice* SMaess O.haks
Primme chami UnSimeb 0.yulinemaa
sues~~~ ~ ~ iuwa ss nt__l.
.............
A3nrusSw I+     _"es.                                                                                                                           I
.Ce.t p    fllmo  Sol1 IM    d   IWO wllrtsi    11.S2    IISM          12    IL-I 1ILSZ    ILI-S 11.52 zILSP    1121. I.sm IS 
lkudmiIlhetba  Sol Ga*ll                     6.09     6.96     S.S       S.S0     S.00      S.60     4.S      * 4.S     4.00     4.II      *.00 '
easel3 3ea6bw solole*       l lred IlhwAsend   610.SS   413.0   SSS.S1  403.01   IM.S1   M.15  920.16   963.91  3114.19  374.6M  3114.10
a.lileaa sees 1.lr.d 0ams3Sw                         11.14    01.69    41.69      3S.30o    1.Sr141.01    £3.328   3n.w          M."  o    "0Z
*#epSacamg Cage                               6.1?   31.66       1.16    96.$SS  1    4  ls   216.5   21 n01.11 S 363..S 11.01  *1u eo
legal ,      _Sees Sqied Arnaaiv                    SF1.06   219.4   126.01   131.41   291.90   401.'  16S.06   S136.6'  60.14   *195
AV.CseS per SeaShed Sol fusS ad 11WO pires$    33.12 33.1?    13.               33S.       3.2    33S.S S    3112    33.LS     31.1t    3S32
.3.3$ tos USS gUiMl660                               2.01     2.16      2$G       1.63     1.9      *."      *.21     Sf.9     S1 .1      S:11
Avlern  alas 2
sludaie me,.beali seg  aGos                  6.960    S.1      S.O       S.2S     4.6       6 4.1    4.60     1So        1.00    2.11n    2.S
Saraer 6.pacmi  laCe                         11.96
I t eml_   Sees  rWSieqd Igbauawds5         311   692.0   111.S1    69.69    6.03    s9. II 311.0"   262.1   31".10  303.14  22.10
addigs. ^eg sees a"eiled Iuuaa33                     S3.6     63.30    16.32   336.2   311    I16.31   26.0             3.11    6.3    29  0?z
oe_  Ueplmm             est 3@h                     6".12   36.6?   361.36   201.9   266.3 to   61.        163.03   636."    134.9t  190 I
13lo.3.   Ib"  SeeSs   Se.Wird Aewmlly             3.3    221.6         .4    Mo. 11 4.004t9.0    16.1 .U.49   162.09 S0  081
Awe.tCse pe  leg         Set fUSs Wm 3    pIg*s      31?13     33?2   13312    33.1    3LS.2    33-?          3S.       1?1  I3t.?t         it
g.a3 coal 303 Missio3an                               2."      2.160      .91     1.n      4.31s    S."       6.SS     S.1       S.1      30o.26
Iwcez            P ater6. A. tLli-L.                            s1mSLa fee r p    j61                            ift06lem!   M       : A pop-
gm,sgnmgl   SSuwB. IquiS I              ,,e  I"ih            VIO.  *pb                       rm  tda  o  model .Go to  r*3&
"el Mt"n     uqa .  uWdqr In mail.?t
C~



REPUUC OF UGANDA                                                 M;islry gf   niun mod Sp
PIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DIVEWhONTI PRIOJBECT eF09lX[220
UIU)      u~v    t(CI    11                      Iza   .1mw                                                                 ..am
IEa@~~E~
Uf-i                                                          '           ' *10
X~~~~~~" ml""                                                                                             Ms:    n -    X                 f
I MI            didAa. PUu d       iCCC:                               Imci.pal    I c*u.m   *               ASI            Adim   sad of .sbI'1 .
CflS,:          uad. o   1I. 1411.S 4 C.maiaiag       lED:                                                        s lAS:  l     l isseiaoq  4- Se.a
CItINIV:       Vk.hgs asommUu       ommnalwOuQ0        CIWl:           CS..) @1 lurlolw*it                  Cli)           #la&# Es6.auii. 1Wur
ISAW           Sen  Aidemaauu   Sooc                   SS             S,    w.gSthmi _*wse caas.   TscMuI e ' Cshm_ ,.adsa1Ih. _ J
*11..                                                                            1,r. ...  IArc:  upe .C1.mgui IIS Oiiemi Cwar1SA,
VCIUHIV:       5g. Aaiw4 SUitsyAuat.'y                  SIll(I:       Cls'X C...i.. III £kiacl:                            *id. 1~mmmur hiv.Im



TDMS* Network
Tom    894.    PO
I  .111  ,11           I 1.11 l
a PRIMARY TEACHER COLLEGES
I1I I .1I1 1                111   1 1   1E          I     I
25 Co-ordinaling Schools
1*111   111  .11    111 111111                   1!.mmm. OUI1.h.Ch
10 Outreach Schools
'lomb D*eveSpmel .04 """""""""l X1 *e
9                                                       W



National Level TDMS* Structure
No... 
P/SMOES
NI.. .9 L.gal .ine.m.S         .PIU
.____L ..    _  .
TOUR CO-OR hIM Alt Oh    [tFiji A Abid   F -
Co## A leg. ,,. .Mg 5los
ISMSOue.aeb*| so    g
)~~~~~~~
UeeIS*uSegsystemt.PTCs
"**l.s, eev.l.p..eo £ M.s.UO SvSo.  PC
bbb@# 1 Itt Jl***#wp



District Level TDMS* Structure
lea,,,s, Ike *.a.l"                                  P. _
UIC *e pese*agellv      I
Prlmary Toacher Collego
3ssSd.sSSaSI|    @0 __1 p                                      WI                    I -I  - La-
;ea  'es.                     |           oNse      l      Heed               Hqed^*     l       Head
D*". Schol          Case   *|1** |OSII    Cub eels        lob  ICeve           Meeegsmea I, ^-¢      Le-elses
.me *stee                                 ecsg                                                          se 
CesiWtlo  Ies                                                                            .  .l._.
|Me **leeSale  l  S11elesA  Hesith
Hems issal v"sea
castle* sllueedltCoeoou                                   0-
b & slsf Vaaallee4l
|~ ~ ~~~eT Ilgade Iseee I IeUsue I
[z1   0  0    0   1   1 0    LJ                         I -.ullse    Suppos '    /
CO-ORDINATING SCHOOLS
*1sashee Deu.lep.eel S Us^eagemee Stale4
:!I



Education Planning Unit Structure
____ ttJ0                                          i
_al _slvl  _s _. .boo         . ei..             a ai. _e       e.ses.         _______
Seellke Ue         . eed      See -ea.- oe,.a   d                 le _ed    08       * W
*e*" Se bes 683|"@    £O*u*8e. 66             8 | se..e  ii,    ce.*-@- Cood 63  Skes 6
Neosemeo.# oil sf
so". "Ol 141                    -.@-             .-^    **      *.c  e           *|   to
5.. gge         So, S oi        ag. o-. sa lot
oe.et*0. 683                     c...e gem       c.e.o IsP  *p. esese ge
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Proiect rnlementation Unit Structure
I  Dlctlor'        ICo-odialoc
llHd lload            lfeed              lioed                  lload
P101 Ollilco  :    Co(3lFuc*ilc             Pvocuuemenl           Fin.   Adma.            IDUS              In* Meleulel
IDA IV                 o  IS)        Se* Poee Oil III       AGOomalme4 III                 I
IAOEM. III       "6"S. 1,* 1           Publimht io aI
IDA V                               f"lzoof 11   lat ales 011 III  1 iei 011 III                      Plelle.    11)
ADD Of         C1 Isavel. (II       As. Paeo Oll III       Come. *ev. 4O21
Seow. lot        loiiabof Sd. 131        l-eeliag to)
PAPUCA           C/ wooite. il S*9lo  Sup. (III               Clck  (4)
.tiv fe 4121       Oulge-se  ilw                    Ii
OShee            Dl kern 42)       ^^As Dist 01i. 11)       SI Ses#1 IC)
as QlSuevvsv (II   Wheos  steel (61
tesert                                                      Me. '   lvei I{)
Did  1.4)
..'



S4    .ANNEX4
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PROJECT 1991192 EDUCATION SECrOR ElgENDrtURt
...................... .
1969/90    *-1990/91--   1991/92
Actual .u g:t  Actat  Uudget
...............................................................
Local ty- control ted
Expenditure             19,163  26M9AY  24,96   4'8,309
..........~ *.... ........ .....    *.~........ ............. ..
Primuy duca tlon         S,721    9.22?   6,9    20,079
secondary eduectf.n      3,157   4,515    4.037    5,127
Teacher tr.inirq         2,675   3,021    2,ff9    3, 75
Tech. & ceafrelol *d.   1.740   2,080    1,682    2,550
Nighee .ducatfon         3.413   5.3s3    5,434  lO,100
Ocher                    2,477   2,791    3,JJ3    6,719
Oonor Ofantsn               2,726    1,291    9,165   22,492
..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ...  ...  ...  ...
Prfiry educatfon         2.262    1,067   5,488  12,213
4comidery edicatfon         0        0        0        0
Teacher traInfin            0        0        0    1.105
Tech.- S.   me_ fat ed.     0        0        0      2?7
Nigher  acatfon            44/     224   3,677   S,19?
Other                        0       0        0        0
Total Central Cove rmnt
Expenditure             21,909  28,278  34,153   70,801
...........              ..... . ........ ..... ............. 8. *-
Prfmry education         8,003   10,294   12,471   32,2
Scondary educatfon       3,157   4,515    4,037   5,127
Teacher training         2,67    3,021    2,969   .S,530
Tech. & crciat ad.   1,740   2,080    1,642   2,635
HNgher  lodcatfon        3,57   5,577   9,111   18,297
Other                    2.477   2,791    3,.3    6,719
...............................................................
Scurce: Statfstast Appndfx Tbte FE.4 wd  n6.5



Page I of I
EWUDUIC OF UGANDA
CENTRAL Go                       XPENDRE
............................                 .......................
1ff 1/2  1923  1993/94S
MW"o        --ssOI-or   §..".""t   PFn         n
ks it  Sadst    Otnn   Proga    Proj.   Proj.
aauw  ad limb                   9.1     12.0    12.2    19.8    20.0    21.3
7.      3 .1     8.1      9.3      10.7    12.5
1.6     39       4.0     10.4      9.3      6.8
Toutl bpsndtwo                 13.9    15.3    16.4    22.4    21.2    22.0
.......... ....................... ..... 0.... ... . . .... ......  .... .... ....    ...... ........
Lwtty-mtettedl             10.5    10.6    11.5    14.7r    1.8    14.6
Cou lfdtad otm        0.?      0.9      1.6      2.4      2.4      2.0
NlnIstrfae    '         9.6      9.7     9.9    12.3       11.4    12.6
Projet Aid        *        3.4       4.7     4.9      7.7      7.3      7.4
Df feft (mmit. bmle)            4.5      3.3     4.2      2.6       1.1      0.7
............         .    .... ... . ....  .................. ...  ...... ...................
awe In aras                -0.7    .0.6    .0.2    -1.2    -0.7    -0.6
Sdfeft (toak baE)               5.5      3.9     4.4      3.8      1.9       1.3
.........               . .. ..     .             S..               ..
_n _ruef tms:
Total _pdlatre, ast.   13.2    14.3    14.8    19.9            16.T    20.0
Cor. Pwd servim
Total .fd (rant  ad         7.6      8.6      9.0    18.1    18.3    18.3
loa  diduaammnt)
(ratios, in pe camt)
Rtomw/Ttt apwditwe   54.3    53.1    49.6    41.6    50.5    56.6
AI*Total a,pasdltur.        54.9    sr.8    59.6    81.1    86.3    0.2
.....................................................
Gomm: sgatt.tIct A.l Iadx Tabte P6.2..



56                         ANNEX
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEAHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT WHTE PAPER ON THE REPORT OF
THE EDUCATION POLICY REVIEW COM1MON
1.    The stances taken by the draft Govorrnent White PEaer on Inlilementation of the
RgWopedations of the Report of the Education          w Commission on major issues are
as fbllows:
Concerning access, the objective is to achieve Universal Primary Education not later than
the year 2001/02. Local district and urban authorities will continue to be responsible for
provision of physical facilities, and local communities will be mobilized to provide
necessary labor and materials.l/ In order to relieve household financial constraints to
enrollment, tuition at the primary level would be progressively abolished, one grade at a
time, beginning in 1992/93 and to be completed by 1999/2000. School attendance would
be compulsory for those grades for which fees have been abolished.
The agalitv of instruction would be improved by expanding the supply of textbooks and
other instructional materials, increasing teachers' salaries so that teachers ean devote full
time to the teaching job, and strengthening both pre-service and in-service teacher training
(mcluding training the large number of untrained teachers). The National Curriculum
Development Center and the Uganda National Examinations Board will be provided with
adequate facilities, and otherwise strengthened.
In order to address gender disprities, increased training of females as teachers and
administrators will be undertaken, adequate facilities for girls will be provided in post-
primary institutions, and either the Head or Deputy Head of a co-educational school
should be a woman. In addition, the abolition of primary tuition mentioned above is
expected to especially facilitate girls' enrollment.
The relationship between schooling and the world of work will be strengthened by
yoationalizagion throughout the primary and secondary cycles. The primary curriculum
will be revised to include agriculture and other pre-vocational skills, with a view toward
enabling individuals to make a living. All secondary schools would eventually become
Comprehensive Secondary Schools, offering both academic and vocational subjects.
J/ Unde t DAassised Pn,grn to A11eviate Povety and the Social Cos of Adjument (PAPSCA) and the IDA-
astd Norm Ugand Reconslrution Project (NURP), the Govemnmt s prnviding key stucual clemmnt, much as
Iav cad gdvanized iron sheets, to communities on a gmat basis.



57                          ANNEX ffi
Page 2 of 3
Concerning lnguang   policy, Kiswahii, which presently is offered as an elective at some
secondary schools but is not part of the primary curriculum, would be added as a
compulsory subject throughout the primary and secondary cycles, to be given equal
emphasis with English and mathematics. 2/
The finncing strategy of the White Paper is to increase Central Government budgetary
funding for the education sector; shift the distribution of Government expenditure
relatively toward primary, away from secondary and tertiary; and shift the distribution of
parental/beneficiary expenditure relatively away from primary, toward secondary and
tertiary.
2.    IDA welcomes and endorses most of the policies announced in the White Paper. In
particular, IDA endorses the shifts mentioned above in the distribution of Government and
parental/beneficiary expenditure; this is consistent with Bank views as set out, for example, in the
Policy Paper on Primary Education. The initiatives to improve quality through improved teacher
training and compensation, and to address gender dispari'des, are also appropriate and welcome.
3.    However, the IMA staff have concerns about some of the White Paper proposals regarding
"vocationalization". At the primary level, the White Paper recommends that occupational training
leading to employment should be a part of the curriculum. While IMA endorses the need to relate
primary curriculum to the surrounding environment, especially in the teaching of science,
mathematics and social studies, IDA does not endorse costly occupational training to children who
are unlikely to be of age for gainful employment nor fully equipped for the transition to work at
the end of the primary cycle.
4.    At the secondary level, studies of 'diversified' or 'comprehensive" curricula in Tanzania,
Kenya, and other countries have found that such vocationalized curricula are more expensive than
general secondary education, and that graduates of such programs usually did not obtain
employment in fields in which they were trained, and did not receive economic benefits from their
more cost schooling. In other words, such programs are ineffective from the cost-benefit
perspective. The trend in developing countries has therefore been toward structural separation of
training from, general education.
5.    The Bank's Policy Paper on Vocational and Technial Education and Training (VEI)
emphasizes that providing young people with literacy, numeracy, and problem-solving skills, so
that they are trainable, is the best contribution that schools can make to the productivity and
flexibility of the work force, and that practical skills are most effectively acquired in workplaces,
or in post-general education, non-workplace training facilities, which are 'demand driven".
6.    The financing chapter of the White Paper reflected an expectation that the Government
revenue performance would increase to "16-20% of GDP in the near future." Unfortunately,
Government revenues have failed to increase as rapidly as hoped earlier. In the Policy
Framework Paper for 1992/93 - 1994/95, Government revenue is shown as 7.3% of GDP in
1992/93, 9.8% of GDP in 1993/94, and 11.6% of GDP in 1994/95. In this context, the Bank
ai Unlike in Tanui ad pat of Kenya, KisAa  is rot e naive langupe in Uganda. Ther m five major indigen
languages in Uganda, none of which is spoken by more than  % of the population. English is the lanage used by
Govemment, medium-to-large scale bualneses, and the professions.



58                            ANM
Pae 3 of3
staff beieve dt dhe White Psa  does not adoeay recop_  dtht It midple objocdtv  -
access, qualhy, vocy doalbon, and In11odon of KlUwai a a compusory  bject
througout the Cycle - may be compivo with eac otbh. Th usaoc roure prposed to be
realocated away from the eti  curriuldum, towd the vcadoaIzadon and KIwahUi
niidadves, nclude wt only finc, but dso sden' la     tlme and tahe' prpaton
dme.
7.    in sum, among the objecdvts set out In the White Pap  the Bak stff beieve that
acco  (ncnudISg female eollment), and Imving the qality of Istcion In the aor suJbe
of the existi  curriculum, ae the ones which doservo hihest prirt. The propoed Discatlom
Reconstriona and Devdopment project k  been d4ged with  oso p_er ve In min.



Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AN TACHE DEVLPMENT PROIFr
THE FIVE YEAR INVE SM T PROGRAM 1992/93 - 1996/97
1.    The Ministry of Education's Five Year Investment Program (YP, June 1991) represes
a step toward operatlonalizing tie recommendatons of the EPRC and the draft White Pape. The
Ilvestment Program is based upon a series of pre-investment studies (16) commissioned under
,IDA IV to develop specific strategies and to estmate the cost of implementig proJects emana
from implemewntg major White Paper policy recommendations. One of the studies involved
deveopment of an education sector planning model to project student earolment, teacer,
facilities, textbooks and other resources required each year through the year 2000.1/
2.    lhe Government's educi  d o             JlJye as statd in the Investm   Progm
include: (a) Increasing access and equity; (b) enhancing quality, efficiency and relevance: (c)
building institionai capacity; and (d) reforming finance and financial management. The Plan
consists of two volumes. Volume I provides a narrative, consistent with the White Paper, on the
setor issues and policies. Volume II presents 39 project profiles, which set our project concepts
and prelimbiary cost estiates (see attached list). Several of the project concepts are based on
pr-investment studies carried out under the IMA IV Education project.
3. The total cost of the FYIP is $612 million, equivalent to 25% of Uganda's 1991/92 GDP.
this program is eremely ambitious and has subsequendy been scaled down and firther
prioritized. The package of 'top' ndroitie identified by the Ministry of Education amounts to
$310 million. The FYEP was discussed at a local donor meeting in Kampala, hosted by the World
Bank, In July 1991.2I On the basis of preliminary indications by donors, it appears that it will
be possible to mobilize financing for most of the top priority investments.
4.            o            would be developed at all levels of the system. Headteaces
would receiv tining in management and supervision, the inspectoratn and DEOs would be
upgraded and the MOES's Education Planning and Project Implementation Units would be
strengthened substantially to allow design and implementation of elements of the Program.
S.    Financial             would be strengthened through the introduction of a
comprehensive auditing system to reduce leakage, increase the integrity and accountabiity at all
levels. Government would implement mechanisms of allocating finances to various sub-sectors of
the education system in accordance with appropriate norms; and would ensure that its support and
supplementation of community effrts Is balanced and rationalized according to criteria designed
to maximize access and equity for all relevant populations.
XI Copie of *A Five-Yesr _v at Pmtoga  adDet ectma"", seor abdin_, u  aimis Modal a
poft pijue on an   in APR film T. p-iu_edme     covau ouac amm as fii4  d eoffiie, vil
cwW. auabhmm miay, shool ltion planing, optmum kafwAn Wev, cicaalu mfonu, lol textbok
pdng aNd publihing capa, _mion efonn, nimng, tach. duca, aon ahe.
Z2 A lst of pnuln*wy epaio_  of hiamt by UNDP, dtsh Cocil, ODA, EEC. UNESCO, LWF, US Pac
CoaP. USAID, Actio Aid, CODE, CIDA, WFP, UNICEF, and Xt ADB is availal In d iXc of tho Doo
nietg whih we mUbb in AR fDe.



60                                     ANNEX7
Page 2 of 2
PROJECrS IN THE FIVE YEAR INVESTMENT PROGRAM (U.S.$ '000')
CODE                        PROJECT NAME                           PHA5E I  PEASE 2  PEASE 3
_._I 1990-92   1993-96  1996 * I
111  Primary School Expansion                                       22,000   22,000   22.000        66,000
112  Secondary Schools Laboratories, Workshops, Libraries           15,000   22,000   22.000        S9.000
113  Secondary School Expansion                                     12,000   12,000          0      24,000
114  Non-formal Education                                                 0    8,030   7t800        15,830
121  Program for Orphans                                               250    4,000    9,550        13,800
122  Service to Handicapped, Gifted & Fesale Students                8.000       400      700        9.100
123  Interactive Radio Learning - Classroom                          1,791         0         0        1,791
124  Interactive Radio Learning - Teachers                             689         0         0          889
12S  Interactive Radio Learning - Marginalized Population            1,101         0         0       1o101
126  Interactive Radio Learning - Aids Education                       316         0         0          316
211  Curriculum Reform                                               1,626         0         0        1.626
212  Strengthening NCDC                                              1,300         0         0        1,300
213  Strengthening STEPU                                             4,184         0         0        4.184
221  Book Provision Capacity                                        12,000   12,000   17,000         41,000
222  Book Production Capacity                                        4,712    4,680          0        9,392
231  Continuous Assessment       '                                   2,000         0         0        2,000
232  Zxamination Reform                                              5,000    4,100          0        9,100
241  Condition of Service                                            32.000   32,000         0       64,000
251  Pro-Service Training                                            22,800   27,223   17,520        67,543
252  Reducing Un-trained Teachers                                    25,764   10,900    5,436        42,100
253  Support for Practicing Teachers                                 16.540    9,000    5,700        31.240
261  Vocational Education Primary Schools                            17.085        0         0       17.085
262  Vocational Education Secondary Schools                          13.630        0         0       13,630
263  Science Education in Secondary Schools                         28.500   15,600          0       44.100
271  Technical Education                                              1,000        0         0        1.000
272  Rehabilitation of Technical Schools                             8.400    9,400    4,400         22,200
273  Rehabilitation of Colloges & Polytechnic*                       8,800    9.815    3,400         22,015
311  EPDW                                                            4,400         0         0        4,400
312  School Happing                                                  1,000         0         0        1,000
321  Comprehensive Mnagement Audit                                      280        0         0          280
322  Manaemwent Training - Heads of institutions                     2,800         0         0        2,800
323  Intermediate-Staff Level Training                               2.500         0         0        2,500
324  Training of Senior Managers                                        400        0         0          400
325  Educational Management Training Centre                               0    2,300         0        2.300
326  Degree Programmes in Zducation Management                            0    2.000         0        2,000
421  Support for Basic Education                                     2,500         0         0        2,500
422  Instructional Materials - Tertiary                              7,000         0         0        7,000
423  National Finance Plan                                              280        0         0          280
424  Comprehensive Accounting System                                  1,600        0         0        1,600
I           TOTAL  EXPENDITURE tU.S.S '0001                   239,448  207,448  115,506       612,402
Source t Republic of Uganda. Projets in Five Year Investmont Programes



ANNEX 8
T.^"!  61                  P    I age 1of 6
TSUUAUS m'NuteMunSy OP FIAtd  AND ErMONOIC
TM.,ON619 E   NIMoe. imn ICeAAV*L 'aM4 S 23W.16         PLANNING
0bm e                                              P.Le S lO UI  ,  p Oo BOX 6147,
in     wes 961*61M4o. an  _.A,,...   T                           KA.A   UGANDA.
16 April 1993
Mb. Edward&.V.1 Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
WASHINGTON
Dear Mr. Jaycox
RE: 
The purpose of this letter is to describe the education sector policies that we plan to follow
during the implementation of the proposed Education Reconstruction and Development Project
(IDA V). Specific actions are included in the attached Action Plan.
cmmDevlgmt S='
In recent years, the Government of Uganda has been implementing-a program of stabilization,
economic recovery, and structural adjustment. Our most recent statements nf development
strategy are in the Way Forward I and Way Forward Il (1992), dealing with macroeconomic and
sectoral strategies respectively; and the Policy Framework Paper for 1992/93 - 1994/95
(November 1992), which has already been circulated to the World Banlk's Board. As indicated
in these statements, the role of public institutions will be to establish the infrastructure and
policy environment conducive to private sector development. The ongoing process of
liberalization, defined as "moving toward policies which work through markets, will be
continued. We intend to further reduce bank financing of the Government budget deficit, in
order to reduce inflation. Our public expenditure strategy is to concentrate expenditure on those
activities in which Government must play a leading funding role, and ensure that expenditures
within priority sectors are cost-effective.
Additionally, in October 1992 the Decentralization program was launched by the President of
Uganda. As part of this program, control over field personnel will be shifted from Central
Government ministries to the local authority.



62                       ANNEX 8
Page. 2 of 6
Beginning with the 1993/94 financial year, district votes will be created in the national budget
initially for thten (13) districts so that recurrent expenditure for field-based services wiU be
sent to the District direcdy, with the Disttict Executive Secretary becoming the District
Accounting Officer. Ministry Headquarters will be streamlined to a core of policy make,
plannes, and inspectors.
Like most other sectors, Uganda's education system suffered substantally between 1971 - 1985.
Following the resoration of peace in 1986, the Government initiated tho process of reforming
and reconstrctf the education system by establishing an Educadon Policy Review Commission
in 1987. Tho Commission submitted its Report in 1989. A short statement on Education Policy
has been included in The Way Forward IT ectoral Stratbg  (1992). In addition, a detailed
Government White PMape  n Imylementation of the Recmmendations of the Reprt of th
ducaton Poliy Review Commission- has been drafted and presently is under discussion within
the country, before eventual adoption. The principal objcdves and policies which we intend
to pursue in the education sector are described below.
We wish to increase the population's accs to education. In particular, at the primary level,
the objecdve Is to achieve Universal Primary Education by the year 2003. Local district and
urban authorities will continue to. be responsible for provision of physical facilities, and local
communites will be mobilized to provide necessary labour and locally-available mateals. The
'ovenmment ix prnvtifing key structurl element:, such 2c truccos and galiad ifomn shcet, Iv
local communities, on a grnt basis. We have been increasing Central Government budgeta
funding for pdmary education, and this trend wil continue, enabling primary tuition fees
eventually to be reduced, thereby relieving the household financial constaint to enrollment
especially for low Income families. We place very high priority on improving the gualizf of
Instruction. This will be accomplished by expanding the supply of textbooks and other
instructional matrials, increasing teachers' salaries so that teachers can devote full dme to the
teaching job, and strengthening both pre-service and ln-servce teaching training including
training the large number of untrained teachers). Finally, we wish to stngthen the relationship
between education and the job environment through vocational programs.
We intend to pursue these objectives by reforming the pattem of resource mobilization and
resource allocato in fte sector, and through appropriate institutional reform and strengthening.
At the present time, education subsidies (differences betWeen the price charged for the service,
and the cost of producing the service) are greatest at the university level, relatively less for
secondary education and primary teacher training, and least at the primary level. This is
inequitable, sic post-primary students, especially at the university level, tend to come mainly
from retively better-off households. At the primary level, the burden of fees leads to school
dropout, particuay among girls from poor households who are sometimes pulled ut of school
where the parents cannot afford fees for all the children. At Ros-MMW levels, t  pie
chare for eduation             he brnn!hL    antialX lo1   to the  _t of producing
M=  In other words, untargetted across-the-board subsidization will be substandally reduoed.



63                  ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
Concessional financing (gants or concessional loans) will be provided to poor but meritious
students to enable them to enroll at these levels of the system. Boarding subsidies at the
secondary level have already been discondnued, and boarding subsidies at the university level
will be progressively phased out. The increased mobilization of resources from students and
their  rts atotpma  leves will allow a &rter share of Centll 2 rmentSM         r
tohi divrd to ermAa oruediun, which is cridcally Important because of its economic and
social benefits.
Trained teachers who can devote adequate time to their teaching responsibilities are an essential
element of the education process. During the past two years, the Minisry of Educadon and the
Ministry of Public Service, with the assistance of the Establishment and Staffing Control System
Project, have bden engaged in an effort to accurately determine the number of trained and
untrained teachers actually performing teaching duties, and to ensure that the teachers' payroll
is restricted to such persons. A census of the Teaching Service was carried out in 1991.
However, for some districts in the North and Northeast, it was necessary to rely on estimates
due to insecurity in some areas. During the time since the Census was conducted, there have
also been staffing changes such as recruitment, transfers, and retirements. Following the
Census, the number of persons on the Teaching Service payroll has been reduced from more
than 120,000, to about 114,900 at the present time, of whom about 92,500 are primary teachers.
These same numbers will be the basis for the Budget estimate for the Teaching Service payroll
for the 1993/94 financial year.
On the basis of questionnaire fonns filled out by teachers, a computerized Database on teachers
has been established. During the period May 1993 through December 1993, officials will make
field visits to schools, assisted by local leaders, to audit and eliminate any discrepancies,
including physical count of the teachers and school facilities. This will be done on a District
by District basis, four districts per month. Following the audit and verification exercise, a
District Establihment Register, in which each post has a unique post. control number, will be
established in each district. The Teaching Service Staff Register;- which is required by the
Education Act, has recently been computenzed, including attaching a unique staff number to
each name in the register.
Beginning with the 1994/95 financial year, ceilings will be established for each financial year
for the number of primary toaho.w whese 3&Ljw ;ll bc IGnumetl lumv tiie Central uovemment
budget. In the determination of these ceilings, the following factors will be taken into acccunt:
(a) Govemmr t's monetary and fisral program which, as mentioned earlier, aims at reducing
inflation by lowering the budget deficit; (b) the priority to be given to upgrading untrained
teachers; (c) the objective of increasing teachers' remunefation; and (d) the long-term objective
of achieving Universal Primary Education. During the next few yean, priority will be devoted
to.upgrading of tainable unirainod toaohers, and to aehieVing dte MihuJUIL Livuig Wage.
Responsibility for hirng, promotion, and dismissal of primary school teachers in U7 and U8
salary scal  will rest with the District Teaching Service Committee. The recruitment and
discipline of primary teachers in U6 salary scale and above and all the teachers in the Teaching
Service is te responsibility of the Teaching Service Commission. Beginning with the 1993/94
financial year, funds for the primay taohor payroll will be trasfered &ilwtly furin the
Trasuy to the District Executive Secretary.



ANNEX 8
*                     64                      Page 4 of 6
In order to improve teaching quality, the Govemment plans to reorient teacher training from its
current emphasis largely on pre-service training, to a more balanced thre-pronged program of
pre-service training, upgrading of unqualified teachers, and in-service taining. The Primary
Teachers Colleges to be financed under the Project will operate within a policy framework which
provides appropriate institutional autonomy and accountability. Responsibility for hiring,
promotion, and dismissal of Primary Teachers Colleges staff will rest with the Teaching Service
Comsion. As regards financial contribution by students in the Primary Teachers Colleges
towards feeding costs and other expenses, the matter is being nationally examined, but the policy
of Prmary Teachers Colleges boarding will take into account the policy for boarding at post-
secondary institutions generally. All institutions are to embark on income generating activities
to geneate revenuie to support the teachers, students and other staff members. This would
support effofts to pay a Living Wage to teachers.
Consistent with the decisions which have been taken on Decentrlization, the role of the Ministry
of Education and Sports will be to perform or sponsor strategic fimctions, such as: determining
core curricula; examinations; policy analysis and formulation; planning and the surveillance of
trends in inputs, outcomes, and efficiency; inspection; and publication of timely reports on the
status of education; and redrafting legislation to implement policies. The National Curriculum
Development Centre and the Uganda National Examinations Board will be provided with
adequite facilities, and otherwise strengthened to work closely with the Inspectorate in the
related areas of curriculum and examination development and professional support.
We recognise that, in the education secvor as in other sectors, there is a need for improved
budgeting, accounting, and auditing. The Economic and Financial Management (EFM) Project
being financed by IDA, includes components for training and computerization in Budget Reform;
accounting, and auditing. While all ministries will be eligible to benefit from the accounting and
auditing components, the Budget Reform component is targdted at five line ministries, one of
which is the Ministry of Education, in addition to the Budget Department in the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Sports has already
begun to revise personnel records and accounting systems under a PPF for the proposed project.
As will be supported under the Project, we are aiming at encouraging private sector development
in the production and distribution of textbooks and other instructional materials, with the role
of the public sector to be policy oriented (setting policies, formulating guidelines and monitoring
standards), and to facilitate a working market in instructional materials.
We are looldng forward continued collaboration with IDA, in the context of the fifth Education
Project, toward the achievement of these objectives.
Yours sincerely,
I,      .  .  .
J.S. Mayanja-Nkap
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING



65                     IEX 8
Page 5 of 6
UGANDA
Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
Action Plan
The activities associated with the Primary Education and Teacher Development project include
procurement, policy measures, and institutional measures. Key policy and institutional measures are
listed below, while procurement activities are treated elsewhere.
Refonning the PattenM of Resource Mobilization and
Resource Allocation
Consult with IDA concerning the budget for the education sector, for the  February/March each
following fiscal year, with the objective of progressively increasing    year.
Central Government expenditure in primary education as a percentage of
total Central Govemment expendition on education, and as a percentage
of Gross Domestic Product.
Analyze the relationship between enrollment, income, and other relevant  To be discussed.
variables, on 4he basis of the 1992 Integated Survey, and dmw out policy
implications of the findings. (To be financed by SDA Study Fund.)
Shift boartding costs (meals, accommodation, and related expenses) of    Schedule to be determined
University students from Government budget onto beneficiaries, as soon as the  following approval of
White Paper is approved. Establish student loan scheme to enable         White Paper.
needy students to finance such expenses.                                                          l
Teaching Service Establishment and Payroll
Computerize the Teaching Seriice Staff Register, including attaching a unique  Implemented April 1993
staff number to each name in the register.
Carry out an audit and verification of the teachers' payroll, based on field visits    May - December 1993
with the assistance of local leaders, and including physical count of school
facilities and teachers.
Establish a Dintrict Establishment Register, in which each post has a unique post   December 1993
control number, in each district.
Beginning with the 1993/94 financial year, funds for the primary teacher  Beginning July 1993.
payroll wil be tansferred direcldy from the Treasuy to the District
Executive Secretary.
Beginning with the 1994/95 financial year, ceilings will be established, on the  Ceilings to be established
basis of factors set out in the LSP, for each financial year for the number of  April of each year,
prary teachers whose salanes will be financed from the Central Government  beginning April 1994.
budget.



66                   ANNEX8
Page 6 of 6
Trinina of limary Teaehers
Establish Tewher Development Maaement System (IDMS) Unit in the         September 30, 1993
Ministry of Education, and District-level TDMS Coordinain Committees.
Tne criteria for selection of core PTCs include: (a) centrality of location to a
potential network of pimaty schools, (b) access to essential infratructure, (c)
existing PTC physidcal condition,(d) possibility of freeing, with community
consultation, PTCs facilities to their original function as prmay or seondary
schools, and (e) potential contribution of primary education to development.
Using these criteda, the following core FMC sites have so far been sdected by
the Govemment: Loro (Apac); Nakaseke (Luwero); Bulem (Hoima); and
(Mpigi). Necesary data, including enrollment, number of tauined and untraned
teachers, and the location of pfimary schools in these Disticts shall be provided
upon IDA request.
For tho selection of additional core PTCs, guidelines and procedures, includig  December 31, 1993
the above crtria, wvi be preWed which will enable al PTCs in the IDA-
assisted TDMS Districts to be considered for inclusion in tho TDMS program
The selection among existing PTCs, as well as possible new PTC sites, will be
undertaken by the District-level TDMS Coordinating Committee in condtation
with the MOES.
The TDMS Unit, MOES would prepar prototype training programs for the first   J    30, 1994
year for all in-svice, upgrading pdimy school teachers, headeachers, and
local management staff, e.g., DEOs, inspectors, and PTA and Ma_ment
Committee Heads.
Enable FTC Boards of Governors to change fees, to be retained under control of   To be discussed
the institution, on the condition that FTC accounts be submitted to an annual
extemnal audit.
Cuniicul   and Emhnation
Submit for IDA review and comment a revised primary curriculum which    December 31, 1994
protects instmuctional time for the core subjects.
Submit for IDA review a deailed plan for improving the examination pres  December 31, 1994
including a program for training for examination staff.
Submit for IDA review a Terms of Reference for a National At            Deember 31, 1994
of Educational Performance.
Submit for IDA ev.iew a teacher traing module on continuous             December 31, 1994
assesmQent.
Pvate Sector Dwqn
Submit for IDA review a Book Sector stategy for                         September 30, 1993
developing a maket in school isuctional mateals.



67
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
USAID Assstance Program:
Support to Ugandan Primary Education Reform (SUPR)
1.    The uldmate goals of the SUPER program are to: improve students mastery of literacy,
numeracy, and other basic skills: improve school administration, management, and accountability;
and reduce inequities in persistence among different groups of children. These goals will be
pursued through a combination of nonproject and project assistance.
ftnpr t Assistance (83 millio)
2.    These funds will be disbursed in six tranches over a period of eight years, provided that
the Government meets specific conditions (see matrix attached) related to three major policy
areas: teachers' compensation; facilitation of local-level decisionmaking for improving the quality
ad equity of primary education; and providing a sustainable supply of instructional materials
needed for effective teaching.
tieet AsssEne  2  mlin
3.    T;hese finds will assist the Ministry of Education and Sports to establish the Teacber
Development and Management System (IDMS) in 10 selected districts. The USAID assistance
has been developed in full cognizance of the World Bank's proposed Fifth Education project.
While the Bank rehabilitates and constructs Primary Teacher Colleges and primary schools,
USAID will finance technical assistance, teaching aids, equipment, and materials for the
parcipating PTrs and schools. The following activities will be supported by USAID:
Rvsion gf the _T  CGade _m  curriculum, so that it is modular in structure,
facilitating in-service as well as pre-service training.
Stafrng and Establishment for Reformed PlCs. The TDMS Coordinator wil assist a
committee, appointed by the Commissioner of Education, to produce a complete
description of staffing and an oudine of the desired program of activities for the PTC.
Tbe MOES will take the actions necessary to create the needed establishment of posts for
reformed PTCs, and wil ensure that a process is put in place to select and post new staff.
In eacb participating district, the network of coordinating schools and associated outreach
schools will be identified. This process will reflect the experience of a pilot effort in
Bushenyl District.
Tbhree toes of training activities for teachers: reformed pre-service training; in-servce
upgrding for selected untrained teachers; and in-service refresher courses for all teachers.



68
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 4
Training of tutors (teacher educators). The Diploma in Teacber Education (DTE)
curriculum will be revised to reflect the TDMS philosophy of integration and classroom-
based training at the primary level. In order to complement the existing training of
teacher educators at the Institute of Teacher Education, Kyambogo (ITEK, near Kampala
in central Uganda), Tutor Training Wings will be established at two PTCs being
rehabilitated with IDA financing, one in Bushenyi District in western Uganda, and one in
Gulu district in northern Uganda.
Headteacber trainine will be provided through both in-service and pro-service programs.
4.    Implementation of the SUPER Project. An integrated management structure which
involves regular joint participation? y the MOES, the World Bank, and USAID will be essential.
The Ministry has already created a TDMS section, headed by the TDMS National Coordinator,
within the Project Implementation Unit. Tbree SUPER Project technical advisors will be
accommodated in this section: the TDMS Advisor/Project Manager; the Teachers' Curriculum
Development Specialist; and the Management Training Advisor. The TDMS Coordinating
Committee will also serve as the SUPER Project Steering Committee.
5.    USAID will procure a qualified contractor to implement the project. Since the project
will be supporting institutional development work in ten districts throughout the country, a fairly
large team will be employed. Except for the core staff assigned to the TDMS section of the PIU,
staff will be assigned to designated PTCs, or to district administration centers. The Contractor
will be encouraged to give preference to recruiting local consultants and specialists. The
Contractor shall develop a salary scale f3r local employees that reflects remuneration sufficient to
retain qualified local staff. Tbe Contractor shall submit bi-annual project progress reports in a
format acceptable to USAID.
6.    An Activity Implementation Plan is attached.



69 
Page 3 of 4
1111l 118]11             it,
]'      ilt }§ |tjIj   14         11|X'
g  8  1 3  1Ii'}    1§l j  t8
1~ iJ I..     it  a i   li1 1
X  ii III      gI  }||1I lidit



ACTIVITY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN  PROJECT SUPER
__                                                    S-                                            -    ,.      .tY5 _  
Consiudon (IDA 4 & 5)
A. PTC-1 (4)
PTC-11 (3)   ** .....*
PTC-M (3) * .... ... 
B. Schoob-l '
Sdcobs-ll                                         ._
Z. PTC hIst Development
Di (Bushenyl                           z          .
D2 (Gulu) 
D3 and D4                                        -z- -z--
D5-D7                                               zzz; 
08- 010                                                                         a-zn 
3. DitdIct Ngwork Dlopment
Di (Budhenyl)
02 (Guli)
D3 and D4
05- D7
De3-DtO                        mazmzz
4. Grade ll Curriulum                                  ..*
Syflabus & ModulZs
S. Grade VmCufflulm
Syllabus & Materis                          ruzz
ProgSa GrdeV V 
6. Manageet Trdnhg
A. Headtchr Tng Meias
B. Hedleacr Trakinng
S. Commufly Leade Traning
A. Sdcool-Comm basue
B. Gender. Hea bhuess
C. Block Gran  rown m                                                                             -
9. S"dy TouMs
.   10.   SPN t  's                   ---- '------_                                                      



71
ANNE 10
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
TDMS ORGANIZATION, SrAFF AND FUNCTIONS
ishb anex along with its accompanying tables provides a description of the
Organization proposed for the Teacher Developmet and Management System (TDMS). The
organization has three levels: national, district - with the core PTCs, and the local -
coord§inaing schools and their associated outreach schools. At each level there is an TDMS
structure whose functions reflect the expanded and ingrated support role wbich is at the core
of the TDMS concept. Core PTCs become defacto TDMS Colleges with responsibility for
ddivering the fidl range of inputs needed for strong, quality primary education.
The changes in the existing organizations which will be necessary to imple-
ment TDMS include enabling legislation, institutional charters and staffing establishments for
most of the affected isitutions. Laying the groundwork for these dcanges will be an
important part of the activities under the PPF prior to implementation of IDA V. Selection of
key personnel for the national level structure will provide the staff necessary for the longer
process of refining plans for district and local level implementation.
I. NATIONAL LEVEL TDMS ORGANIZATION
1. TDMS Mangment Commi
Membership: Permanent Secretary of Education, the two Commissioners of Educa-
ton, the TE and PE officers from both Admistion and the Inspec-
rate, and the National TDMS Coordinator. (Total of 8 people)
Functions:   Executive policy making body. Sets major policies for implementation
of TDMS, approves major personnel appoitms, resolves problems,
assigns responsibility for tasks to PIU or other parts of MOE as appro-
priate.
Schedule:    Meets as needed. Probably weeldy during start-up phase of TDMS.
2. TDMS Advisoy Committee
Purpose:    A body which allows relevant agencies and organizations to have input
into the TDMS process. The committee is advisory to the Permanent
Secretary of Education.



72
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 8
Membership: The two Commissioners of Education, Representatives from ITr ,
NCDC, Association of PTC Principals, Association of NTC Directors,
Planning Unit/Education, Teacher Service Commission, Ministry of
Local Government. National Coordinator serves a chairperson of the
committee.
Functions:   Serves as forum for informing about goals and implemeaion of
TDMS. Provides vehicle for input from various concerned bodies
whose functions are influenced by TDMS. Generates support and
assistance for TDMS as appropriate.
3. PIU - TDMS Unit
Purpose:    The unit responsible for implementing the TDMS program at national
level and directing and supporting implementation at the district and
local levels.
Membership: Headed by the National TDMS Coordinator. lbe coordinator reports to
the Management Committee for guidance on policy and major decisions
and has access to the PS/MOES through the head of the PIU for more
regular or urgent decisions. TDMS PIU unit is staffed by TDMS staff
or by drawing upon staff from fimctional sections of the PIU for servic-
es in such areas as construction, procurement, finance and textbook
distribution. Depending on extent of services needed, fiuctional section
Staff may be assigned full or part time to TDMS tasks. (9 officers in-
dluding the national coordinator - plus associated staff from the func-
tional sections of P11)
3 Nati           nat
The Natioral Coordinator is the key person whose abilities will determine the
succes or failure of the entire TDMS strategy. Tbis role must provide the leadership, the
initiathve, the motivational inspiration, and above all the managerial ability for the TDMS
enterprise. It is critical that this post be filled by someone of excepdonal capability. The
person need not be an educator, although if WI1 the other abilities can be found in an experi-
enced educator that would be ideal. However, the search should seek out the leadership and
manageri capability above all else. Salary and allowances should be sufficient to attract
such a pero;n.
TDMS Unt  a) Cnrction - Oversee all aspects of conuction of Educa-
tional Service Colleges, coordinating and outach primary
schools.
b) Proremen - Responsible for all procurement as needed for
construction, instructional materials, vehiclesj training and
textbooks.



73
ANNEX lo
Page 3 of 8
c)  Financial Management - Responsible for all TDMS finances
and accounting, including setting up district-level procedures,
training staff and monitoring expenditures under TDMS.
d) Textbook Distribution- Oversees storage, transport and distri-
bution of textbooks and centrally purchased learning materials
to districts. Assists and monitors distribution within districts
through Education Service Colleges in TDMS districts and
through DEOs in non-TDMS districts.
e) Management Training & Structure - (1) Training Officer: De-
sign and implementation of the program for in-service training
of school heads & other local education officials, and training
the management trainers (Heads of Management Training
Departments) for the district core PTCs (ii) Establihments
Officer: Reviews and nominates personnel (to national coordi-
nator & head of PIU) for key positions at both national and
district level of TDMS, manages process of revising legisla-
tion, legal charters, and staff establishment schedules, and pay
and allowance structures as required by new TDMS stucture
at district and local levels. (Total of 2 officers).
t)  Pre- & In-Service Teacher Education - Organizes in-service
upgrading course (e.g. using MrTEP model), helps core PTCs
establish functional linkages between pre- and in-service pro-
grams, works with core PTCs to design in-service support
materials, procedures, and staff. Each officer will have re
sponsibility for 3 or 4 districts. (3 officers).
g) Curriculum and Instructional Materials - Supervises and assists
in training staff, creating methods, and curriculum and materi-
als development for TDMS. Finds and distributes Grade m
curriculum and materials, primary curriculum & teaching
syllabi and supporting materials, and outreach materials.
Trains staff at all levels to use in support of varioi. outreach
activities. (I officer).
h) TIMS Outreach Program - Works with core PTCs to design
and manage the new integrated outreach approach of TDMS,
Designs and does staff training for directors and senior staff at
core PTCs and helps with creating effective management
strategies for core PTCs and district outreach - including
scheduling procedures. Helps with Liaison with Agricutture,
Health and Local government as needed. (I officer).



74
ANNE3X 10
Page 4 of 8
i) oiltoring and Evaluation - Designs and carries out formative
evaluation of TDMS approach; disseminates results to col-
leagues in TDMS team and core PT; trains core PTCs staff
in monitoring; desigps & supervises required evaluation activi-
ties. (I officer)
11. DISTRICT LEVEL TDMS STRUCTURE
In the TDMS districts a centrally located, former PTC will be converted into an
core PTCs whose function is to provide a complete rage of inputs and support to primary
education in the district.
1. TDMSd ng
A district level coordinating committee should be esublished in each of the
TDMS districts. Tbis committee would coordinate implemenation at the district level witb
the PTC. It should consist of the DEO, relevant PTC officials, the zonal engineers and others
required for effective district level planning and Implementation.
2. Director. CorM PTC
ais is a new post which has been upgraded from the former post of Principal for
the pre-servic. PTCs and will require changes in the establishment. lbe director must have a
degree of autonomy In running the core PTCs with regard to both finances and decisions
affecting the support of primary educatiou in the distct. Tbe direcor is responsible for
nmaning the fill range of outreach and support functions of the core PTCs in addition to the
pre,service training component. The director requires substantially more managerIal and
communications capability than was demanded of a PTC principal. These positions are
critical to the success of TDMS and must be chosen with great care. Salary and benefits
should be commensurate with their responsibilities.
3. Cor PsCoule
Purpose:     This board replaces the former Board of Governors structure of
PTCs and has an advisory ratber than a supervisory role.
Membenhip: Its membership should be reflective of various groups in the dis-
trict, not just the local community. Included would be represen-
tatives of teachers organizations, PTAs, the RC, school head-
masters, and community leaders. Changes in the legal car of
the PTC will be needed to implement this new structre. (8-10
members).



75
ANNEX 10
Page S of 8
Functions:   The Board advises on policy and implementation, and has a
public relations functions to inform the dirict and its people
about the role of the core PTCs. It also serves as a forum for
voicing concerns about the functioning of TDMS in the district.
4. D
Integrating the inspectorate at the district level into the core FMls orpnization is
an important part of the concept of TDMS. By linking the inspectorate!s responsibility for
overseeing quality and proper functioning of schools at the dassrm level with the major
insttution charged with delivering u ase services, both functions can be strengthened. Current
thinking suggests that the District Inspector (DI) should be advisory to the Director of the
core PTCs, linked on the organizational chart by a dotted line to the Director. The DI would
be based at the core PTCs and would make use the various delivery mehanisms to carry out
the role of supervision of quaity.
logo=aE Dewould be located in the Department of In-service Teacher
ducatiDon, but would also report to the DI when crying out their supervisory and quality
monitoring functions. When engaged in professional development acdtvities they would be
responsible to the Head of the Il-service Teacher Education department of the core PTCs.
S. eut Direoa
Deputy Director for Rsdni P
This officer has responsibility for all activities which use the core PrCs faciides. The follow-
lg Heads of Departments report to this deputy:
a)     Priacipal of the Demonstration Prmary School (1)
b)     Head of Instructional Materials Development (1)
c)     Head of Pedagogy (1)
d)     Assisnt in charge of the pre-service timetable and scheduling and use of
core FICs facilities - including conferences, taining workshops, and
various educational activities for the surrounding community, such as
lIeracy dasses. (1)
Deputy Director for 
This officer is responsible for all outrea  and primary school support actidvies provided
through the core PrT. The following Heads of Departments report to this Deput:
a)     Head of In-Service Teacher Educaiion (both upgradig and contiuous in-
service) (I)
b)     Head of Management Training and Support (1)



76
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 8
c)     Head of Textbook and Materials Distribution (1)
d)     Asistant in charge of scheduling outreach activities including transporta-
tion and drivers. Assists Coordinating School Outreach Officers in
scheduling. (1)
6. Heads of Departments and Deaent Sta
The current structure envisions six Heads of Departments. including the Principal
of the Demonstration School. While each Head of Department reports to one Deputy
Director, they are Iended to work together closely on most program activities. For
nstance, to  who formerly were exclusively engaged in pre-service education will be
expected to spend sgnificant time (encouraged by appropriate allowance structures) on in-
serice education in the coordinating schools. Practice teaching will be organized and
supported by the outreach coordinator as part of the overall program of support for primary
otucation. The Director and both Deputy Directors are charged with responsibility for seeing
that aU departments cooperate.
a)     Principal of Demonsrattion School - Manages school and liaison with the
core PTC in support of both pre- and in-evice education programs. Tte
deonstration school may well serve as model coordinting school in
some settings. (1)
b)     Head of histructignal Materials Develonent and Production - Manages
Educational Resource Center, trains tutors and teachers in educational
materials production and supports workshops in coordinating schools.
May have additional staff such as a writing specialist for English or
vernacular languages, or an additonal trainer. (I)
c)     He  gf EdAor - Supervises the seven traditioral subject, or their
equivalent, heads: Foundations, Language, Maths, Science, Social Studies,
Home Economics, Arts & Craft. They will support both pre- and in-
service sruction in their subjects. Overall responsibility for the pre-
service training program. (i)
d)     H In-seric hegAation - Supervises program with three
components: the in-service upgrading program, all continuous in-service
support programs, and the supervision of curriculum and instruction in
schools (inspectorate function). Has nine subordinate staff members (some
of whom are the assistant inspectors assigned to the district), three in each
of the above areas of responsibility. Three of these officers have respon-
sibiity for liaison with the coordinating school outreach officers to insure
scheduling and resource use at the coordining school level is managed
smoothly. Tbe exact number of these staff will vay somewhat depending
on the number of primary schools in the district.(l)+(9)-



77
,&JNM  1
Page 7 of 8
e)     HaoMnag= Mnt Iainina - Supervises all management training in the
district for school heads, deputy heads, coordinating school outreach
officers, PTA heads, local government and community leaders. Assists
PIU monitoring officer in assessing progress and identifying problems in
the implementation of the TDMS model within the district. (1) + (1)
f)     Head of Distribution - Supervises one learning materials distribution
officer with responsibility for distribution of all centrally provided text-
books and instructional materials to the schools in the core PTC catchment
area. Also supervises one zona engineer responsible for both technical
support and distribution of all centrally provided construction materials.
The construction process makes use of county, sub-county and school-
level committees which mobilize community input to the construction.
(1) + (2).
m. COORDINATING SCHOOL LEVEL
Each core PTC district/catchment area will contain a carefully planned network of
coordinating schools, each with its associated outreach schools. The number of coordinatng
schools will vary, from perhaps 15 to 30, according to the number and the distribution of
schools in the district. The number of associated outreach schools will vary from six to
fifteen, again depending on the distribution of schools and the local geography and transport
patterns. ;Te coordinating school will be selected for its central location, accessibility and
space for several additional buildings. The school should be a complete school with all seven
standards. The coordinating school will serve as a location for the gathering of teachers from
the outreach schools for structured in-service courses. for meetings of those doing the
upgrading course, for production of instructional materials, for informal sharing and mutual
assistance. Coordinating schools also provide a framework for more efficient and effective
supervision of teaching practice for students in the pre-service course.
1. Coordinating School Head
Heads of coordinating schools should be carefully selected. They should
be experienced teachers and have demonstrated reasonable management
capabilities. They should also be strong supporters of the in-service
function of the coordinating school.
2. Coordinating School Outreach Officer
The Outreach Officers should have the status of a deputy head with
responsibility for all outreach to the associated outreach schools and for
liaison with the supporting core PTC. These officers should be experi-
enced primary school teachers who also have demonstrated ability to
manage resources and to counsel practicing teachers. The Outreach
Officer will be responsible for scheduling the resource room and facilities



78
Page 8 Of 8
at the coordinatg whool, for aessing needs and wanS of teaches in
the  tach schools, and for communicating i nf on about various
programs originating in the core PCs.
3. School     ice Lad0r
Ewh scdool wiI have an experienced teacher - in somb cams the head
teacher - designated as the lead teacher. Tha peson wil have respond-
bility for assisting the Outreach Officer in the coorinating scool to
communicate with teachers in the school and to organize tachers for
various in-srvice acivities when appropriae. lTe in-svice leaders ae
the bottom link in the hierarchy of support for primary education. They
may wel be the members of an association based at the Outreach School
which helps to manage all activides of that group of schools.



79
ANNEX AI
Page I cf 3
REPUBUC OF UGANDA
pRIMARY E=WC'ATI[ON ADTEAwCHEIR DM9EVPT  I
EPU ORGANIZATION, STAFF AND FUJNCTIONS
The Educational Planning Unit (EPU) currendy consists of four sections (Statistics,
Finance & Budgeting, Projects and Donor Coordination, and Planning); the unit operaes with
nine professional members of staff.
Previous donor efforts at strengthening the EPU have had limited impact The July-
August IBRD pre-appraisal team recommended gradual strengthening of the unt, in stages,
over the five year plan period. The Draft SAR (October 1991) specified *initla efforts
directed at strengthening the Statistcs and Finance and Budgeting Departments," with
additional resources programmed later in the project to assist other sections of the EPU, once
the initial strengthening of the first two sections had been successfidlly completed. The team
also recommended placement of project preparation activities in the PIU.
The EPU has proposed a revised organizational structure consisting of five
professional sections and one administrative support section as illustrated in the attacbed
organizational chart. Contrazy to the recommendations of the earlier mission, the government
has requested that capacity-building activities begin in all five sections of the EPU during the
first year of project implementation.
Although the EPU has not yet developed a written work plan for eacb section under
this new organization, based upon discussions with EPU staff, it is understood that main areas
or responsibility of each section would be as follows:
Statigig and Data (S&D)
Ihis unit would concentrate on the design, implementation and analysis of the annual
school census. Data coding, capture and cleaning would be done in-house utlizing computer
operators and statistical assistants from the A&A support section. In addition to generatiDg
annual summary reports, the section would maintain a longitudinal data base on all schools in
the country (updating district codes, etc. as required) and would provide special analyses in
response to requests from the Director and other sections of the EPU. lbis section would also
provide services in the design of survey insauments and data coding, capture, cleaning and
analysis for other studies to be undertaken by sections within the EPU.
Planning and Micro Planning (P&MP)
This section would be responsible for physical planning, school mapping and micro
planning. The unit would be responsible for the national school mapping exercise, working
closely with the 1DMS team in conducting facilities surveys and In the ideatification and
upgrading of *coordinatlng primary schools and their respective moutreach" primary school
network. The unit would also liaise closely with the Ministry of Local Govenment regarding
all primary school construction and maintenance and would assist distdct administors and



80
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
communities in micro planning, including .hool location, construction standards and
architectural plams. The secdon would also liaise with relevant agencies regarding community-
supported school construction under the PAPSCA models and would oversee maintenan of
facilides utilzing the zonal construction engineers located at each Core PTC.
Finance and Budgetini (F&B)
This section would liaise with all departments of the Ministry of Education in
collecting required data to develop the Ministry's annual budget submission. The secton
would also liaise with the Ministry of Local Government, the Ministry of Finance and the
Teacher Service Commission on reconciling and auditing the flow of all education-rae
expenditures, including teachers' salaries and capitatdon grats. This section would also
provide leadership in the computerization of the MOE budgeting and auditing functions.
ect Preparation. Studies and Aid Coordination (PPS&AC)
This section would be responsible for all project preparation and donor coordination
within the education sector. It would liaise with donor missions in seeking support for the 39
projects identified in the Government's Five Year Investment Plan. In this context, it would
assist external agencies in obtaining data, documents and other information required for
project identification, preparation and appraisal.
This section would maintain a comprehensive library of reports, studies and
documents related to the education sector and would Identify data sources within the EPU, the
MOE and other units of govermnent related to education which are need for project
preparation.
This section would also undertake special studies, such as the Secondary Education
and Book Sector Policy, and would be responsible for developing terms of reference for
studies to be conducted by consultants and outside agencies. It would also develop grant
proposals for funding of additional studies which the Ministry may Identify, fom time to
time. The PPS&DC data bases would also be used for 'quick response' analyses and policy
studies.
Research. Training. Monitorina  Evaluation (RTM&E)
This section would be responsible for staff development planning throughout the
Ministry and for resetrch, project monitoring and evaluation. The section would work closely
with the PPS&AC section in developing detailed monitoring and evaluation indicators for all
new projects and for tracking project implementation (see attached indicators for this proposed
project). On-going monitoring and evaluation would include a bmrad ran of indicators, with
particular emphasis on changes attributable to proj3ct interventions. In addition to pupil
measures such as performance, repetition, drop-add, advancement to secondary, etc., outcome
indicators should include teacher performance, retention, satisfaction; parental and
community participation in governance; participation in school maintenance and other forms
of support (such as PTA contributions).



81
ANNXI
Page 3 of 3
In addition to the periodic evaluation of progress and incremental impact, the RTM&E
would develop a plan for evaluating the overU4malt of Investment projects, as well as the
impact of specific project components. For example, evaluation of the TDMS component of
the Uganda Education Sector Development Project might require developing a broad set of
baseline measures on the TDMS districts and corresponding data for non-TDMS districts.
Data which might be used for this purpose include the three year series of school census data
1989-91, historical PLE results, participation rates In secondary school, information on
facilites (which would be obtained in the TDMS selection and School Mapping studies),
information on expenditure, finance, parental and community involvement (which would be
obtained from the PPS&AC Cost and Finance Study), information on the participation rates
(derived from matching population census and school census data), etc. Comparable designs
would be required for evaluation of each component of each investment project. These
baseline data would also provide a point of reference in assessing project impact in annual
implementation reviews and in the mid-term review, scheduled for May 1995. lhe RTM&E
Section would work closely with PPS&DC in identifying and obtaining needed data.
Administraton & Accounting (A&A)
This section would coordinate support services across the five professional sections of
the unit. The unit would be headed by a professional office adminisrator. All support staff
(secretaries, clerk, drivers, computer operators, statistical assistants, etc.) would be assigned
by the office administrator to the five professional sections, as required. This arrangement
would maximize efficient use of resources and parallels the model successfiully in use in the
PIU.  The office administator would also be responsible or closely monitoring atedance
and performance of support staff and for designing and implementing monitoring mechnisms.



82                                ANNEX12
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SMRY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DhOPMENTm PROIECr
SECONDARY EDUCATION PRE-INVESTMENT STuDY
1.    Problems of secondary education in Uganda differ from problems faced elsewhere in the
developing world not in kind but In degree. Ugaudan education authorities are concerned with a
familiar range of quest ions: how to provide better quality and more relevant education for an
increasing number of learners with limited resources. This challenge has always been before
Ugandan planners, civil servants, and educators but it is a far greater one today because of the
formidable financial problems and because years of civil unrest have exacted a horrible toll on
secondary schools and fundamental school equipment and supplies.
2.    Uianddan education practitioners and policy makers face a second almost unique difficulty.
Tbe extreme dearth solid fincial data and analysis (of both cost and revenue) complicates and
f-ustrates attempts to plan for the development of the subsector. The kind of work proposed in
the pre-investment study, particularly the cost analysis, wUI provide a powerfil and indispessable
tool for helping policymakers, planners and educational practitioners cope effectively with the
gargantuan task of reconstrucdng a devastated system of secondary education.
3.    Of the four components, the first one dealing with cost functions should receive priority
attention. Bank proceeds will be directed to this portion of the pre-investment study and
addidonal resources from other donor agencies will be sought to carry out the others.
X. Cost and Production Functions of Educaion
4.    Tbe basic cost information on which to begin building sound educational policies for
Uganda is lacking. Regrettably even past projects assisted by intenational institudons have failed
to produce the needed analytic work. Designing a strategy to improve secondary educadon in
Uganda will tot be easy and will depend fundamentally on the ability to see the several options
and trade-offs avaiable to them more clearly. Cost function analysis can reveal the possible
advantage of redeploying limited resources between different levels and types of education,
between different categories of inputs, and between different geographic areas. It can uncover
serious internal waste and inefficiency and possible ways to eliminate them. It can suggest ways
to enhance the external productivity of education and the benefits accruing to individuals as well
as to society from directing investments in an optimal manner.
S.    The avaiable evidence on school efectiveness (i.e., the level, quality and mix of inputs
which best produces' performance objectives) is largely derived from environmet tat are
profoudly different from Uganda. More important, evidence on the efficiency of alternative
strategies-that is, on effectiveness of input mixes relative to their costs-is even scarcer and less
applicable to the Ugandan context. Thus the basic information on which to build educational
policies is lacking. The objective of the cost and productions functions study is to acquire the
basic cost, achievement, and post graduation behavior data and analysis necessary to make such
information available. Undoubtedly the data needed will not be readily at hand and a school
survey wDI be required. The data requirements will Include:



83                             AN=  12
Page 2 of 6
*     Total enollments by levels and types of insdtutions and geographic areas and by
Individual grade levels.
*     Annual umber of completers In each category of institudons and annual number
of dropouts and repeates.
*     Total number of teachers broken down by subject area, qualification level, years
of service, salary categories and status (flIl-time, part-te).
*     Total annual expenditures on each level and type of intitudon, broken down by
eurnt and capital costs and by major subcategories within each of these
(particularly teacher costs separated from other re e  costs).
*     The ratio of educational expenditures to the GNP and to total public expenditures.
*     The rado of teacher costs to total recurrent costs, by educaton levels and by type
of institudon.
X       he comparative level and composidon of unit costs of different types of
titutions (public/private; vocational/tchnIcal/general), In differet parts of the
country, for urban and mral areas, of day and boaring schools and for size of
shool (I.e. small schools versus large schools).
*     'he theoretical cost of a secondary school graduate (cost per year x normal
number of grades) as against the actual cost per graduate (allowing for dropouts
and grade repeaig.
3      lbe pupil/teacher rado and class sizes In different types of institutions and in
vaiu   subjects.
i     Standardized measu  of achievement corresponding to the differet area of the
econdary curriculum. Some achievement indicams should be available across all
types of schools in order to estimate the relative effctiveness of dift
intional arrangements, etc. Other Indicators will differ depnding on the
principal objectives of the school.
*     Labor market, job search time, job   c rss and other employment (or
additional study/trin  informadon wUI b reqired for estma     ex otena
efficienc or the eten to which the school is able to infuence the occupational
atainmn of its graduates. Salary and wage date will pmkit the calculaon of
return to differeat levels of schooling.



84                                  ANNX 12
Page 3 of 6
6.    In general this part of the study wIll contribute to assessing how alternative policies might
improve the way the secondary system works. For example, knowledge of fimdamental cost
functions of secondary education In Uganda would provide the empirical basis for budgetary
decisions. It would also make it possible to document the efficiency of resource use in schools,
the returns to investing in secondary education, scale economies (e.g. what is the optimal size of
the enrollment and related physical plant), unit cost differentials associated with different
structural arrangements (e.g. including lower secondary with primary) and with different
curricular mixes (e.g. general secondary education vs. a more comprehensive curriculum), the
efficiency of various quality enhancing inputs, and the equity of public spending on education.
The measures of academic achievement will be used in analyzing the efficiency of schools in
reaching basic instructional objectives while the occupational attainment data will provide the
basis for calculations of external efficiency.
7.    Key cost functions can also be the basis for comparing the relative efficiency (cost per
graduate) of public and private schools or of different types of secondary schools. For example,
it would permit precise calculations of the relative cost of vocational versus general education.
Ultimately, it provides the means of discussing who pays for and who benefits from secondary
school. It provides MOES planners with fundamental tools to plav. expansion and to estimate the
returns to investment in quality enhancing inputs to schooling.
S.    The fimance side of this component will identify the determinants of education revenues.
Among the most important of these are likely to be: (a) the rate of inflation; (b) competing
demands of other public services;.(c) the rate of growth of the national economy; (d) the nat"- f
the tax system; (e) the nature and stability of foreign trade; (f) the availability of foreign
assistance. The identification of revenue sources will include the direct financing of secondary
education by non government entities. The role of communities in financing secondary education
has been important in Uganda. A common form of participation is providing labor to put up
school buildings. Communities may also make cash contribudons to purchase building materials.
They may also share in the operating costs of schools, including salaries. An even more difficult
but vitally important contribution to school finance is that maue by households. Such data may
exist from survey data on household income and expenditure.
11. Strategic decislons regarding coverage, function, and structure
9.    This part of the study may well prove the most vital to the future of Ugandan education.
It will seek plausible answers to questions regarding size, function and structure, three interelated
dimensions of schooling which must be addressed separately but simultaneously as each bears
critical relationship to the other. Together, information on these production fiuctions will enable
Ugandan authorities to posidon secondary education in such a way as to assure its responsiveness
to national development goals. Official policy appears to fvor a gradual unification of the
current differentiadon that characterizes the secondary level and is a carryover from the Uganda's
colonial past. This unification is embodied in the concept of the 'comprehensive school.
Fundamentally the comprehensive school emerges from the introduction of more 'practical"
courses in general schools and more general academic worlr in vocational schools.



85                             ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 6
The over-arching question becomes, what is the central purpose of secondary education? What has
been the Ugandan experience In earlier efforts at Introducing comprehensive, vocational and
academic secondary schools programs? Should it be considered a universal prerequisite for
competent citizenship in Ugandan society? Other questions will be addressed under each of the
major headings.
Coverage
10.   Important information for decisions about coverage include: transition rates into and from
secondary, measures of inequality of access among important subpopulations, stock of adequately
trained/credentialed teachers, and supply of classrooms and teaching materials. Externalities
associated with secondary education such as reduction of the spread of infectious disease should
also be included among criteria affecting the growth of the subsector.
Structure
11.   What is considered to be basic or universal is a crucial decision for Uganda. If the lower
secondary level is a major determinant of earnings differentials, a change in education structuro
that includes it in basic or compulsory education can be expected to broaden the access to
earnings at this level and bring a larger percentage of the poor into the earnings stream. Other
Implications of structural change of this type include curriculum (function) questions and
transition (size) quesdons.
uction
12.   How can the subsector best respond to the demand for educated labor? What type and
what level of knowledge should be taught to whom at what stage in the secondary program? How
do the instructional objectives evolve as the coverage of the system expands?
m. Public PoUcy Toward Private Schools
13.   The thrust of this sub-study is to examine the present and make recommendations as the
future role relationship of the public to the private sector in the provision of secondary schooling.
The study would first, develop a typology (classification) of secondary schools and, second, focus
on issues of relative growth, quality control, efficiency and financing. As private secondary
education (aided and non-aided schools) has been the bulwark of secondary education provision,
an aim of the study would be to seek ways of preserving this role while maining and
improving quality and Increasing equity in the face of scarce goverment and famluy resourcas
and the government's forthcoming decentralization initiative.
14.   The rapid growth in secondary enrollments In Uganda has come largely from part
orgaizations. Dwindling government investment in the past two decades has barely managed to
keep school open. Moreover, even in today's improved economic climate, the heavy burdens on
the public treasury together with the economic and politcal limits on taxation, make it unlikely
that the public sector alone can solve the vast problems affecting the subsector.



86                                   ANE  12
Pagoe 5 of 6
15.   The purpose of this part of the study is therefore to summarize lnowledge of the role of
private finance and management of education and to draw implications for the public poliies tht
will shape the role of the Ugandan private education sector over the next decade. Key questions
to be addressed are: (a) Should private schools be encouraged as a meas of mobUizfng additiona
resources for education and economizing public funds? (b) If the government retains financing
responsibiities, should it delegate production responsibiities to the privat sector via mechnisms
such as voucher schemes. contracting arngements and subsidies? (c) What impact will this
have on the efficiency and equity of the System? (d) Are private schools higher in quality and
lower in cost than public schools? Or, do they downgrade their product, in order to maximize
profit? (e) Do private schools improve access by increaing the number of schools, or do they
give privileged access to upper income groups? (t) Should private schools be regulated by
government in order to prevent financial and/or academic abuses? Or do regulations currentiy In
effect do more harm than good?
IV. Curriculum Choice In Today's Economic Enironment.
16.   Rapid change ir many aspects of Ugandan economic reality forces a caudous and
thoughtfiu approach to the question of an appropriate Ugandan vocational education and training
(VET) strategy. This part of the secondary education study seeb to answer the question
concerning the proper role of formal schooling in a VET strategy. The prevailing view in the
world today and one supported by the Bank's recent VET policy paper is that the prime role of
government schools is for the proision of general education. In this view, rapid change In
economic realities make the private market place the optimal provider of the kind of training
which they, as principal beneficiaries, are best equipped to provide.
17.   However, a single approach is not necessarily correct fur all countries with economies as
different as those, say, of Uganda and Germany. Uganda is at a comparatively early stage in the
path of industril development. If it is true that with increased industrial and commercial
doveopment the direct role of government in training should diminish, then it foilows that there
may be some transitional place for goverment in the provision of vocational trainig. An
objective of this part of the secondary study will be to explore the range of policies avaiable to
the government to finance skills training, especially where the market fs to meet specialized
skil demand. Uganda is a low income country but this fact is Ibelf not permanent. Economic
growth is a long-term process. The study will elucidate the VET policies required to compeons
for the shortfalls of the private sector during the transidon period in which the country currenty
finds itself.
18.   A second objective of this part of tha secondary study is to provide decision makes with
a range of policy options for achieving the level of science proficiency desired at the lowest
possible cosL Tbe costs of reconstructing the traditional science laboratories typicaly found In afl
genera secondary institutions is approximately one third of the total capital costs of schooling.
At issue is whether such costs are justifiable in light of recent evidence concerning the relatively
small contribution of laboratory work to useful science lmowledgo. However, the larger issue to
be addressed by this study is the need for a national philosophy of science education. Rather
than dowagrading science, the study will explore ways of bringi  Ugandan secondary clasrm
quicidy into the minsream of contemporary science tbining but in a way that corsponds to
Uganda's history and current economic realides.



a11111 1111
ugigxi§t j
Vi §!XX14M] E



Prlmry Education  t Teocher elt t Project
Project cost Sminry
USS                                UaSh                           X Total
.............................    .....................................  X foreign  Bae
Locat  Forelgn    Total          Local    Foregn       Total    Eachwge    Costs
A . STRENCN.TEACNINO & NMN
1. Iprov. Prim. Ng&lntr.    a879.?   1796.5   3676.3         219007.4  2093114.3  4283187.7         46.9       7.0
2. RehabA Constnuc.faclilt.    5851.3  18022.6  23873.9      6817290.0 2099077.6 27815367.6         75.5      45.7
3. ProvidIng Leam.Remsources    1156.4  10932.2  12085.6     1347314.S 12736989.2 14084303.6        90.4      23.2
4. 8*dg. Priv. Sec. Capacity    213.9    412.6    626.5       24921.6   480717.7   729931.3         65.9       1.2
5th-Total                         9101.3  31163.9  40265.2    10603091.4 36308696.8 46912790.2          77.4      77.1
B . EKN. STRATEGIC MES fUICT
1. Strength. Plrn. Pot. Aal    1274.9   1197.5   2472.4      1485309.7  1395199.8  2880509.5        48.4       4.7
2. Upgrading Ngnt. System      1414.3   1092.3   2506.6      1647821.3  1272602.8  2920424.1        43.6       4.8
3. ReformIn Curric A Earn.      605.3   3323.0   3928.3       705187.0  3871606.7  4576793.7        84.6       7.5
4. Project lspemntutlon         825.9   2200.T   3026.6       962251.0  2564021.9  3526272.9        72.7       5.8
SaL-Total                         4120.4   7813.5  11933.9       4800649.0  9103431.2  13904080.2       65.5      22.9
.......  ........ .................. ...............  .... .... ...... .......... ...................  ....... ............ . ... .........
Total BASELINE COSTS              13221.7  38977.4  S2199.1    15404540.4 45412330.0 60816870.3         74.7    100.0
Physical Cantingncies            664.7   1948.9   2613.6       774421.4  2270616.S  3045037.9        74.6       5.0
Price contingencfee             5911.4   3405.5   9316.9      6887293.0  3967m.3  10855018.4         36.6      17.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS              19797.8  4331.8  64129.5    23066254.8 51650671.8 74716926.6          69.1    122.9
~~~~~~~~~~._......................... -.. s.. .--.......................... ,....gs- .................................. .....
~~~~~~~uuu.uuagmm..uusuuaa..... ..............U.....................                       *3UUUSZ3U
Vaimes Scaed by 1000.0 - 2117/1993 17:02
Total project costs of US$104.1 million include two US$ 25 million grants from USAID to
Uganda for lbe establishme  of the TDMS and provision of books OQ ning resources)
respectively. lbese amounts (except for US$10 million) have not been induded in ihe, cost tables
in Annex 11 which show a total project cost of USS64. imillion and which include USS 10
million (from the above US$ 25 million book grant) as countpart funding for books by
Government. In order for IDA to participate/be involved In both the establishment of TDMS and
the provisio  of le;anig resources, US$4.8 milion and US$3.8 millon repectivdy will be
funded dutough the IDA CrediL



Priary Edeticmn and Teacwr Oslopnt Project
Projects C    <q.mts by Tar
Totals Including ContingencIs
us$
....................................................................................
92/93       93/94       94/195     9/96        96/97       97/9        Total
A. STRENGH.TEACNGIlC * N^T
1. Ipov. Prim. 1Notinstr.            692.2      1301.5      1026.0      974.8        676.4       129.1     480.0
2. RhabA Construc.Facilit.           271.0      3879.1      4869.9     4168.4       7123.2      7368.1    30399.8
3. Providing Learn.Resources           0.0     11564.0      2185.6         0.0         0.0         0.0    13749.6
4. Bld. Priv. Sec. Capacity         460.6        72.7        70.6        70.7        72.4         0.0       747.3
Sub-Total                               1423.6    16617.3       8152.4      7913.8      7872.1      7517.3    49696.8
a. EMN. STRATEGIC HOES FtNCT
1. Strenth. Plan. Pot. Anal         1292.4        82.4       528.6       213.1       165.2        55.6     3037.4
2. upgrading Nt. Systm               921.6       604.8       563.2       373.8       391.3       409.6      3264.2
3. Reforming Curric 9 Exm.           608.1      1609.9      1493.9       S67.5       187.3       118.1      4584.8
4. Project lpltemntotion            1377.2       571.4       806.9       521.3     .137.9        131.7      3546.4
...........  .. .......................................................................
Sub-Total                               4199.3      3568.5      3392.6      1675.8       881.6       714.9    14432.8
................  ....................... ......... ...................... . ................ ............................ .
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    5623.1    20385.8    1154S.0       9569.6      8753.6       8232.2    64129.5
........................................................................................................................................................ 
Values Scated by 1000.0 2/17/1993 17:02
c~I



Priary Egdnat in ad Teedwr Dnil_nt Poject
Projects Cqnuits by Year
Totats lt:luding Cntgmencles
............ ...... ........................ ..............................................................
92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96       96/9?       97198       Total
A. STRENGN.TEAUINl6  M RUT
1. Iqrov. Prm. NPt&lnatr.         80639.5   1516334.4   11M428.3   15S683.1    786126.5   150450.8  SS92462.7
2. R".b8, Cmnstruc.fecilit.       315774.4  4519569.0  .673902.S  8002280.4   89254.3  8607879.6 3418660.2
3. Prldin  LearnR.eourcee             0.0  13473168.8  2563.0              0.0         0.0         0.0  16019611.7
4. Bldg. Priv. Seu. Cqaclty       S36691.4    84701.8    82S4S.3    82M4.8    8430.9                0.0   870664.3
Stfrfotel                            1658905.3  19593774.0  949819.2  9220303.4  9171761.8  87530.4  S7901399.0
B. MU. STRATEGIC NOES RUCT
1. Streth. Plan. Pft. Anal       15057S9.9   911601.1   615925.3   2483.8   192479.1    64m.3  3531876.S
2. Upgrading   t. Stytm          1073700.7   704626.9    6S612.1   43S521.4   45S83.1   477177.4   303041.5
3. ReformIng Curric & Ex.         708508.6  1875676.2  1740S24.3    661151.5   218203.3   137611.0  S341674.8
4. Project laplmmatation         1604597.3   60726.5   940136.4   607410.1   160645.4   1S3419.1  4131934.7
............. ........................................... ,.............................
SubTotal                             469256.5  4157630.7  3952736.0  1952421.7   10M90.9   83299.8  1661SS27.6
..................................................... ..........................................................................w,,.. 
Totel PIJEtCS COSts                  6551471.8  23751404.7  13451057.2  11172730.1  10198ff2.7  9591310.2  74716926.6
......................................................................................................................
Vaim Scaed by 1030.0 21T171995 ls712
0



lPrimary E atd tn ead.~ Teacher Seelqum   ml
smWV AcesMt Cost _rauy
Local      TotamIotal                                                    
..............................   ..................----------------  .  X fellwb   ft
Loul  fworol       Totpw lt    forcin                    tot       E l icba     costs;
I. IIWswTE  COSTS
...................
A. Civit Worts
1. Constructlmn                4864.0  10322.7  15186.7        567016.2  12826913.7  17693929.9        68.0      29.1
2. lmwnntlcon                    45.0   6961.2   7006.2          S2429.2  8110509.1  8162938.4          9A4       13.4
.....          ....... . ...................   ........................................... ....................
Sub-Totl                          4909.0  172 3.9  22192.9        5719445.4  20137422.3 255686.2           77.9     42.5
S. EqwiIut
1. furnltwe                     a96.6   1420.6   1947.2         613536.4  1655190.5  2268728.9          73.0       3.7
2. Vehfcles                     116.8   1485.1    1601.9        136003.0  1730304.1  18687.0            92.7      3.1
3. Other Equip & Haterlals       26.5   2122.3   2148.8          30875.0  24736.8  2503611.8            96.8       4.1
4. Books I istruction fNts.   1163.7  10903.9  12067.6         1355819.6  12704017.0 14059836.7         90."      23.1
Sub-Tot(l                         1833.6  15932.0  17765.6        2136316.0  18562248.4. 2069854.4         89.7     34.0
C. TraIlnro
1. Local Training               77.1    277.1   1064.2          91;W7.8   322816.4  1239916.1           26.0       2.0
2. Intrmtlmal training            0.0    413.0    413.0              0.0   481183.7   481183.7         100.0       0.8
_.....................W  .......   .............   ....................................  ...........................................................
Sub-Total                          787.1    690.1   147.2          917097.8    0402.1  1721099.8           46.7       2.8
0. Technical Aefstuic
1. Locel Teclnical  ssIst.     2576.8    475.2   3052.0        3002213.7   SS3652.6  3555866.2          15.6      5.8
2. foreign Teh. Assistnce       100.0   3436.5   3536.5         116509.4  4003844.8  4120354.2          97.2       6.8
............ ..............   ....................................   ..... I...............'
SurTott                           2676.8   3911.7   6588.5        31%$7Z.1  4557497.4  7676220.4           59.4      12.6                              -
Total INVESTEUT COSTS            10206.5  3781T.7  48024.2    11891582.2 4061170.7 55952752.9              78.7      92.0
II.  REtE EWT COSTS
.................7..
A. Salarles                       1737.6      24.0   1761.6       202478.6    27962.3  2052440.9            1.4       3.4
B. coummbles                       302.8    268.7    571.5         352804.4   313060.7   665865.1          47.0       1.1
C. Naintenmic                      710.0    717.0   1427.0         327274.8   035372.2  1662647.1          S0.2       2.7
D. Travnl   per dim                264.7    150.0    414.7         300400.3   174764.1   483164.4          36.2       0.8
............. ...............................  ....................................  ................................
Total  O RIRElT COSTS             3015.2   1159.7   4174.9       3512958.2  1351159.3  4864117.4           27.8       8.0
Total BASELINE COSTS             1321.7  38977.4  52199.1    15404540.4 45412330.0 60816870.3              74.7    100.0
Physical Continencis            664.7   1948.9   2613.6         774421.4  22786.5  3045037.9            74.6       5.0
Price Contine-ncIes            5911.4   3405.5   9316.9        6879.0  39677.3  1085508.4              36.6      17.6
Total PfWECTS COSITS             1979.8  4433t.8  64129.5    23066254.8 51650671.8  74716926.6            69.1    122.9
................................... a............................................................... =.......................
Value Scaled    1000.0 -  2/17/1M   17:02



Prl_ry Education and Teacher Derelopemnt Prolect
Sumry Apctmt by Project Coqponent
11,
lspro,.  Rehab.& Providin    Bids.  Strength                                                    Physical          Price
Prim,  Construe       9       Priv.      Plan. Upgradin leformin  Project                    Cantinguiles      Contingencies
Ngstllns  .Faelilt  Leern.Re    Sec.      Pot.     9  Wt. .9 Curric  b plem.n                                ......  ..........
tr.        .      seurees  Capacity   Anal    Systems        Exem.  tatlon      Total        X     Aint             A eount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Civil Vorka                                                                                                                                      45     31.
1. Construction                       0.0   12936.7       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0   2250.0        0.0  1S186.7        5.0     759.3   24.5    3tl6.4
2. Renrvation                         0.0   6956.2        0.0        0.0       0.0      10.0       0.0      40.0   7006.2        5.0     350.3    12.7    191.1
....................................................................................................................................
Sti-total                             0.0  19892.9        0.0        0.0       0.0      10.0 . 2250.0       40.0  22192.9        5.0    1109.6   20.8   4;07.5
S. Equipmnt
1. Furniture                          0.0   1801.2        0.0       6.0        0.0      10.0      75.0      55.0   1947.2        5.0      97.4   23.1      4S0.6
2. Vehicles                         707.9    402.0        0.0       25.0      75.0     150.0     150.0      92.0   1601.9        5.0      80.1    6.8       108.9
3. Other Equip & Nateritls          401.6    676.2    413.0         59.0     113.0      20.0    205.0    261.0   2148.8          5.0     107.4    6.3       178.0
4. looks & Instruction Rats.        350.0        0.0   11675.6      16.0       0.0       4.0      22.0       0.0  12067.6        5.0     603.4     8.7    1050.7
Subrtotla                          1459.5   2879.5   12088.6    106.0    188.0    184.0    452.0    406.0  1776S...              S.0     888.3    10.1    1788.2
C. Tralning
1. Local Tralning                     0.0       0.0       0.0      121.0    390.5    348.1        32.6    172.0   1064.2         5.0      53.2    26.8      285.3
2. International Training             0.0       0.0       0.0       45.0       4.0      10.0    354.0        0.0    413.0        5.0      20.6      7.0      29.0
........ ............. _........................................................................... .................................. .. .....
Sub-total                             0.0       0.0       0.0      166.0    394.S    358.1       386.6    172.0   1477.2         5.0      73.9   21.3    314.2
D. Technical Assistance
1. Locat Technical Assist.           18.0    489.6        0.0      50.0    618.8    1152.0       26.o    477.6   3OS2.0          S.1     1S6.2   31.1       948.9
2. Foreign Tech. Assistence           0.0       0.0        0.0     252.0 *  995.5    493.S       346.5   149.0   3536.5          S.0      176.8    S.2      184.S
Sb-totat                             18.0    489.6         0.0    302.0   1614.3   1645.5    592.5    1926.6   65e8.5            S.1     333.0    17.2    1133.4
....................................................................................................................................
Total INVESIENIT COSTS              1477.5  23262.0  12088.6    574.0   2196.8   2197.6   3681.1   2546.6  48024.2                S.0   2404.8    16.3   763.4
II. REOARENT COSTS
A. Selaries                          1S00.5    170.9        0.0       0.0       6.2      12.0       0.0      72.0   1761.6        S.0      88.1    43.4    764.2
B. Consabtes                          85.0      100.0       0.0      30.0    191.3       18.0      21.2    126.0    57.S          5.0      28.6    27.3      156.2
C. Naintenence                       589.2    338.0        0.0        0.0      36.0      45.0    196.8    222.0   1427.0          5.0      71.4   30.1    430.1
D. Trawl & per diem                    24.0       3.0      0.0       22.5      42.0    234.0       29.Z      60.0    414.7        5.0      20.7    29.7      123.0
...........................-   -------...--------------------------------------------..................................................................................
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                2198.7    611.9        0.0      52.5    275.6    309.0    247.2    480.0   4174.9            5.0     208.7   35.3    1473.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 3676.3  23873.9  12088.6    626.5   2472.4   2506.6   3928.3   3026.6  52199.1               5.0   2613.6    17.8   9316.9
Physical Contingencies              183.8   1193.7    604.4        31.3    127.2      125.3     196.4    151.3   2613.6
Price Contingencies                 939.9   5332.2   1056.6        89.5    437.8    632.2    460.1    366.5   9316.9            4.8     444.6                           'U
*---------.--.....................-......................................... ............ I ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4800.0  30399.8  13749.6    747.3   3037.4    3264.2   4584.6   3546.4  64129.5               4.8    3058.1    14.5   9316.9
*D-Xs -a-X=-Zt J*sS-s--- 2MUM=Z--Z--= "--  W---- -t t=ta-- Z8-Z--- --w-- =wSC----Z=-s--w=w=t=BX zv0==st=sag=5a-i_= ="w=wW
Taxes                                0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0                           0
Foreign Exchaoe                   199.4  21186.1  12032.1    442.5   1302.5    1206.0   3725.0   2440.1  4331.8                 4.8    2111.0
..............................................................................................................................................,.---.-----. . .
Values Scaled by 1000.0  2/17/1993  17:02



Pribuy EdLcation and Teacher Dvelopmnt Project
Summary Accosmts by Year
1utelt includins Contingencies
USt
............. .. ............................................................................
92/93       93/4         94/95       95f6         96/97       97/98        Total
1. IMVESUIENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Vorks
1. Construction                      266.6       3099.7      4012.6       3937.3      4092.4       4254.0     19662.5
2. Renovation                         57.3       1165.3       1276.5      1858.0       1915.6      1975.0      8247.6
Sub-Total                               323.9       4265.0       5289.1     s5s.2         6008.0      6228.9      27910.1
O. EquIpoent
1. furniture                          39.1        316.3       370.3        635.7       556.s        s7.s       2495.3
2. Vehicles                          877.6        546.5        135.1       153.3         38.3        40.1       1790.9
3. Other Equip * Naterials           557.8        330.8        719.2       434.1       203.6        188.8      2434.3
4. Books & Instruction Nets.          107.3     11672.0       1823.3       110.6          5.4         3.1      13721.7
Sub-Total                               1581.7     1286S.5       3047.8      1333.8        803.8       809.5      20442.1
C. Trainins
1. Local Training                    416.9        325.3       225.9        205.0       171.0         S8.6      1402.7
2. International Training             76.9        148.4        153.0        45.6        18.1         18.6       462.6
Sub-Total                               495.8        473.7        378.9       250.6        189.1        77.3       186s.3
D. Technical Assistnce
1. Local Technical Assist.          1034.5        768.5       787.3        608.7       515.8        442.5      4157.1
2. foreign Tech. Assistance         1868.2        875.7        822.6      '331.3         0.0          0.0      3897.8
Sub-Total                              2902.7       1644.2       1609.8       940.0       515.8        442.5      8054.9
.....................................................................................
Total INVESTIENI COSTS                 5304.1      19248.5      10325.7      8319.5      7516.5       7556.1     S8272.4
It. REajRREUT cOSTS
...................
A. StlarIes                              49.1        6P.7         689.9       595.0       518.2         73.0      2613.9
S. consumables                           87.5        134.6        117.5       136.4        148.6       129.7       756.3
C. Maintenance                           101.0       205.3        319.3       434.6       475.3        393.0      1928.5
D. Travel & per dem                       81.S       108.8         92.6       102.0         95.1        78.3        558.4
Total REOURRENT COSTS                   319.1       1137.4       1219.4      1270.0       1237.2       674.1      5857.1
---g-3- : =UU  =zz==m=-n-U=8  U    S--uTt Uu 73 --W-=U-2-2-3BU- USUU3
Total PROJECT COSTS                    5623.1      20385.8      11545.0      9589.6      8753.8       8232.2     64129.5
........................................................................... ..........................................  
Values Sc led by 1000.0  2/17/1993  17:02                                                                                                                                v



uow
PrlmY Ektcatlwn Td echer OeIsop     Project
5&ry Accems by Ter
Totals Inctuclng Centl _cAn
.....................................................................................
92/9       93/94       941         f9f6        9N97       97/         Total
1. IWSWMT COT
A. Clvfii Wrt
1. Cmntructiem                  310577.6  361140.7  45046.?  4587265.7  47697.S  4955.3  22906 .5
2. luastm                        66767.3  1357671.3   U72U4.1  216727.S  2231184.1  2301020.9  960926S.2
SlTotal                            374.9  496932.0  616220.   675193.2  6999631.5  72s7n9.2  32S17871.7
*. Egiulnt
1. fumitwoe                      4550.5   3692.3   431382.4   740613.4   668351.5   673.S  290720.9
2. Vehicles                    1022471.5   63668.4   1S73.3   17660.0            4577.2    46742.0  206S35.3
3. otbw  Equip   Fterlls       6495.9    3399.3   U37940.7   SO573.8   23720.1   21971.8  286174.6
4. ledk  & Inatructin Nets.    124966.6  135964.8  212428.1   1285.6             6316.S      3616.0  1596703.S
STottal                           1467.4 U196920.8  35SIM1.S  1S53945.8   93 .6   93132.3  23616943.3
C. Tnlnin
1. Local TraIning               485714.8   37043.9   263180.4    2826.0   19G0.3    6306.6  16341.0
2. Intermelawnal TrainIng        9931.0   172911.0   178271.2    S3097.1    21055.0    217W.7   53973.0
ubTotal                            S7764S.6  5S19S4.9    41451.6   2M1923.1   22262.3    90.3  21732S4.0
P. Tecdmical asaistutc
1. Locl TecIlwical Alist.      1205252.1    85351.S   91M9.S   70210.7   600906.    S15496.5  48434ST.2
2. foreign Teuh. Aslstua       2176627.5  IO2031.1   9536.2   3M597.0              0.0         0.0  4S41296.6
lab-Total                         338179.6  195661.7  167525.6  1095185.?   600906.S   51S496.8  n347s6.0
...................................... .... :.......................................... :
Toutl l TN_   COSWS               6179747.7 224269.4  1203039.6  96937.6  6157461.9  8605924.6  676920.0
II. EamhT coImS
...................
A. Salaries                         S64.6   8639.3   803809.0           210.1    603727.s    6509S.3  34535.8
D. Conueru_le                      10199.6   156802.5   13692.3   161275.1   173143.3   1S1092.7   88119.4
C. Naitenmco                       117622.2   239235.6   372012.6   506309.0   553784.7   457936.5  224694.7
0. Trawl & pFr dim                  94977.7   126707.7   107940.7   1188.1   110U31.2    91267.2   6S0612.S
..i.............. i.i;...............................................................
Total   Em     COSTS               371724.1   32515.3  142067.6  147962.3   1446.7   75S35:6  624101.5
Total POECT COSTS                 65S5471.8 23751404.7  13451057.2  11172M .1  10196952.7  f95310.2  7471626.6
.......................................................................................................... ..........
VIlua Scled by IM.0  u11/119     tlh;O
ii.~~~~



Prum" Edwction md Teacher Delpomt Project
US.
Sumry Accuats by Ter
Uaae Costs                                           Foreln E dcu_
92/        93/4       94/m        9596       969?        97/9       Total          t      Amut
1. IKVESTIMFT COSTS
...................
A. Civil Vuwe
1. Cootruction                   250.0     2643.7      3305.0      2596.0     2496.0     296.0    15186.7           68.0    10322.7
2. hnwation                       50.0      1060.0     1126.2      1590.0     1590.0      1590.0     7006.2         99.4     6961.2
stb-total                           300.0     3703.7      4431.2      4566.0     4586.0     4566.0    22192.9          77.9    17283.9
0. Equp'nt
1. Furni tue                      36.0      2m1.6       306.0       493.8      416.8      41L.6      1947.2         73.0      1420.6
2. Vehicles                      121.0       494.0      115.0       124.0       24.0       24.0      1601.9         92.7      1485.1
3. Otihw Erqip 4 Naterlaos       520.9      300.9       64.S        371.5      16).0       152.0     2148.6         98.8      2122.3
4. 6onIca  In truction NOt..     100.5    10616.7      1249.4        94.0        C.S        2.S    12067.6          90.4    10903.9
Stotai                             1478.4    11603.3    207.0        1003.3      616.3      S97.3    17765.6          89.7    1592.0
C. Training
1. Lowal Tesining                371.6      250.4       163.5       17.S       107.1       34.1      1064.2         26.0      27.1
2. International Training         74.0       13S.0      135.0        39.0       15.0       15.0       413.0        100.0      413.0
sub-total                           445.0      305.4       296.5       176.5      122.1       49.1      1477.2         46.7      690.1
O. T ecnical Aslot_mc
1. Local Technical Assist.       900.4      58.2       S52.8       415.6       334.0      264.0      30s2.0         15.6      475.2
2. foreign tech. Assistuu       1750.6      7.0         718.0       28.S         0.0        0.0      3536.S         97.2     3436.S
Sb-total                           2650.4     1370.2      1270.6      699.1       334.0      264.0      65O.S          S9.4     3911.7
Total I TSllWIT COSTS              467.5    17142.6       8307.5      6544.9     S65.4     S496.4    48024.2          78.7    37017.7
It. ETmEUT COSTS
...................
E.   aaries                          42.5      SC9.2        66.4       3.5        317.5       42.5      1761.6          1.4       24.0
F. Cnumomes                          77.5      106.9        69.S       103.S      IS.S        86.5     s5n.s           47.0      26.7
6. Nmint re                          89.7       14.S       239.S      321.0       339.9      272.4      1427.0         S0.2      717.0
N. Tranl & par dia                   72.5       85.0        68.3       71.7         4.7       S2.5      414.7          36.2      150.0
.....................................................................................  ........................
Total KOUMEhlT COSTS                26.3       865.6       863.7      87.0        827.6      455.9      4174.9         27.6      1159.7
Total I LIIE COSTS                 5156.J    16006.2      9171.2      744.6      686.0      552.3    52199.1           74.7    307.4
Phyical Contingmencde            2S9.0      901.6       459.6       371.2      324.3      297.6      2613.6         74.6      1948.9
Price montiug  les               207.3      1476.1     1914.0      1793.7     1943.5     1982.3      9316.9         36.6     340S.S
........ii:........................................u......... ........................... z..........................................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                5623.1    2038.8    11545.0       9569.6      6153.8     832.       64129.5         69.1    4431.8
Taxes                              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        00.0.0                              0.0
Foreign Excae                   4017.4    17266.3      6694.S      94.3       S197.9     S210.3    44331.6         100.0    44331.8
..............................................................................................................................................      
ValuA  Scalsed by 1000.  2/17/I9M3  17:02
oo
o p



Primary Education Wn  Toacher Dovelopmnt Project
us;
Project Cow2onents by Veer
Base Costs                                           Total
..................... ........................................... ^.............................. ..................................._0................. 
92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96      96197       91198      USM        UCSh
A. STRENGLMEACNING & N T
1.  1rv. Prim. Nsgintr.             644.6      1064.2       7S3.8       693.5       434.0        86.0      3676.3  4283187.7
2. Rehab.& ConstrucrFfacIllt.       246 2      3355.7      4Q60.7      5403.8      5403.8      5403.8    23873.9 27B15367.6
3. Providing Learn.Reaources          0.0    10519.2       1569.4          0.0        0.0         0.0    12088.6  14084303.6
4. Bldg. Priv. Sec. Capacity        428.0        55.5         S0.0       47.0        4.0          0.0       626.5   729981.3
.....   ..................................................................................
Stb-total                             1318.8    14994.5        6434.0     6144.3      5883.8      5489.8    40265.2 46912790.2
B. EHH. STRATE6IC NOES FUtCT
1. Strength. Plan. Pot. Anal       1175.6       620.6       387.8       148.0       106.4        34.0      2472.4  2880589.5
2. Upgrading Not. syatems           839.1       490.1       416.6       253.6       253.6       253.6      2506.6  2920424.1
3. ReformIng Cuwric A Exm.          5"6.5      1406.3      1249.2       463.1       150.1        92.9      3928.3  4576793.?
4. Prolect Iuplemntation            1256.8      496.6       683.6        415.6       92.0        82.0      3026.6  3526272.9
Subtotal                              3838.0      3013.6      2737.3       1280.3      602.2       462.5    11933.9  13904080.2
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~      ~  . .......... ......... .........
Total BASELINE COSTS                  5156.8    18008.2       9171.2       7424.6     6486.0      5952.3    52199.1  60816870.3
Physlcal Contingences               259.0       901.6       459.8       371.2       324.3       297.6      2613.6  3045037.9
Price Contingencles                 207.3      1476.1      1914.0      1793.7      1943.5      1982.3      9316.9  10B55018.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                   S623.1    20385.8    11S45.0        9589.6      8753.8      8232.2    64129.5  74716926.6
Taxes                                 0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchang                    4017.4    1726.3        6694.5      5945.3      5197.9      5210.S  3 331.8  51650671.8
Values Scaled by 10W.0 217/1993  17:02
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      pq



97
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
EUirIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENfS
IDA               Disburnent        Cumlative          Project        Couz2ty
Fiscal                     DisbuIements                Profile        Profile
Year                     USS  iion-                  (%)            (%)
FY 1930
SDp. 30, 1993              0.0              0.0            0.0             0.0
Deoc. 31, IM9              0-0              °. °. ° °° 
Mar. 31, 1994              0.9              0.9             2              0.0
Jun. 30 1994               0.9              1.8             4              0.0
YIM
Sep. 30, 1994              0.9              2.7            6.0             3.0
Dec. 31, 1994              0.9              3.6             8.0            6.0
Mar. 31, 199S              3.8              7.4            17.0            8.0
Jun. 30, 1995              3.8              11.2           26.0            10.0
Sep. 30, 1995              3.8              15.0           3S.0            12.0
Dec. 31, 1995              3.8              18.8           44.0            14.0
Mar. 31, 1996              2.9              21.7           51.0            18.0
Jun. 30, 1996              2.6              24.3           57.0            22.0
FY 1997
Sep. 30, 1996              3.8              28.1           66.0            26.0
Dec. 31, 1996              1.7              29.8           70.0            30.0
Mar. 31, 1997              2.1              31.9           75.0            38.0
Jun. 30, 1997              2.1              34.0           80.0            46.0
FY 1M
Sep. 30, 1997              1.7              35.7           84.0            S4.0
Dec. 31, 1997              1.3              37.0           87.0            62.0
Mar. 31, 1998              1.3              38.3           90.0            67.0
Jun. 30, 1998              1.3              39.6           93.0            72.0
Fit !
Sep. 30, 1998              0.9              40.5           95.0            77.0
Dec. 31, 1998              0.4              40.9           96.0            82.0
Mar. 31, 1999              0.4              41.3           97.0            85.0
Jun. 30, 1999              0.4              41.7           98.0            88.0
,F5 2000
Sep. 30, 1999              0.4              42.1           99.0            91.0
Dec. 31, 1999              0.4              42.5           100.0           94.0
Mar. 31, 2000
JuiL 30, 2000
Prqject Compleion Dab: Dhnceber 31, 1999
Prqject Closing Date : lime 30, 2000



98
ANNEX 15 (a)
Page I of 4
REPUIJC OF UGANDA
REVISIONS TO SCNED        S D COSTING AT 12/22/92
PIT S&Weules 2t AcNnmodadon
han                                       AiM            K2            Bate           Total
Multi Pupose Room                          135           1             300            40,500
TDMS Office                                17            1             300             S,100
Material Developmt                         32            1             300             9,600
Libray                                     32            1             300             9,60
aaurom                                     64            2             300            38,400
Toilets                                    17            2             400            13,600
Rebabilitate Dormitories                   450           3             IS0            202,500
(200 students)
Sub Total                                                                        319.300
20% Circulaon                                                                         63.900
(1) Sub Total                                                                    383200
son. Staff House                           73            1             400            29,200
Tutr  House                                63            3             400            75,600
Anciliey staff                             10            3             400            12,000
(2) Sub Total                                                                    116.80
External Cmrldatieon (5%)                                                              13,000
Electicity                                                                             IS,000
Water Supply                                                                           1S,000
External Worss                                                                         15,0009.
(3) Sub Total
GRAND TOTAL (1) 1 (2) + (3)                                                           SS8.000
Professional Fee (1S%)
Fumiture & Equipment
'..



99                                    (L    )
Page 2 of 4
UGANDA NATIONAL EDUCATION BOARD
PROPOSED NEQADQUARTES BULDING
SChEDULE OF ACCOWODATION
Novaber 21, 1991
mincESCRlON                                                    ARZA DN SQUARE AIRMNS
Pma I            Pbm 2
1.  rioting Unit                                               I,SO             1'00
Sub Tobl                                              1,'             1.500
2. Doud Room (40 people)                                         84
Muting Room                                                   20
LMar                                                          40
5pt LUbrar                                                   200               200
LXboraoy                                                      20
Tea Room                                                      1s
Sub Toel                                              379
. Bcuvo Secrsay's Offico                                         18
P---m   Scety'                                                12
Tlt                                                            3
S. Det Secreay Office                                         18
Perdsnal ereay                                                 p
Sub Tol d                                      '
4. PRDIRY DATMENT
Dquty Secay's Offio                                            16
Se y                                                           9
PIncp  Seceta's Office                                         IS
S _t                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
6 Auisatce Secries                                             60
Office for Eutries                                             30
Sub Totl                                               139
S. CONDARY DPRMN
Deputy Secretuzy (Rind)                                        16
SNOWubY                                                         9
S Primcipdl AsuIt Secrtaie                                     42
a27
* Aultw Sete Offices                                          80
Office for EntRies                                             30
Sub Total                                              204



100                                 AEL 15 (b)
Pag 3 of 4
6. BUSINESS DEPART RM
Deputy Secetay (He                                                              16
seetay                                                                           9
2 Principal Assistant Seetaries                                                 28
2 Steo-Socretaries                                                              70
7 Assistant Secetaries Offices                                                  70
Office for Entries                                                              20
Subtotal                                                                  161
7. TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT
Deputy Secreuay (He)                                                            16
Sowets                                                                           9
Principal Rseah Officer                                                         14
Steno-Secretary
4 Researc Officers                                                              40
Office for Reseach Assistants                                                   20
Computer Room                                                                   SO
computer Manager                                                                12
Steno-Sectay                                                                     9
Systoms Anayst                                                                  12
3 Progammers                                                                    30
Print Out Checking Office                                                       1S
Enginer Office                                                                   9
Subtotal                                                                 24W
S. TEACHER EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
Deputy Secretary (Head)                                                         16
Secry                                                                            9.
Principal Assistant Secretary                                                   14
Steno-Sectr                                                                      9
3 Assistant Secretaries                                                         30
Office for Entries                                                              20
Subtotl                                                                    98
9. FINANCE & ADMI lTRATION DEPARtTENT
Chief Finance & Administatve Officer                                            16
Seca                                                                             9
Principal Administive Offiecr                                                   14
Steno-Secretay                                                                   9
Senior Administaivo Officer                                                     10
Pdncipal Finac  Officer                                                         14
steno-Secrt                                                                      9
3 Accountants (Audit)                                                           r-
cashier                                                                         10



101                                         (b)
POP 4 of 4
Publicabous Oir                                                             10
PubHcWolu Sale                                                              30
GeraI Store                                                                 30
Guard Room                                                                  10
3 Wask Rooms                                                                18
Subt                                                                  224
Totl Area                                                            3010
Circulaon (20%)                                                       600
Grand Total Area                                                     310



102
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PNCMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEOPE PRJCT
***X SinglePgewitbOneFw
(a) _.... Dev./Pu1~Tb         ,              fi.:, bt
SyilabiwTr::a'."'st                                             2                    .      ;
hctio~a1ateria1sTrainer                                             0.02
(~~~bl1d Lit. Manu8cript ROVAw                I                  0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ...  012
a~i~ Lit. fl1ustmtioz~ Traner2                                     002
E                                                       ........~~ ..
2            '04~~~~~~~~.........
S~~~~~~~~                                                   006
.   .. ..       .. ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                            4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .  .... 
Practical Skills~    .......        .....
'Prctial   k.   ........   .                                                       M
~~    I~~~at.Assee~~~.. .... ..Xper ..007



ANNEX IC
103 Pago 2 of 2



REPUBLUC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACIhER DEVELOPMENT PROJEcT
: Implensntalon Schedule
(Reference nunbermg relates to cost tablkern)
Main C ponnt                 Ref   Acivity                              FY         93          94         95         96          97         98          99         2000
SubCOmpon                    No
pr.JectPreparaon                                                   1I2yr.          _    2           2           2 I        2    _    2      1    2    1    2        -      2
Board Presentation                                   x-
_______ _  Sign Credit Agreement                             x
Credh Effectiveness                                  x
-______ _  Publication of G.P.N.                             x
FacDilies, CivU Works        I
Cor TTC's & Tutor            A      Appoint Consultanis                                   x    x
Training                     B      Site Surveys                                          x    x '
____________ __  Agree Schedule of Requirements              -        x x   _                                                           -     - _
-______ _  Drawing/Documnent Production                      X x
Prepare Pre-Qualirication Doco
xx
-______ _   Pre-Qualilicalinn Evalualion                          xx
_________________                   Prepare Bid Docwments                                     xx
Bidding (LCB)                                             xx          xx   _     x
Bid Evaluation & Award                                          xx         xx          xx
Construction Period                                             xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Prepare Furniure/Equip' Lists                                   xx
Bidding (ICB)                                                   xx
Did Evaluation & Award                                          xx
Delivery                                                              xx         xx         xx
RE,
pq



Main Component             Ref   Activity                              PY       93          94          95          96         97          98          99          20160
Sub-Compotent              No
l____________                                                      I2 yr.        _     2     1    2      l    2     1    2      l    2      1    2      l    2      l       2
Appoint Consultants                                xx
Add Facilites for TDMS     C      Site Surveys                                        xx
Coordinating Pnmary               Agree Schedule of Requirements                      xx
Facilities
Dnawi n/Docunent Production                              xx
_______________            Prepare Pre-4ualirscation Doc'                            xx
Pre-Qualification Evaluation                             xx
Prepare Bid Docuntegts                                   xx
___________ _B_ Didding (LCD)                                                xx
Did Evaluation & Award                                         xx
Consruction Period                                             xx,  xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Reconstnict Cbssrooms       D      Select Locations & Survey                                      xx          xx          xx
PIU Prepare DrawingJDocs                                 xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Place supervisory Staff & Train Coiimnunities            xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
PIU Prepare Bidding Documents                            xx                                                                                         Cn
PIU Procure Duihling Materiabs (ICD)                           xx         xx          xx
Deliver Materias to Sites                                      xx         xx          xx
Construction Period                                                  xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
________ _Pre_ Prpare Fumniture lists                                      xx
Fumiture Bidding (ICB)                                         xx
Bid Evaluation & Award                                         xx
Delivery                                                             xx          xx         xx          xx 
~~~~~~~~~~~@
I'



Main Cponvia                Ref   Activity                                      92         93         94         95         96         97         _          99 =
Sub-Componenl               No
1/12yr.        1    2    1    2    t    2    1    2    1    2    1    2    I    2    1    2
Construacion Management     E      Prepare Bid Docs' for Vehicks                      xx
Bidding (ICB)                                      xx
Bio Evaluation & Award                             xx
_____________________    _ X  =    Delivery                                                 xx
Position Zonal Engineers                                xx
Learning Resorces           3
Prmary Text Books           A      Prepare TideslLists Books Requited                 xx   _                           _    ____
Prepare Bidding Document                           xx
= Bidding (ICB)                                         xx
BW Evaluatin & Award                                    xx.
Delivery                                                     xx
Books & Publishing          4                                                         -                                      _
A     Tecdical Assistance - Foreign                      xx   xx
Tecinical Asisstance - Local                       xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
_________________________          TraJ;ing Courses                                              xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
______ _  = Study Tours                                         xx   xx
____   ___  Prepare Lists, Books & Materials                    xx
Prepare Bidding Documnent                               xx
Bidding (ICB)                                           xx
Did Evaluaiion & Award                                     ax
Delivery                                                     xx
Oblain Equipmem/Furniture                                    xx
Management                  A      Pre Bid Doc's for Vehicles                              xxI
________________________           Bidding ([CB)                                           xx
Bid Evaluatin & Ward                                    xx
Delivery                                                     xx



amponcnt              Ref   Activity                             FY         93          94         95          96         97         98          99         200
Sub.Compo t                  No  I
- 2    1    2         1    2    -      2     1    2    1    2       I    2    I        2
Curricuim Devedopmet          2
A     Revise Curriculum                                         xx   xx
Revise Syllabus                                           Xx   xx
Revise Textbooks                                                xx         xx
Publish New Tex_books                                           xx         xx
Currkulum & Exa_Mnatbon    S            ___
UNEB Capacity                A
Technical Assistance - Foreign                            xx   xx   xx
Technical Assistance - Local                              xx   xx   aa   xx   xx 
____ _T_aining_ _   Training                                            xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Use of Exam Resources        B      Technical Assistance                                      xx     x xx   xx   xx xx           xx   xx   xx
Administrative Efficiency    C      Appoint Consultants                                  xx
Prepare BrieftSch. of Requirements                  xx
Survey Site (Ncw Duildiig)                                xx
DrawingslDocumenl Production                              xx
Prepare Pre-Qualiflcation Doc'
______ _ _  Pre-Qualirication Evaluation               - _ xx    -                  -               _ _
Prepare Did Document                                      xx
________________________   Bidding  (ICB)                                        xx
Constuction Period                                              xx   xx   xx   xx
Prepare PumiturelEquipment Lists                                     xx
___________________             Bidding  (ICB)                                                I      xx
Bid Evalualion & Award                                                     xx
Delivery                                                                         xx
NAEJP                        D      Techancal Assistance - Foreign          -      -           _   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx                                      -    -
Local Expetts                                                  xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
'I
'  .                                          _          _    _    _            _    =            _    _     _    _             5   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Go 



man compoaeu                 Ref   Ac.i               _         _                  93*.  _    94         95          96         9 _                    99         20._
|   9C    _pmo               No      ________.___________
1/2yr.         1    2    1    2    1    2        I    2     1    2      1    2     I    2    I        2
ield Daa COllecti                                                                     xx
_____                __          Training_                                           _     _                           xx   _      _     _    _     _     _ 
______________                      CodiuiDtat_ Entry                                                                      xx
manageueit                   K      Prepare Bid Dec's for Vehicle                       XX
=______ _   Bidding                                   - xx                                      _  _ _
Did EBalualion I Award                              xx                                 x
Primary S_h TDMS             6                                                                xx                           x
Equlet & Vehicks             A      Pepare Bid Doc's for Vehicle                         xx    - _        - _                                                       -
______ __  Bidding (ICB)                                     xx
EvaluaLion & Award                                  xx
Delivery                                       _x                    xx
Books b   Refereca  aM       B      Prepare Bid Docueats                                 xx _
=_____ _B Didding ([CB)                                      -   xxI
________  Evaluim & Award                                    xx  -  -  -  -                          --
=____ _   Delivery                                     _x   xx   xx   xI   xx
C      Prep   Bid Doe's Equi    Malerials                  xx
=__k_ Piding (ICU)                                              x
Bvaluiion & Award                                         x
-______ _Deliery                                     =            x                                ---- -
Tar  Training                D      Prepare Bid Doc's fio Vehics                         xx
Bidding                                             xx
r_________________                  Did Evalualon & Award                                xx
_____________________ _       =     Delivery                                                   xx
Trainig          E                  Trainig  Prograams                                         I   xx                xx xx xx   U    xx   R_
00



mainotuoneja                 Ref   Activity                            FY          93         94          95         96         97          98         99        2VW
Sub-Comnponent               No
Educta     r _Pmnu .gaUnt    7                                        12 yr.       1    2    I      2   1      2     1    2      1    2    1    2      1    2    I         2
Suppott For EPU              A      Technical Assistance - Foreign                       xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Prepare Did Doc's Vehickles                          xx
Bidding (ICB)                                       xx
Evaluation & Award                                  xx   _    _                                                          -      - _
Delivery                                                  xx
Statistics and Data          1      Technical Assistance - Foreign                       KRx  xx   x      xx   xx   X-
Training                                                  XI   xx   xx xax   xx   xx   xx   xx   xs                      -      -     -
Other Dept's n EPU           C      Tedcnical Assistance - Local                         xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Fmance & Budget              D      Tecinical Assistance - Foreign                       xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Technical Assistance - Local                        xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
P.P.U.                       E      Technical Assistance - Local                         xx    xi   __                 __-_-                                     _-    _
Technical Assistance - Foreign                      xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Equipneat & Vehikes          F      Prepare Bid Docs fot Vehils                          xx
-_____ _  Bidding (lCB)                                     xx
Evaluation & Award                                  xx
PPF Activiies                       Delivery                                                  xx          xx
F     TechnIal Assistance - Foremip                              xx   xx   xx
Technical Assistance - Local                              xx   xs   xx   xx   xx
Training                                                        xx   xx                     xx   xx
Sludy Tour                                               Rxx 
PPF Acaiviies                C      Procure Equipment (lId. Shop)                  xx
Tehnical Assistance - Foreign                 xx
Technkal Assistance - Local                    xx
Management Unit              a                                                                      _I________
TDMS                         A      Office Renovation Contract                          xx
Prepre Bid Doc's Equip/Purniture                    xx
= -o°



main Copmoedt              fRef   Acu vity                            IY         93         9_ 96            97                          98         99 200D
|b-Cbm                      Noponent_
1/I2yr.        1  2 _  2  1                     _   1             2          2 _-_                   2
Call Qutadons                                      xx
Evalution & Award                                        xx 1
__       _    __      _      =      Dil                                          _x
Tednical Assitance - Foreign                       xx   xx                           --
Technical Assistance - Lacal                       xx   xx  -xx                           _
Procure Veicles (On. Shop)                               xx         xx         xa
TraitingWoksp               D      Foreign LocalTrainets                               -    'xx   xx |       xx       xx xx   x| xx |
Project hplmetiaon          9A    Oimce RenovauinContaCna       _                      xx   -  |     I
GenealExpenses              A      Procure FuriturelEquip. (Loc. Sh)              -    xx   -    -                                                               -     -
Manageme  Department        B      Technkal Assistance - Foreign                             XI   xx   XI   X1   xx
Ptocuent Deparment          C      Technical Assitce- Foe|ing                                xx| xxI  xx   xx   xx
Prure Vehicle (ht. Sh)                                   xx
|Fmance & Adminisaradon     D      Technical Assistance - Foreign                            xx   xx   xx   xx   xI
_______________                     Procure FumitumclEquip. (Loc. Sit)                        xx
Consnction Depanment        R      Technical Assistance - Foreign                                       xx   xx   xx   xx   xx |
Techbical Assistance- Local                              xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   xx   Ux   xx
Procure rimiture/Equip. (loc.Sh)                         xx
Procure Vehicles (ht. Sh)                                xx
PPF Activities              F      Tecinical Assistance - Foreign                x_
Technical Assistance - Local                  xx
Procure EquipTFurniture (Loc. Sh)             xx
PPF MIS Accounts            C      Technical Assistance - loreign              1 x
Technical Assistance - L Ical                 xx
Procure Equipment (Int.Sh)                                 1Ix
PPF Acdivies                       Procure lnst Materials (Lc. Sb)              |
.   ,                                 .    .    .     .    .    .    .             .    .    .    .      .    .    .        .i



MaiA Component              Ref   Activiy                            1W         93         94         95         96               9                          2
Sub-Coot                    No 
Studi.                      le                                   Iflyr.          l    2    l    2    1    2    1    2    '    2    1    2    l    2    l             2
Secondary Schdl Study       A      Teduiical Assiance - Foreign                            xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
Tnining                                                 xx   xx   xx   xz   xx
-    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1'1
a pq



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACIER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
IwamUao  Of                                       Indlt*Io
-                     M ams            I _    _     _    _ _     _     _    _ ._            _ _     _ _     _ _     _ _      _ _
DlovIG RImMARY SCoL TACcHG AND MAAGEM_
Improved Primary    Upgrade Existing Primary    0 Development of selection guidelines.     General Indicators
Facilities          Institulions                crileria and procedures for PTCs and
coordinating schools in TDMS program.      0 Increased earolment, improved reeamion and examination
performance and higher trasition rate to secondaty in
o Selection of districts and PTCs for TDMS   upgradod schools.
program
Soccilic Indicators
o Mapping of facilities and schedule of
accomnodation at each PTC.                 o Addition aualitv school places for approximately 75000
students per year. About 150,000 quality places by the
o School renovation at the approximate rate    mid-lenn evaluation.
of 500 classrooms per year in each year of
the programn.
Increased Primary   Construction of new         0 Identirtcation of coordinating and outreach   General Indicators
Capacity             Primary Faciities          schools in the selected districts
o Increased enrolment, improved rtention and exauination
o Construction of approximately 2,460 new    performance, on-time completion of P7 and higher
classrooms in each of 8 districts.         transition rate to secondary in upgraded schools.
Speir& Indicalors
o Incrcase overall capacity by approximately 13,O00 school
places. About 5,000 placse by the mid4erm evauatio.
o Completed constion of 2,460 new lams. About
1,000 classrooms by the mid-term evaluation.



Upgraded Teacher    Construction and/or       o Establishment of Task Force and Work  O Construction and Rehabilitation of up to 16 PTCs
Training Facilities    renovation of Primary  Plan for TDMS system                    confonning to model PTC specifications. About 5 PTCs by
Teachers Colleges                                                  the mid-term evaluation.
o Selection of PTCs to be upgraded in targe
districts (or catchment areas).
o Design of Model PTC for TDMS system
O Dctailed survey of selected PTC facilities,
staffing, fumiture and curriculum in selected
districts and construction/reuovation plans
for UP TO 16 PTCs in IDA S Districts.
Improved Teacher-   Upgrading of Coordinating   o Specifications for Coordinating Primary  ° Construction and Rehabilitation of approximately 200
Support             Primary Schools          schools                                  coordinating primary schools, including training moms,
Infrastructure                                                                        offices, staff housing, furniture and equipment. About 100
o Selection coordinating primary schools in   coordinating primary schools by the mid-term evaluation.
each district (catchment area).
o Upgrade Coordinating Schools
Greater availability   Provision of textbooks  0 List of required primary textbooks and  o Procurement and distribution of 893,420 book sets in all
of learning                                   teacher guides in four subjects for four  districts. About 400,000 by the mid-ter nevaluation.
materials           Provision of supplementary   grades.
materials                                                         0 Procurement and distr'bution of 72,480 teacher guides to
o List of supplementary books for three  all practicing teachers and PTC students, in all schools and
Provision of teacher guides   grades.                             PTCs throughout the country. About 35,000 by the mid-
term evaluation.
o Design and delivery of training in syllabus
development, writing, and illustration.  0 Training of teachers and other potential writers and
illustrators.
O Design of book management courses and
development of supporting materials     0 Training of writers and illustrators for syllabi, textbooks
and children's literature
o Establishment of Textbook Unit under the
PIU.                                    .
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ep



Enhanced capacity    Revitalize Local Printing  O Book Scclor and Book Life Study       0 Policy changes by the GOU in areas of publishing and
to pmduce          and Publishing                                                       tariffs on malerials and equipmcnt
iranluctlonal                                 0 Training and Study tours for staff of MOE
materials.                                    Textbook Unit.                            0 Incrcase in thc number of locally produced titles each
year. About tS0 new tides by the mid-term evaluation.
O Dcvelopment of modules for BISL degree
in EASL                                  0 Increase in the total shilling value of locally-pmduced
school books sold each year.
o Development of extension courses by
EASL and TU                              0 Increased pat ticipation in publishing and printing courses.
O Upgrading EASL courses in printing and    c Rcduction in the dcpemidence on foreign publishers
publishing.
0 Increased employment in the local publishing industry.
O Establish book vending facilities at district
level                                    0 Increases in the average useable life of locally-produced
lext books.
O Design of monitoring program for local
book vending facilities.
More efficient use    Rationalization of teacher    0 Criteria and list of one core PTC per  0 Reduction in number of PTCs to less than forty.
of teacher training    training system        district or catchmenw area.
resources                                                                               0 Increase avcrage enrolment to about 300 students per
Transiional plan to phase    0 National plan for 20-25 TDMS colleges to  institution, depending upon local demand fro trained  a
out PTCs                  covcr the country                        teachers.
O Closing of non-sclected core PTCs or
elimination of all government support
O Selection of coordinating schools in all
districts
0
w 
o



mpve the quality   Upgrade facilities and      0 Develop PTC tutor (raining program at    O All PTC tutors wodd complete Grade V training.
and effectiveness of  equipment at core PTCs   two new PTCs
PTC g-.                                                                                   o Revision of Grade I1 curicdulum.
Upgrade peservice teacher  0 DTE to be moved from ITEK to the new
trainig program staff      institutions                               o Increase in proportion of staff lime spent in In-service
activities.
Upgrade pre-service        0 PTC sf o have increased involvement
curriculum and content     in in-service programs and to increase field
visits
Icrease linkage of pre-
service program to the
schools
Deacrease the       Use TDMS model to           0 Assignment of primary inspectors to PtCs   0 Annual increase in number of leachers completing
number of untrained  expand out-reach and                                                 upgrading program.
teachers            upgrading programs          0 Design of new in-service and vacalion
time upgrading pmgram                     o Reduction in pereentage of untrained leachers to specified
target in the mid-term evaluation.
o Develop targets for reducing number of
untrained teachers
Upgrade the skills    Use TDMS model to         0 Development of training materials for   o Increase in the number of field visits by inspectors and
and effectiveness of   provide additional support   practicing teachers                   PTC tutors in TDMS districts.
practicing teachers.   to practicing teachers
o Development of incentive program for    0 Improvements in pedagogical practice and substantive
participation in in-seice programs        content by teachers in TDMS districts.
o Develop criteria, instruments and methods   o Improvements in average student examination
for assessing pedagogical practice and    performance in TDMS districts.
substanitive conient of classroom instruction
Strengthen district    Use TDMS model to        0 Assignment of ADEOs responsibie for     0 Improved administration of district-level'funds, accounts,
and scbool          deliver management          training to Core PTCs                     materials distribution, etc. in TDMS districts.
management          training to DEOs, school
heads, PTAs and School     o Development of training materials and   .0 Increased community participation through PIA and
Management Comnittees      handbooks                                 Management committees in TDMS districts.
o Delivery of training services           0 Improved accowning and reductions in ghost
tcaches'and other anomalies in TDMS districts.
o Improved personnel administration, lower absenteeism.
higher teacher morale in TDMS districts.
0i 4



ENHANCING MOES STMATEGIC FUNCTIONS
Upgrade             Design aid Install new      o Assessment of administrative and record    O Installation of personnel records, auditing and accounting
Administrative      personnel records and       system procedures and design of new system   systems with written procedure manuals and training.
Systems             accounting system
0 Assessment of management training needs   0 Computerization of all key ninistry functions
Computerization of central
administrative functions   0 Assessment of MIS requirenents
Management training of
middle and senior staff
Upgrade Middle      Training Programs           0 Training of senior management - ten     0 Improved managerial practice.
and Senior                                      workshops of two days duration for
Management and                                  approximately 15 participants.            0 Higher staff morale and lower attrition
Key Support Staff
o Training for middle managenment - ten   0 Improved administrative effidency
workshops of two durations for 40
participants
O Support Staff training - ten one-day
worksilops for 50 participants
Strengthen Planning   Upgrade Education         0 Staff training in key areas such as     0 Annual execution of sciool census and presentation of  0'
Capacity            Planning Unit (UPU)         statistics, data processing, planning, finance    statistical reports
and budgeting and project preparation
Add Project Preparation                                              0 Preparation of project documents and support to donor
and Research Capacity to   0 Technical Assistante in key areas listed  organizations in development of projects within framework
EPU                        above                                     of governmnents five year investment plan
o Vehicles and equipment                  0 Improved policy analysis
O Increased utilization of other data sources (exam results,
national census of population, etc.) for policy fonnation
O Improved monitoring and evaluation of development
projects
O Summative evaluation of investment projects with
assessment of overall project impact
SE



Higher quality and    Curriculum Reform.       o Establishment of syllabus committees for    0 Revised syllabus in four core subjects and twnone core
more relevant                                  four core subjects and two non-core subject   subject areas.
Primary Curriculum   Training of writers.      areas.
0 Revised textbooks in four core subjects (to manuscript
o Annual meetings of subject panels and   level).
design and Iesting of revised currculum in
six subjects.                             0 Revised teacher guides in six subjects.
o Workshops to train and support syllabus
writcrs in the defined subjects.
o Systems established for approval of
textbooks and supplementary materials.
Improved national    Examination Reform.       0 Establish national curiuclum committees    o Revised Curricllum.
examinations and                               for each examined subject.
greater utlization of   Introduction of Continuous                                        0 Introduction of continuous assessment in schools.
exam results.       Assessment.                0 Dcvelopment of guidelines for continuous
assessmcnt and a plan for implementation.  0 Increased proportion of examination items examining
Upgrading UNEB                                                       higher-order cognitive and problem-solving skills.
Facilities.                o Develop program for training of
cxamination staff.                        0 Inclusion of continuous assessment scores in overall
Dissemination of exam                                                student assessment and criteria for admission to higher
results and suggestions for    0 Develop plan for building new UNEB  levels of the education system.
improved teaching practice.  facilities and printing capacity.
o Upgraded UNEB building and printing equipment.
o Teacher Newsletter with exam results and
recommendations on improving teaching.
Improved            National Asscssment of     0 Dcvclop a steering coinmitice for ehe    0 National asscssmcnt of educational performance, evcry
insiruction utlizing    Educational Performance  NALEB1.                                 three years.
examination results   (NAEP).
o Technical assistance and training of
National Asscssment staff.
Ii



Expand Project      Upgrade and Increase the   o Establishment of District TDMS          0 Timely project implementation on all reponing; including
Implementation      Efficiency of the Project  coordinating commituees.                  preparation of semi annual and annual progress reports;
Capacity            Implcmenataion Unit (PIU)                                            annualwork programns; and documents required for the mid-
o Establishing Zonal Construction Units in   term review.
each of Ihe TDMS Districts
o Implement a system of sharing technical
staff and resources across projects
o Recruit project managers to managing
individual projects or clusters of projects
Conduct Critical    Training and Technical     o Terms of Reference for:                 0 Timely delivery and quality of speciric studies.
Studies and         Assistance for relevant
Strengthen Research  sections within EPU and          0 School Mapping Exercise
and Analysis        PIU                               0 Costs and Finance Exercise
Capacity                                              ° Secondary Ed Sub-Sector Studies
Strengthening of                  0 Book Sector Policy Study
procurement capacity for          0 NAEP Study
research and policy analysis                                          _



ANDKL12
119                                  Page 1 of2
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require 15 weeks for the first year. 12 staff-weeks per year during the next
three project years, and 10 staff-weeks per year thereafter). The supervision of each component, including
review of procurement decisions and of progress reports, will be carried out by the task manager and
procurement specialist of the sector concerned under the responsibility of AF2PH.
2.    Borrowers Contribution to Supervision;
a.    Progress Reports are to be submitted in mid-February and mid-August each year by the PIU
which will coordinate report preparation by the various project agencies.
b.    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Director, PIU. An
implementation review workshop with the participation of the various project agencies will be
held in mid-February every year, convened by the Director, PIU.
c.    The PIU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision mission, and
for providing information required by missions. Missions will nonnally be accompanied by
senior staff of the PIU. The PIU will be informed in advance which project components will
be covered during a mission, and representatives from the implementing unit of the Ministry
of Education and Sports concerned will nonnally accompany the mission.
d.    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the
Minister of Education and Sports, with the participation of the Director, PIU, and the heads
of the project implementing units of the participating agencies.



120
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approx.           Activities                Expected Skill Requirements       Staff Input
Dates                                                                        (Staff-weeks)
8/93    Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  12
(Project Launce Workshop)    development/capacity building, and
Procurement, Disbursement.
2/94    Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  8
(Annual Implementation     development/capacity building, and
Review Workshop)           Procurement, Disbursement.
8/94    Supervision Mission         Education, Implementation Specialist      4
2/95    Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  8
(Annual Implementation     development/capacity building, and
Review Workshop)           Procurement, Disbursement.
8/95    Supervision Mission         Education, Implementation Specialist.      4
2/96    Mid-term Project Review     Education, Financial analysis, Lnstitutional  8
development/capacity building and
Procurement, Disbursement.
8/96    Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist    4
2/97    Supervision Mission         Education, Institutional Development/      5
(Annual Implementation     capacity building, */Financial analyst
Review Workshop - reduced   economist
scope)                   ____l
8/97    Supervision Mission          Education, Financial analysis/economics,  5
(Preparation work for the   Institutional development/capacity
Project Completion Report)    building, and Procurement,
Disbursement.



UGANDA                                                      SIUVAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION
AND                                                                              OoOo                       ob~
TEACHER DEVELOPMENT    Kaak                                                                         #d)Oo
PROJECT               ~         'RA' MOYO L
m   UNEB                                                                           KITGUtO.                     KOTIDO     /
UNDER ThIS PROJECT ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AickUI KITGUM
PROPOSED SITES OF TTC'S                    h'                      GU               6 AdOTIihw
SITES OF TTC'S TO BE                                                GUW"--
A&I     FINANCED UNDER
IDA EDUCATION IV
-     PRMARtY BITUMENNE1
PRIMAFrY GRAVEL                                                                              R
-4+--RAILROADS                                             PM                                                                     O T61
*   DISTRICT CAPITALSMAIDSRO                                                                                                                       2
Alb      ~MASINDIV       Ki- n*o
DISTRCT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                               4COW
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               HIA -Lake                                  -                                 M      '~
ib, the ~~~~~~~ of ,eod.,. qo\d~OG                             tUER
Th  idBnkeotsoThwd      .   OTRAJ/
Bank Qoop The d ;eoons                                       UED                                            IJ
th;d iend         .,                                       q-..-,,.MUBENDE
w.dgemot oo5, ql ttso               KABAROLE                                                   MKN
ony f~tat,y  on aY -dlonde
On ocoptance of s~h hondriw
d,  KASI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ae                                                                                    EY
I.                                                                                                            RWAN~~~~~~~~~~~BRRAMSAASDAN
0\ BUSHE2                                      0~~~~~0~ . KAA0AL   C0MJSTAAAI
0~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               0AUE 3PIA3



