Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23686
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24930)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$52.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
02/15/2002
Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (U Sh)
1710 = US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1     June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA                                                Continuous Assessment
cc                                                Coordinating Schools
EPD                                               Education Planning Department
EPU                                               Education Planning Unit
ESAC                                              Education Sector Adjustment Credit
EMIS                                              Education Management and Information System
ESIP                                              Education Strategic Investmnent Plan
GDP                                               Gross Domestic Product
GOU                                               Government of Uganda
GER                                               Grmss Enrollment Rate
HIPC                                              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
HOTS                                              Higher Order Thinking Shills
ICB                                               International Competitive Bidding
IDA                                               International Development Association
ICR                                               Implementation Completion Report
IMU                                               Instructional Materials Unit
ITEK                                              Institute of Teacher, Kyarmbogo
MOES                                              Ministry of Education and Sports
MTBF                                              Medium Term Budget Framework
NAEP                                              National Assessment of Education Performance
NRM                                               National Resistance Movement
NCDC                                              National Curriculum Development Center
NGO                                               Nongovernmental Organizations
NRP                                               Northern Reconstruction Project
OED                                               Operations Evaluation Department
OS/OC                                             Outreach Schools/Classrooms
PAPSCA                                            Program forAlleviation of Poverty & Social Cost of Adjustment
PAU                                               Policy Analysis Unit
PCRs                                              Project Completion Report
PETDP                                             Primary Education Teacher Development Project
PIU                                               Project Implementation Unit
PLE                                               Primary Leaving Exam
PRSC                                              Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PTC                                               Primary Teachers College
SUPER                                             Support to Ugandan Primary Education Reform
SWAPs                                             Sector-Wide Approaches
TA                                                Technical Assistance
TDMS                                              Teacher Development and Management System
TOR                                               Terms of Reference
UNEB                                              Uganda National Examinations Board
UPE                                               Universal Primary Education
USAID                                             United States Agency for Intemational Development
SAR                                               Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:              James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:             Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                  Paud Murphy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              15
6. Sustainability                                                                  16
7. Bank and Borrower Perforinance                                                  17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                23
10. Additional Information                                                        24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               34
Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              38
Annex 8. Letter of Sector Policy                                                   38
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation: Executive Summary                                  39
Annex 10. Basic Primary Education Indicators                                       52
MAP IBRD 25052RI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 24930-UG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education and Teacher
Development Project for the Republic of Uganda. The credit was approved by the Board of Directors on
May 13, 1993 and the legal documents were signed on June 22, 1993. It became effective on November
10, 1993. The total IDA financing is SDR 38 million (US$52.6 million).
The ICR was prepared by Penelope Bender (Consultant) and Harriet Nannyonjo (Senior
Operations Officer, AFMUG), under the supervision of Paud Murphy (Lead Education Specialist,
AFTH1), with contributions and support from Debbie Peterson (Team Assistant, AFTH1). It was
reviewed by Bruce Jones (Senior Economist, AFTH1) and then at the formal review meeting.
This report was prepared following a final supervision mission in March 2001, comprising of
Harriet Nannyonjo (Mission Leader), George Bethell (Consultant - Examinations, Ireland Aid), Benjamin
Makau (Consultant - Teacher Development, European Union), Lawrence Dowdall (Consultant - Civil
Works, DfID), Victor Levine (Consultant - Education Planning, DflD), Robert Langley Smith (Consultant
- Curriculum, DfID) and Tony Read (Consultant - Instructional Materials, DfID). The ICR is based on a
review of project documents and reports, discussions with various stakeholders and field visits.






Project ID: P002953                                    |Project Name: PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC
Team Leader: Patrick D. Murphy                          TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: February 15, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                         LIC/TFNumber: IDA-24930
Country/Department: UGANDA                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/26/1990                            Effective: 09/20/1993        11/10/1993
Appraisal:  10/29/1991                              MTR: 02/22/1996          09/11/1996
Approval:  05/13/1993                            Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT/MOES
Other Partners: United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V.V. Jaycox
Country Manager:     James W. Adams                          Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                    Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas
Team Leader at ICR:  Patrick D. Murphy                       Nat Colletta
ICR Primary Author:  Penelope A. Bender
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The years preceding the identification of the Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
(PETDP) were years of transition in Uganda. Between 1971 and 1985, the country suffered from civil war
and mass murder, the emigration of skilled workers, government mismanagement and economic decay.
Schools continued to function only through the efforts of parents and communities. The education sector's
administrative and management systems were largely inoperative, resulting in extreme scarcities of



instructional materials and insufficient school infrastructure. Government-financed salaries for teachers
were well below acceptable levels (approximately 10% of the living wage), and parents were obliged to
provide supplemental payments.
By the mid-i 980s, the National Resistance Movement was in power, security had improved and primary
school enrollment had doubled. However, newly recruited teachers were usually unqualified and
instructional materials remained scarce. It was difficult for pre-service teacher education to attract
candidates, as salaries were still low and working conditions were difficult. Teacher and student
absenteeism were high, infrastructure was often underused and resource management was inefficient.
Government recurrent expenditure on education as a percentage of total Government recurrent expenditure
declined in the late 1980s, as did the sector's share of Government capital expenditure. In 1987, the gross
enrollment rate (GER) in primary education was 79%. Sixty-five percent of teachers were untrained, and
only about 15% of students had access to instructional materials. During this time, IDA provided funding
for the restoration of sector infrastructure and the development of institutional capacity through the Third
Education Project (Cr. 1329-UG).
In late 1987, the Minister of Education established an Education Policy Review Commission. Its main
recommendations (Annex 6, Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)) were to:
(i) achieve Universal Primary Education (UPE), defined as universal enrollment in grades 1-5, not
later than 2001-02;
(ii) improve instructional quality;
(iii) address gender disparities;
(iv) strengthen the relationship between schooling and work;
(v) add Kiswahili as a compulsory subject in primary school, with the same emphasis as English
and mathematics; and
(vi) increase central Government sector financing and shift it towards the primary cycle, while
shifting parental financing away from the primary cycle.
The Government of Uganda's (GoU) Letter of Sector Policy, issued in 1993 (Annex 8, SAR), had similar
objectives, including attaining UPE by 2003. At this time, external assistance was sought to support the
primary education subsector and specifically to reforn teacher education.
Country Assistance Strategy
The Country Brief of December 1992 indicated that the Bank would assist the GoU in (a) strengthening
macroeconomic stability through improving revenue collection, better public expenditure management,
monetary restraint and a fully liberalized exchange and trade system; (b) improving the climate for private
sector development through deregulation, public enterprise privatization, infrastructure rehabilitation and
strengthening the role of financial intermediaries; (c) strengthening the human resource base by expanding
access to and improving the quality of education and health care; (d) stemming environmental degradation;
and (e) improving the management of external aid. At this time, the Bank was shifting its emphasis from
the short-term objectives of security, stability and rehabilitation to the support of an economic environment
that would be conducive to poverty reduction through the promotion of long-term growth and improved
living conditions.
Other Bank-supported programs
Fourth Education Project (Cr. 1965-UG)
The Fourth Education Project was approved in November 1988 and closed in June 1994, overlapping with
the PETDP. The goals of the project were to: (a) support the GoU's educational rehabilitation efforts;
(b) assist the GoU in piloting a revolving textbook fund to ensure the continual replenishment of
- 2 -



instructional materials; (c) strengthen the units of the Ministry of Education responsible for improving and
monitoring project quality and implementation; and (d) help prepare a more extensive project (the PETDP)
to implement the Govermment's emerging sector strategy. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
found the results to be satisfactory (there was no OED audit).
Program for Alleviation of Poverty and Social Cost ofAdjustment (PAPSCA) (Cr. 2088-UG)
PAPSCA was approved in February 1990 and closed in September 1995, also overlapping with the
PETDP. Components included the renovation of primary schools, support for orphans and widows,
provision of health services, income-generating activities, construction of small-scale infrastructure and
water and sanitation facilities, strengthening of the government's social planning capacities and support for
project administration. This project was rated marginally satisfactory by the ICR, which noted that 76% of
classrooms constructed were incomplete. OED rated the project unsatisfactory, and called the
accomplishments of the education rehabilitation component "dismal."
Northern Reconstruction Project (NRP) (Cr. 2362-UG)
The NRP was approved in May 1992 and closed in September 1998. Its main objective was the short and
medium-term reconstruction of essential economic and social infrastructure in less insecure areas of
northern Uganda. Components included highway rehabilitation, telecommunications, education, feeder
roads, community action, water supply and sanitation, agriculture, and support for coordination,
monitoring and evaluation. Education component activities included the renovation of primary schools,
teacher training and technical training. The project was rated marginally satisfactory and Bank
performance was rated unsatisfactory by OED, due to design and supervision issues.
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was approved in March 1998 and closed in December
2000. It was designed to provide resources to assist the GoU in meeting the challenges of the 1997 UPE
initiative (abolition of school fees/doubling of enrollment). This was to be accomplished through the
improved allocation of public resources, more efficient use of resources, increased availability of
instructional inputs and improved sector management. The ICR rated the project highly satisfactory, due to
its success in providing resources, contributing to policy development and establishing a framework for
coordinated donor support. OED downgraded the rating to satisfactory, due to concerns about
sustainability and declining educational quality linked to the introduction of UPE.
Concurrent programs supported by other donors
United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
USAID parallel financing for the PETDP consisted of nonproject assistance and support for the
establishment of the Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS). The Support to Ugandan
Primary Education Reform program (SUPER) (US$ 25 million) was to finance curriculum revision in the
primary teacher colleges (PTC); staff reformed PTC and establish activity programs for these institutions;
develop a network of coordinating and outreach schools/classrooms (CC and OS/OC); reform pre-service
teacher education for new teachers; provide in-service professional development for selected untrained
teachers; develop and deliver in-service "refresher" courses for all teachers; train teacher educators
("tutors"); and develop and deliver pre-service and professional development courses for Head Teachers.
The project began in 1992 and was to be completed in 1999. An additional US$83 million of nonproject
assistance was to have been provided on the condition that the GoU improve teacher compensation and
local-level decision-making in the sector and provide a sustainable supply of instructional materials. The
GoU was able to meet these conditions and the financing was provided.
- 3 -



Primary Education and Teacher Development Project (PETDP) Objectives
The Government of Uganda intended 'to pursue its long-term objectives (access, quality, and relevance) in
the education sector by reforming the pattern of resource mobilization and allocation in the education
sector, and through appropriate institutional reform and strengthening. Within this framework, the Primary
Education and Teacher Development Project sought to assist the Government by monitoring the pattern of
resource mobilization and allocation in the sector, and by financing specific investment expenditure in the
related areas of primary education and primary teacher training (taking into account activities to be
financed by USAID), and in strengthening strategic functions of the Ministry of Education and Sports'
(SAR,p. 15).
Assessment of Development Objectives
The project was prepared and appraised at a time when Uganda's process of recovery from the prolonged
economic, social and institutional deterioration of the Amin and Obote II periods (1971-86) was still at an
early stage. Project objectives were consistent with sector priorities at the time and with the broad strategy
outlined in the Bank's Country Brief of 1992. The sector was urgently in need of increased financing, and
reallocation between educational levels was a necessary part of increasing access and quality at the primary
level. The plan to strengthen primary education matched the Government's request for external assistance,
as did the emphasis on teacher development.
However, the objectives were vague and failed to fully respond to the GoU's stated decision to implement
UPE. First, the objectives focused more on processes than on outcomes. There is no mention of ultimate
objectives (such as "improving access to education"), only of the means by which such objectives could be
attained. No targets were given for the first objective of resource mobilization/reallocation. Second, the
GoU's policy statements explicitly discussed implementation timetables for UPE that fell within the planned
project implementation timetable. Despite these clear policy statements, and the Bank's pledges at the 1990
World Conference on Education for All in Jomtien, Thailand to support and encourage universal access,
PETDP project objectives did not address or even endorse the GoU's UPE goals. This lack of attention and
a consequent lack of planning reduced project's ability to respond to the GoU's decision to promote UPE
through the abolition of school fees when it was announced in 1996 and operationalized in 1997.
Risks
The SAR described four potential risks: (a) unreliable government financing; (b) limitations in Ministry of
Education and Sports' (MOES) capacity; (c) reluctance of District officials to support teacher education
reforms; and (d) curriculum overloading stemming from proposals in the Government White Paper to add
vocationalization, Kiswahili and community service to the primary curriculum. Substantial increases in
government and donor financing over the project's lifetime reduced the first risk, and financing of
instructional materials remained problematic. The second risk proved the most serious, and project design
may have delayed its resolution. The project was complex for a Ministry recovering from years of unrest
and decline. The project identification team was aware of this, and developed a short-term training
program financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to upgrade middle and senior management.
Unfortunately, this training program did not continue through the project and staff turnover decreased its
impact. In addition, the team chose to mitigate the risk by expanding the extra-ministerial Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). This decision ran counter to the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Third
Education Project, which stressed the 'need to establish and strengthen project management as an
institutionalized part of the ministry concemed' (1989, p. 14).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged, despite tremendous changes in sector policies and enrollment rates.
- 4 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had two components: (a) Improving Primary School Teaching and Management and
(b) Enhancing Strategic Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) Functions.
Component 1: Improving Primary School Teaching and Management (US$38.2 million)
The goal of this component was to improve teaching and learning in primary schools. The main activity
consisted of supporting the GoU in the establishment of a Teacher Development and Management System
(TDMS) in 10 of Uganda's then 38 districts (there are now 56). The TDMS was to consist of a system of
up to 16 reformed or "core" Primary Teacher Colleges (PTC), each of which would be linked to about 25
"coordinating" schools (CC), each of which in turn would be linked to a surrounding network of about 10
"outreach" schools (OC). The core PTC were to have four tasks: (a) pre-service training of new teachers;
(b) in-service upgrading of practicing, previously untrained, teachers through vacation courses and distance
education; (c) in-service training to bring new methods, textbooks and learning materials to teachers in the
schools; and (d) management training and support for head teachers. The following sub-components were
planned:
Subcomponent la included curriculum revision for PTC (Grade III), staffing the PTC and establishing
their activity program, developing the network of coordinating and outreach schools, conductoag reformed
pre-service training, in-service upgrading for selected untrained teachers and in-service refresher courses
for all teachers; the training of tutors (teacher educators); in-service and pre-service training for head
teachers; and establishing a TDMS section in the MOES PIU. IDA financing was designated only for
salary payments and other support for staff working in the TDMS unit of the PIU.
Subcomponent lb consisted of renovating and constructing facilities for PTC, coordinating schools and
outreach schools. 20% of primary school classrooms in the outreach schools of each participating PTC
were to have been renovated, except where this had been achieved by the PAPSCA or the NRP. In total,
2,640 primary schools, 200 coordinating primary schools, up to 16 PTCs and one tutor training wing (this
was changed to two shortly after project effectiveness) were to have been rehabilitated or constructed. IDA
was to finance almost all expenditures in this subcomponent. It was intended that communities would
provide some support, through in-kind contributions.
Subcomponent lc consisted of the provision of textbooks and teachers' guides for English, mathematics,
science and social studies, in quantities sufficient to achieve student:book ratios of 3:1 in the first four
grades of primary school. Supplemental reading materials (300 titles for grades 5-7) would also be
purchased and 10 additional titles for these grades would be developed. Sufficient quantities would be
purchased to provide 80 books per school, which were to be managed through book boxes and/or the
establishment of primary school librries. A book management course was to be included in the pre-service
and in-service teacher training programs. Nine hundred thousand textbooks, 95,000 teacher guides and
16,500 sets of supplemental reading materials were to have been provided. IDA financing was to have
been used for the review of procurement procedures.
Subcomponent Id planned to revitalize private sector publishing and printing. This was to have been
accomplished through technical assistance, study tours, training courses for the private sector and the
National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), support for the East African School of Librarianship
and studies and the development of action plans. IDA was to finance all subcomponent expenditures.
- 5 -



Component 2: Enhancing Strategic MOES functions (US$14.4 million)
Subcomponent 2a was designed to strengthen planning and policy analysis. The Education Planning Unit
(EPU) was to have been strengthened through computerization, technical assistance and training and the
provision of equipment; a new National Assessment of Educational Performance (NAEP) was to have
been developed and conducted every three years; and policy studies for textbooks and secondary education
development were to have been conducted.
Subcomponent 2b was designed to upgrade management and inforrnation systems through training,
materials development, the development of a training and diffusion network using the TDMS approach and
the development of in-service management training to allow the TDMS unit of the MOES to oversee the
development of training at all levels of the system.
Subcomponent 2c was to have supported reforms to primary school curricula and exams. Curricular
reform included the development of syllabi for English, mathematics, science and social studies for grades
1-4; the development of criteria for textbooks and the training of writers; the writing of textbooks and
teachers' guides; the supply of supplementary reading materials for grades 5-7; the training of children's
literature writers, illustrators and designers; the writing of children's literature; and the procurement and
distribution of the publications for use in schools. Exam reform was to have been accomplished through
the establishment of national curriculum committees for each examined subject to monitor validity; the
introduction of a system of continuous assessment to ensure the teaching of subjects other than those
traditionally examined; increasing the number of exam questions testing higher-order cognitive skills;
providing detailed feedback to teachers on pupil performance on the Primary Leaving Exam (PLE); and
creating systems of formal information exchange between the Inspectorate, the PTC, the NCDC and the
UNEB. A research program was to have been introduced to monitor the qualitative aspects of
examinations. UNEB's capacity was to have been enhanced through the provision of a new office and a
secure printing facility, technical assistance, improved administration and modem equipment.
Subcomponent 2d was planned to increase project implementation capacity. The PIU was to be
reorganized with a project manager for each donor-assisted project. The Construction Department was to
expand with the addition of 14 zonal engineers and related staff. Technical assistance, equipment, vehicles,
renovation of additional office space and staff salaries were to have been financed.
IDA was to finance all Component 2 expenditures.
Assessment of project components
Component 1, subcomponent la: The establishment of the TDMS was directly linked to the project's
objectives of providing support for primary education and teacher training and of strengthening sector
institutions. It was based on three important components of effective schools: school management,
teachers and community involvement. However, although there was considerable consultation among the
stakeholders, including teachers, to decide what teachers should learn through the programs, this was not
linked to an analysis of common student learning issues or the Ugandan classroom context. The in-service
programs were top-down, developed as a set of modules to be prepared and delivered; and programs for
previously trained teachers were short-term, "one shot" sessions, which were not based on current
classroom realities. Rather than whole-school approaches, which are generally seen in the literature as the
key to improving teaching and learning, programs were based on improving the teaching practice of
individual teachers. This vision of TDMS as a "channel to deliver innovations to the field" (project files,
May 1999), reduced ownership and relevance of innovations. No formative evaluations were planned or
conducted, making it difficult to readjust programs in response to changing circumstances, knowledge and
- 6 -



results. Indicators for this sub-component were mixed: quantitative targets were provided for most
activities, but there were no qualitative targets. The project preparation team was aware that the MOES'
capacity was insufficient to implement the system and chose to hire external staff to compensate. However,
there was no plan for the eventual transfer of management to the MOES.
Subcomponent lb: The design of the construction program relied on extemally financed staff and initially
used centrally procured materials and supervision (despite difficulties with this system during PAPSCA),
and did not plan for long term, sustainable construction mechanisms. Building designs were judged
inadequate partway through the project and necessitated re-tendering for upgrading. Regarding classroom
construction, plans for community support were unclear in the SAR. The detail that was provided again
stemmed from unsuccessful PAPSCA approaches. There were no plans to provide latrines or water, both
of which have been shown to be important factors in girls' access and persistence. Finally, there were no
plans for community-based or government-provided maintenance of the new or renovated infrastructure.
Indicators were clear.
Subcomponent Ic: Plans for the provision of textbooks and supplemental instructional materials were clear
and had the potential to significantly improve teacher practice and student learning. The design of the
supplementary instructional materials subcomponent was based on the importance of expanding children's
access to print, which, as preparation documents note, is supported by a substantial body of research. The
component emphasized the importance of both narrative and informative text, and of developing a vibrant
publishing industry for young readers in the region. The targeted student:textbook ratio was insufficient
(3:1), but would still have improved existing conditions. The plans for book boxes and school libraries
were innovative and could have significantly increased students' access to instructional materials.
Subcomponent Id: Support for the development of private sector publishing and printing was innovative
and comprehensive. However, the multiple titles system, with school-level choice, was ambitious, and it is
unclear that the schools and other administrative levels in Uganda had sufficient capacity to manage it, or
that it was the most effective approach to textbook provision (although very valid for supplementary
materials). Plans for technical assistance and training for publishers, writers and other partners in the
sector were also innovative, with the potential to greatly increase local capacity and reduce dependence on
foreign publishers.
Component 2, subcomponent 2a: The need to improve planning and policy analysis was accurately
identified at the time of project preparation. National assessment is an important part of educational
planning, and the policy studies were important for the immediate (book policy) and medium-term
(secondary education) development of the sector. However, the design included large amounts of long-term
technical assistance, which put ownership and capacity building at risk, and required the GoU to recruit
additional counterpart staff at a time of civil service restructuring and hiring freezes.
Subcomponent 2b: The project team was aware of the MOES' low capacity in procurement, financing and
construction and made arrangements to strengthen it through training and technical assistance. However,
there was no clear plan for the integration of core functions into the MOES. Plans and objectives provided
in the SAR were vague and did not set forth a clear set of activities for improving MOES capacity. The
SAR did not explain the mechanism by which in-service training would occur.
Subcomponent 2c: The design quality of this subcomponent was uneven. The plan to improve
examination quality was exemplary. It was guided by an understanding of the importance of high stakes
exams and the difficulty of reforming teacher practice if exam content and approaches do not require or
reward changed practice. However, plans for capacity building were based on long-term technical
- 7 -



assistance and overseas training. The design of continuous assessment (CA) for non-examined subjects
was internally inconsistent: the SAR opposed an expanded curriculum and textbooks were planned only for
examined subjects. In addition, CA was conceptualized as a centralized process. Although there are
certain methods of CA which can be used by all teachers (running records for the teaching of reading, for
example), CA works best when designed and used by teachers to understand and respond to the learning
issues of particular students. Curriculum reform was needed, but plans and timelines seem to have
overestimated the capacity of the implementing units. Plans to train textbook and children's literature
authors and to provide supplementary reading materials to schools were innovative and could have had
substantial impact on student learning.
Subcomponent 2d: Substantial funds were allocated to the strengthening of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), which consisted of non-ministerial staff and developed extra-ministerial units, such as the
Instructional Materials and TDMS Units. The decision to continue the PIU approach was unfortunate,
especially since previous PCR and project experience stressed the need to establish and strengthen project
management as an institutionalized part of the Ministry (see above). PIU staff were involved in every
aspect of the project, diminishing the project's potential impact on MOES capacity.
3.4 Revised Components:
Subcomponent lb was revised in the initial years of the project to include two additional PTC, one
additional tutor training wing and fifty additional CC. These were to have been financed by the Fourth
Education Project, but the Ministry was unable to complete them prior to the closing of the credit.
Subcomponent lc was revised to extend the purchase and distribution of textbooks to cover all primary
school grades and to purchase supplementary reading materials for grades 14 to promote early literacy.
By 1997, it had been decided to eliminate the purchase of supplementary materials, as USAID funded an
initial purchase and it was later felt that schools received funds for the same purpose through their UPE
grants. It was also decided to eliminate the training and support for publishers, authors and illustrators. In
the case of publishers, this assistance was declined by the publishers themselves, but that was not the case
for authors and illustrators. While the initial revision of the instructional materials component was highly
desirable, the subsequent revision weakened the initial design and reduced the quantity and variety of
instructional materials that could have been available for students. Subcomponent 2c was revised
following the introduction of UPE to include grades 6 and 7 syllabi and teachers' guides.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although the project objectives and activities corresponded broadly to GoU priorities and the Country
Brief, the ICR rates the Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory for the following reasons: (a) the project was
not designed to support UPE (defined as universal primary enrollment), despite the GoU's announced
intention to move quickly to UPE during the project implementation period, and the Bank's commitment to
supporting UPE; (b) the plan for teacher education was top-down and focused on establishing a complex
delivery system, with no indicators related to improving student learning outcomes; (c) the PIU approach
ignored lessons from earlier projects, reduced potential capacity-building in the MOES and put
sustainability at risk from the beginning; (d) the design of the construction component failed to take lessons
from earlier projects into account, continuing approaches which had already been proven problematic; (e)
there was no attention to HIV/AIDS; and (f) there were no activities or indicators focused on girls'
education. The activities proposed in the SAR were important for the improvement of educational quality,
but did not support a larger, long-term vision, which could have made Uganda's transition to UPE less
systemically traumatic. No targets were given for the objective of increasing and reallocating sectoral
resources. Little attention was paid to creating the sustainable systems and processes that the Ministry
would need (possibly including the capacity to successfully outsource specific activities) to continue
expanding and strengthening the system after project closing. The SAR does not describe the planned
- 8 -



content or approach to teacher education, or its link to improving student learning; it focuses rather on the
number of institutions to be constructed or renovated and the number of teachers to be trained. Lack of
capacity in the PIU resulted in significant delays from the start. The GoU did not want significant amounts
of technical assistance, but it was included regardless. Finally, the project did not respond to the
HIV/AIDS crisis, although the prevalence rate in Uganda for young adults aged 15-19 was 32 percent in
1992 (CAS, 2001, p.8). No activities were planned to increase the participation of girls or women beyond
the targeting of districts with low female enrollment, although considerable discrepancies existed in national
primary school completion rates and the enrollment rates of many districts, and Government policy
documents and the SAR cited girls' education as a priority. Many monitoring indicators were vague and
incomplete, and, in the case of resource mobilization and allocation, nonexistent.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives is rated satisfactory.
Several events which occurred during the implementation period were of such magnitude that it is
impossible to assess project impact in isolation. In 1997, four years after effectiveness, the GoU abolished
school fees at the primary level and enrollment consequently almost doubled from one school year to the
next. In 1998, the Bank increased its assistance to the sector through budget support (the ESAC) and the
HIPC program permitted the GoU to allocate additional resources to the sector. Other donors began to
provide budget support in 2000. To some extent, the objectives and functions of the PETDP were
subsumed by this shift; by 1998, specific activities and outputs which were (or might have originally been)
understood as project-specific, were now supported by the national budget, with the PETDP serving as a
catalyst in the reform process. PETDP constructed a foundation for continuing reforms in the sector and
improved students' learning environrments through classroom construction, curriculum reform, teacher
education and textbook revision. While PETDP guided ESAC design and created a framework within
which policy-based operations like ESAC operated, the impetus provided by UPE and ESAC galvanized
the new PETDP staff and ensured that the Project moved out of problem status. PETDP performance was
upgraded from Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory after one year of ESAC implementation. Support for the
expansion of primary education came from the highest levels of government and from the donor
community, which marshalled substantial additional resources. Intended project outcomes were largely
attained, although some activities were unsuccessful. Activities rated satisfactory accounted for about 60%
of budgeted costs and about 50% of actual costs.
In addition, the objective of increased resource mobilization and changed resource allocation was clearly
attained. During the project implementation period, resource allocations to the sector increased and
intra-sectoral allocations decreased at the tertiary level and increased at the primary level. Between 1992
and 1999, the share of recurrent expenditure (excluding statutory and interest payments) going to primary
education increased remarkably, from 33% (1992/93) to 70% (1999/00). Funding for tertiary education as
a percentage of the total education budget decreased from 18.5% in 1994/95 to 11.2% in 1998/99. The
primary education budget as a percentage of GDP increased from 1.3% in 1992/93 to over 2% in 1999/00.
This project demonstrates the difficulty of measuring project impact and assessing project quality.
Developments in the sector over the project implementation period far exceeded many of the goals and
objectives set. However, while the project contributed to the creation of an enabling environment for UPE,
it could have done more. The PETDP gave satisfactory support to the sector during a period of
extraordinary developments. It remains to be seen if that (and future) support is sufficient for those
extraordinary developments to be sustained.



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Improving primary school teaching and management: This component is overall rated
Satisfactory.
(i) Establishing the teacher development and management system (TDMS): The quantitative objectives of
this component were mostly attained and the TDMS framework was established and has attracted much
international attention and considerable donor support. Expectations that teaching quality would improve
during the initial years of massive enrollment increases were probably unrealistic. Thus, while the ultimate
goal of TDMS, which was the improvement of the quality of instruction at the primary level, was not
reached, its existence probably averted an even greater decline in educational quality. TDMS's
accomplishments of linking teacher education institutions with primary schools and de-linking inspection
from pedagogical support represent significant, promising shifts in the Ugandan teacher development
system.
As TDMS became operational, demand for access spread from original TDMS districts through the entire
country. The Bank ultimately supported 10 PTC and an additional 8 were financed by the GoU, the Royal
Netherlands Government and Ireland Aid, providing nationwide coverage. These 18 PTC are linked to 539
Coordinating Centers (CC); 298 with Bank support which are in turn linked to 5,000 Outreach Schools
(OS). Instead of linking each CC to 10 OS, as originally planned, each CC was eventually linked to 18-20
OS. PTC deliver pre-service teacher education and in-service professional development for teachers and
Head Teachers. A primary teacher education curriculum, head teacher management training courses and a
course for teacher educators were developed. Curricula for a Diploma in Teacher Education and a
Bachelors in Teacher Education were revised to harmonize them with other TDMS courses. Of 8,000 head
teachers who were to have been trained, 3,863 had received training by the end of the project. 5,223
untrained teachers attended courses, of 5,000 initially planned, and 45,784 trained teachers participated in
professional development (of 63,000 targeted). Of 330 district education officials, 108 received some
training. 358 outreach staff (including CCT and PTC administrators) were trained. The monitoring and
supervision of PTC has improved. The country now has a nationwide teacher education system with
physical and management infrastructure and trained staff. The role of supervisory staff has changed from
one of inspection to one of pedagogical support, and pre-service programs are connected with schools,
improving the quality of instruction in both institutions. Continuous professional development has recently
been introduced, improving the connections between teacher education and classroom realities, but it
remains unstructured and uninstitutionalized. National and local ownership of the TDMS is strong, and the
materials produced during the project are of high quality. There are anecdotal reports of improved lesson
preparation, student supervision and improved oversight of student work.
However, teaching practice receives mixed reports (no formal evaluations were conducted), with many
documents indicating declines. Student achievement, according to the available measures, declined during
the project implementation period. Performance on standardized tests given in 1996 and 1999 to a sample
of third grade students indicates declines in learning achievement; anecdotal observational evidence
gathered during the final supervision mission showed that classrooms remain teacher-centered (and that
head teachers continue to believe in the strict supervision of staff as opposed to collegial collaboration).
Some of this is undoubtedly linked to the enrollment increases of UPE; TDMS may have reduced the
decline, but was unable to improve student learning. Rates of training program drop out were high during
the project implementation period: 1997 estimates were 26% for in-service teachers and 18% for head
teachers. In addition, the short-term, top-down nature of refresher programs made them less effective.
Teacher and head teacher attrition remained high at the end of the project, despite strong demand.
- 10-



(ii) Rehabilitating and constructing facilities: Despite initial delays, objectives of this component were
met by the end of the project: up to 16 PTC were planned in the SAR and ten were built or rehabilitated;
200 CC were planned and 298 were built or rehabilitated; 2,640 OC were planned and 2,782 were built or
rehabilitated. In addition, dormitory facilities for an additional 100 student teachers were added to each
PTC to respond to UPE demands for additional teachers. The quality of construction was acceptable,
although substantial upgrading and renovations were required for civil works undertaken prior to 1998 to
reach that level. Delays stemmed from the initial choice of an inappropriate implementation methodology
for OC and CC construction (centralized procurement by the PIU using ICB). These delays increased costs
and decreased the motivation of districts and communities. From 1993 to 1998, the centralized system was
maintained. Starting at the end of 1998, activities were gradually decentralized to districts following PIU
guidelines and with PIU monitoring. Community contributions, which were felt to have further delayed
construction in the most under-served and poorest areas, were eliminated. The decentralized construction
mechanisms which eventually evolved contributed to a sustainable national system of classroom
construction. However, there were no plans for either a community-based or a government-provided
infrastructure maintenance system.
(iii) Providing learning resources: The desired student:textbook ratio of 3:1 in core subjects was not
achieved. The EPD now estimates ratios ranging from 5:1 in grades 1-3 to 3:1 in grades 4-7. The PIU, in
its ICR, estimated a ratio of 10:1 per subject for each grade level. Many schools ordered small numbers of
many titles, due to insufficient support and information during the ordering process. This makes it difficult
or impossible for teachers inexperienced with textbooks to use them. The insufficient number of books was
due to insufficient financing (resulting from the UPE enrollment surge, increases in the price of paper,
exchange rate differentials and inadequate allocations), procurement difficulties and delays stemming from
the curriculum reform process. In addition, the lack of minimum physical production specifications and
inadequate storage arrangements resulted in shorter-than-expected book life. Theft of GoU-provided books
and their resale to private schools further reduced the number of books available to public school students
(GoU ICR). Despite continued observation of low textbook use in supervision reports and by the
Instructional Materials Unit (IMU), there was little mention of the development of mitigating strategies.
This was a problem in the Third and Fourth Education Projects, and was raised during project preparation,
but it was not solved during the PETDP. Effective use of textbooks remains problematic (final supervision
mission report and GoU ICR). Although 710,256 supplementary readers were purchased (financed by
USAID's SUPER project) and were found in classrooms in 1996, supervision reports state that they were
stocked in cupboards and rarely used. They were not found in classrooms during the final supervision
mission in 2001, nor were the plans for their use outlined in the SAR (book boxes, school libraries)
followed. Additional purchases of supplementary reading materials were eliminated from project activities,
due to the GoU decision to provide funds from materials through UPE district-level grants and difficulty
implementing the book box and library schemes. This decision was unfortunate: despite the UPE grants,
readers are not in classrooms. IMU procurement procedures greatly improved during the project and are
now achieving significant cost savings, although the process remains lengthy and books seldom arrive in
time for the beginning of the school year. The approach provides school-based purchasing power, choice
and decision-making in combination with benefits associated with centralized bulk purchasing. However, it
remains uncertain how IMU activities will be integrated in the MOES. No support was provided for the
East African School of Librarianship, as called for by the SAR.
Revitalizing private sector publishing and printing: Over the project implementation period, textbook
authorship and publishing monopolies ended, a viable and competitive education materials market was
created, locally established publishing companies (including national, regional and multinational
companies) increased in number and capacity, local authors emerged, a new generation of textbooks was
created and local book retailing increased. Local printing and manufacturing capacity increased somewhat,
- 11 -



although most educational printing is still done outside Uganda. Primary schools now have a wide choice
of textbooks and supplementary reading materials, increasing competition and reducing prices. Prices have
not fallen as much as expected, owing to school purchasing decisions (see above). Local publishers argued
that they did not need the training and capacity-building planned by the project, so this activity was
dropped. However, capacity-building for authors of supplementary books and textbook illustrators, which
was still needed, was eliminated at the same time.
Component 2: Enhancing strategic Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) functions. This
component is overall rated Marginally Satisfactory.
Strengthening planning and policy analysis: The PETDP contributed to major policy reforms. Despite
failure to staff the Planning Unit early during the project, substantial staff development did occur during the
final years of the project when the Unit was finally staffed. The Unit is now fully staffed and operating
with hardly any TA support. The long-term objective of developing capacity for recurring planning
activities was thus largely achieved, although several areas, notably annual school census and financial
analysis of policy options, and forward budgeting remain problematic. The SAR envisaged a five-year
process of ongoing training, but it could not be implemented, owing to delays in staff hiring. The EPU was
to be fully staffed within three months of project effectiveness, but substantive appointments were not
initiated until late 1999 and were not completed until late 2000, seven years after effectiveness.
Meanwhile, high turnover in the unit during the earlier years of the Project made it impossible for
short-term training to have long-term impact. The extensive technical assistance funded by the project did
not result in the expected outcome.
National Assessment of Educational Performance/National Assessment of Progress in Education (NAPE)
(the name was changed during project implementation): The NAPE was one of the first national
assessments to be conducted in Sub-Saharan Africa and was the first attempt to systematically establish a
system for monitoring student achievement over time. Four iterations of the NAPE were developed and
conducted. The findings of the first three (two iterations of Achievement in Mathematics and English
Language in 1996 and 1999 and one of Science and Social Studies in 1999) were widely disseminated
through stakeholder workshops, and through a variety of creative mechanisms including posters for
teachers and students. Results of the fourth study are currently being analyzed. However, NAPE's profile
is low, its institutionalization minimal (one UNEB staff member is responsible) and there is little evidence
of impact on teacher practice or on educational policy, despite considerable and varied outreach efforts
(workshops, radio programs and poster development and dissemination). No item banks have been
established for future tests, nor have assessments been conducted in other subject areas. NAPE staff need
considerable additional technical assistance and training and additional staff need to be hired.
Policy studies: The book policy study was highly effective in influencing policy, while the secondary
education study had only limited impact. The book study directly contributed to the transition from state
domination of authorship, publishing and distribution into a vibrant private sector publishing industry. A
wide range of competing alternative textbooks, developed specially for the Ugandan primary curriculum,
are now available; all involve local authorship. Conversely, the secondary education costs and finance
study had little discemible impact on policy formulation. The study did not adequately address the issues
identified in the SAR and the TOR. In addition, the MOES was preoccupied with UPE issues and had
limited interest at the time in the secondary sub-sector. A third study, Cost Effectiveness of Teacher
Training, was influential in the GoU's decision to increase the efficiency of resource use in teacher
education by closing underperforming PTC.
- 12-



Upgrading management and information systems: Although MOES management was strengthened in the
project's early years, through short training courses supported by the PPF, and some study tours were
conducted, plans for continuous in-service training of MOES staff were not implemented, owing primarily
to delays in staffing and staff turnover. At the end of the PETDP implementation period, training for the
Education Management Information System (EMIS) at the central level and all districts was complete. The
EMIS which only became operational towards the end of the Project is now providing needed data for
policy analysis and planning. For the first time, the Ministry has access to timely annual education
statistics. Due to the GoU's desire for additional technical advice prior to procuring EMIS computers,
computers for the districts were not procured until July/August 2001, after PETDP closed. In the interim,
the lack of reliable education statistics, longitudinal data bases and analyses to support planning and policy
had significant negative impact on the MOES's planning.
Reformning curriculum and examinations: At the end of the project implementation period, significantly
later than planned, training of syllabus writers and syllabus development for grades 1-7 had been completed
and 30,000 copies of the syllabus for grades 1-4 had been purchased and distributed. However, only one
copy per school, to be shared by 10-15 teachers, was seen in schools visited during the final supervision
mission. In addition, all four core subjects were combined in one booklet, making it difficult for individual
teachers to use the syllabus. The teachers' guide for grades 1-4 was produced and will be distributed
during the 2001-02 school year, but the final supervision mission found that "it represents more of a
challenge to the teacher than a support" (Curriculum Development Component report, p.2). The guide was
not pre-tested, nor were PTCs or CCs involved in its development. Although teachers participated in
subject panels, they were minimally involved in piloting materials. Training programs for district level
staff were conducted, but teacher orientation remains minimal, especially regarding the adaptation of
learner-centered methods for large classes. Textbooks to support the new syllabi are not available. The
delays in curriculum development delayed textbook procurement and examination reform. Coordination
between exam design and classroom practices appears minimal: continuous assessment was not fully
integrated into the curriculum approach, and syllabi for mathematics and social studies do not mention it.
Supplementary readers were never produced; nor were children's literature writers, illustrators or designers
trained.
Examination reform: National Curriculum Committees existed for each examined subject prior to the
project, but their responsibilities were unclear. Specific terms of reference were developed during project
implementation, and committees now review test plans, past examination papers and input from the NCDC,
Inspectorate, examiners and schools to ensure the quality of test items and congruence with curricula.
Although committee members need additional training, and additional committees need to be established for
new subjects, the committees have contributed to the improvement of examinations.
Continuous assessment (CA) and Higher Order Thinking Skills (HOTS): CA was intended to focus on
non-examined subjects. There were significant implementation delays, and at the time of project closing,
CA had been introduced only for examined subjects in grades 5 and 6. It has not significantly influenced
classroom-level practice, owing partly to a lack of information at the school level and delayed integration in
the Primary Leaving Exam (PLE) scoring mechanism (software is currently being modified for the PLE,
but still does not include provision for CA). HOTS test items have been introduced to the PLE, but no
assessments have been made of student performance on these particular test items nor of any possible
related changes in classroom practice.
- 13 -



Feedback to teachers: The quality of exam reporting has improved. Examiners were trained in report
writing and standard fornats for reporting student PLE performance were developed. However, the reports
often go unused at the school level and thus have had little impact on instructional quality.
Systems of information exchange: The UNEB has conducted workshops to increase awareness of its
functions and has also developed newsletters and radio and television broadcasts. Past exam papers and
exam reports are disseminated to the NCDC and the Inspectorate. There is no formal system of
information exchange; rather, information goes out from UNEB to other institutions for their use.
Increase of UNEB capacity: Capacity building was difficult at the beginning of implementation. It was
planned to send staff for long-term training abroad, but GoU policy changed shortly after project
effectiveness and training abroad was restricted to short courses. In addition, planned technical assistance
did not materialize for years. Concurrently, design issues delayed the construction of the new UNEB
facility for several years. Original specifications were downsized, resulting in the construction of a facility
which, while of high quality, cannot house all of UNEB's staff. UNEB continues to operate from multiple
sites, decreasing efficiency and security while increasing costs (three of its five sites are rented). A modem
printing machine was procured and installed at the end of the project, and staff were trained in its use just
before project closing. Professional staff continue to have limited or no computer access, despite the
importance of computer technology in designing valid examinations and conducting research. Staff report
that capacity building programs did not correspond to staff needs, and the final supervision mission
concurred that further training in assessment techniques, test-related statistical methods and basic computer
skills will be necessary in the near future.
Building project implementation capacity: Although the EPU and PIU were to be fully staffed and
operational within three months after effectiveness, the EPU was not fully staffed until seven years after
effectiveness. The PIU was fully staffed a year after effectiveness, but there was considerable management
turnover and difficulty during the project implementation period. There were concerns about its "command
and control" approach from the early days of project implementation and about its tendency to hoard
resources (primarily vehicles and computers). Thus, although considerable financial and human resources
were used to strengthen the PIU, these resources did not initially enhance ministerial capacity due to lack of
coordination. Eventually, post-1998, the project management team was changed and the new team came in
with a high level of professionalism, and achieved significant economies of scale through the high level
coordination set up between various projects and respective Ministry departnents. This facilitated
integration of many of the project activities towards the later part of the Project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development imnpact is rated as modest, although it is difficult to isolate the impact of the
PETDP. The project's most significant institutional contribution was the TDMS. The project established
an integrated nationwide system for teacher development, and a network of teacher educators and
educational practitioners that should support the improvement of educational quality in Uganda for years to
come, if the approach evolves towards one that focuses on improving student learning through ongoing
- 14 -



school-level support for teachers. Institutional development in other areas was varied. Through evolving
approaches, the construction program contributed to the development of a national construction program.
Textbook procurement processes were considerably improved and should be sustainable, if sufficient skill
transfer from PIU to civil service and/or contracted staff occurs. The project was instrumental in
developing an EMIS. The EPD is finally beginning to play the role that was envisaged for it in 1993, but
delays greatly reduced the quantity and impact of planned training. The capacity of the UNEB and the
NCDC have increased, although both continue to struggle to respond to system needs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Strong macroeconomic performance in the second half of the 1990s and increased international support for
debt relief programs created financial possibilities that enabled Uganda to allocate significant additional
resources to primary education. In addition, external development support increased during this time
period. Primary education received 70% of the external financing contributed to the country's Poverty
Action Fund in 1999/00. The GoU's decision to move to UPE was outside the control of the implementing
agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The 1997 announcement that school fees would be abolished at the primary level, almost doubling
enrollment from one school year to the next, was the defining event of Ugandan education during the 1990s.
Although policy documents annexed to the SAR clearly state the GoU's plans, the actual decision to
implement and the implementation strategy (fee abolition for all primary grades introduced in the same
year, not phased in year by year as was initially planned) took the sector and the international community
by surprise. The MOES was unable to respond in a way that would have protected educational quality in
the compressed timeframe available. The TDMS was unable to absorb the number of teacher candidates
needing training; student:teacher ratios quickly became unmanageable; the number and size of classrooms
were inadequate and instructional materials were insufficient.
On the positive side, the GoU's commitment to increasing resource allocations for the sector and to
reallocating them within the sector permitted the hiring of additional teachers and the continued purchase of
instructional materials. Strong donor coordination contributed to achievements in teacher education,
construction and textbook procurement. The introduction of ESIP in 1998 supported a transition from
donor-funded projects to a sectorwide approach to educational development. Joint supervision missions
and semi-annual sector reviews facilitated policy dialogue and enabled coordinated responses to evolving
sector issues.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in staffing key units such as the EPU, in replacing staff who were clearly underperforming, such as
in the PIU during the first five years of implementation (although the PIU's performance improved
markedly post-1998), and in restructuring programs or elements of programs which were proving
unsuccessful, reduced the effectiveness of the project and contributed to its inability to achieve its quality
objectives (for example, the decentralization of construction procurement did not begin until 1997, four
years after effectiveness). Lack of procurement capacity in the PIU also caused delays and problems and
was the basis of complaints to IDA during the first half of the project. Most project achievements, other
than the continuing implementation and evolution of TDMS, occurred during the 1998-2001 period.
- 15-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Despite considerable disbursement lags during the first half ofthe project implementation period (36% in
March 1996), 90% of credit funds were disbursed prior to closing. Delays were due to procurement
problems, the use of inappropriate procurement mechanisms in the construction component and the lack of
adequate staffing in the PIU and EPU. Construction costs were considerably higher than projected, due to
a decision to upgrade design standards and the need to re-tender several sites to ensure adequate quality.
The decision to eliminate the funding of capacity-building for publishers, printers, authors and illustrators,
and the funding of the purchase of supplementary readers, reduced the financing of those components. The
"Strengthening Management and Information Systems" sub-component disbursed only 80% of allocated
funds, the lowest of all sub-components, with the exception of "Revitalizing Private Sector Publishing and
Printing," which disbursed no funds. The highest disbursing component was "Building Project
Implementation Capacity," support for the PIU, which disbursed 130% of its budget over the project
lifetime.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project achievements is rated likely. Most project activities have become government
programs, are included in the Medium Term Budget Framework and are part of the ongoing dialogue
between GoU institutions and between the GoU and donors that occurs through semi-annual sector reviews
and bimonthly Education Sector Coordinating Committee Meetings. The GoU remains highly committed to
UPE and to the improvement of educational quality and sector management. Government financing of
education continues to increase, with the share of government resources in the total budget devoted to the
primary subsector increasing from 20% in 1997/98 to 65% in 2000/01. The elimination of school fees
offset some of these gains, but overall resource flows increased and significant additional resources were
available at the school level. The policy environment remains favorable and donor commitment is strong,
with continued IDA support planned through a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). However, the
sector continues to be dependent on external aid (donor assistance to the primary subsector was greater
than the GoU development budget from 1997 to 2000, although the gap is narrowing (ESAC ICR, p. 28))
and consequences would be severe if donor priorities shift or donor commitment to the country declines.
Activities which relied on significant numbers of extemally-financed staff may be at risk if staff continuity
and/or rapid skill transfer proves impossible to arrange. At the time of project closing, many TDMS staff
had been integrated into the MOES (although not the outreach teacher educators), but it was uncertain
whether and how instructional materials procurement and classroom construction activities would be
integrated. Consultants and technical assistants also played prominent roles in curriculum, planning,
accounting/procurement and examination reform, raising concerns about sustainability in those areas.
Insufficient civil service staff and the overburdening of MOES and attached units remain a concern for
TDMS and UNEB (including NAPE).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the shift from project-based financing to budgetary support, almost all project activities have been
mainstreamed in the Ministry. This may prove problematic, as PIU and other project-financed (and
trained) staff will no longer be available. Continued project-based assistance may prove desirable,
depending on the evolution of GoU commitment to the sector and its implementation capacity, but must be
integrated into existing ministerial structures. However, the GoU remains committed to continuing to
construct classrooms, educate teachers and provide textbooks; in short, to continue supporting the kinds of
activities that were financed by the project. Sector development in the post-UPE era will require new and
more effective teacher recruitment, classroom construction, textbook distribution and use and educational
planning, among other activities.
- 16 -



In the future, the general objectives of the project can be monitored by continuing to pay attention to the
allocation of resources to and within the sector, ensuring that rapidly increasing pressure on the secondary
education subsector (and, later, the tertiary subsector) does not diminish the resources available to primary
education. Significant increases in GoU and donor resources will be necessary for this to work Specific
objectives such as improving teacher education, building, renovating and maintaining classrooms and
procuring textbooks and supplementary instructional materials, especially for the early grades, should be
vigorously supported. Classroom construction must continue to decrease in cost and increase in efficiency,
and textbooks must not only be procured, but distributed to students and used by teachers. Supplementary
reading materials should be re-prioritized. All of these interventions can and should be implemented and
monitored by the GoU.
External evaluations would contribute both to the improvement of Ugandan education and to sector
development in the region, as many countries are pursuing similar objectives. Currently, a monitoring and
evaluation system is in place in the MOES, supporting the Monitoring and Evaluation Working Group.
This Working Group has strong donor and Government representation and is implementing a significant
program of studies and evaluations, including annual reporting on progress towards EFA. It is
recommended that Bank follow-up include evaluations of former PETDP activities, preferably coordinated
with GoU and/or other donor evaluation efforts. An impact evaluation by OED would be useful and should
focus on the impact of project activities on educational quality: teacher practice, book availability and use
in classrooms and student achievement.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification/Preparation. Bank performance at identification is rated unsatisfactory. While the project
corresponded broadly to the objectives of the Country Brief and sector priorities, it did not respond to the
clearly stated desire of the GoU to introduce UPE over the period of project implementation. In addition, it
is impossible to justify the absence of an explicit response to HIV/AIDS, given the high prevalence rate
(32% among 15-19 year olds) at the time of project identification/preparation. No specific activities were
proposed to support girls' education, although girls' enrollment rates in many districts were significantly
lower than boys', and there was a significant national gap in primary school completion rates.
Appraisal. Bank performance at appraisal is rated unsatisfactory. Project preparation was lengthy:
discussions began in 1989 but the project was not appraised until 1991 and was only approved in 1993.
GoU commitment to UPE was underestimated and under-supported, despite the clarity of policy statements,
affecting the design of all project components. Despite the recommendations of the Third Education
Project's PCR and experiences during the Fourth Education Project, and the GoU's plans to decentralize
administration, the project continued the practice of using a project-financed, centralized, extra-ministerial
PIU, decreasing the potential for institutional capacity building and limiting post-project sustainability.
GoU commitment to the staffing of the PIU and the EPU was minimal (the EPU was fully staffed seven
years after effectiveness, rather than the three months stipulated in the SAR). In addition,
construction-related lessons cited in the PAPSCA audit report, which should have been apparent during the
project preparation period, were not incorporated in the new project. In fact, it was explicitly decided to
use the same mechanisms (BTOR, 1991). Classroom rehabilitation was planned, although PAPSCA found
few classrooms to rehabilitate; top-down methods of site selection were continued despite findings that
they reduced community ownership; centralized procurement procedures continued to produce delays and
decreased motivation; and centralized supervision continued to be problematic. Some of this was linked to
- 17-



Bank procurement procedures mandating the use of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and an
overriding focus on cost at port rather than cost at point of use.
Additionally, the ICR for the Fourth Education Project found that "higher initial investments for higher
physical specifications, training of teachers in book management and timely provision of storage cupboards
can more than pay for itself with prolonged book life." It also suggested that "impact on education cannot
be fully achieved through physical delivery of textbooks alone. It should be combined with appropriate
book use" (the ICR was published after PETDP effectiveness, but staff should have been familiar with the
project's implementation history). Nonetheless, none of these lessons were incorporated in the PETDP.
Performance indicators were not always quantified when quantification would have been appropriate (such
as targets for resource mobilization and reallocation) and qualitative indicators were infrequent and too
vague to be useful in monitoring. There were no formative or summative evaluations planned, despite the
innovative nature of several components and the long period of project implementation.
On the other hand, coordination with USAID was built into project design and resulted in achievements in
teacher education and textbook production and distribution that would have been difficult to implement
with Bank assistance alone. The TDMS design, particularly its emphasis on linking teacher education to
classroom practice, may yet have significant impact on the teacher education system, teaching practice and
student achievement.
The appraisal team identified four risks: counterpart funding, MOES implementation capacity, lack of
understanding of in-service training and curriculum overloading. Of these, implementation capacity proved
the most problematic. However, supervision missions later identified a number of additional risks: delays
in classroom construction, shortage of qualified candidates for CC tutor positions, lack of
mobility/transportation at decentralized levels, lack of mechanisms for transparency and accountability,
lack of guidelines for decentralized implementation and lack of TA skill transfer. These risks could have
been identified prior to start up and influenced implementation and sustainability.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions were frequent and
resulted in substantial aide-memoires which contributed to implementation, and dialogue with the GoU was
continuous. Continuous attempts were made to solve problems when they occurred, although the
implementation of solutions often took months or years, when they were implemented at all. Project
performance ratings were realistic and frequent attempts were made to underline the seriousness of
implementation problems. However, turnover in task management may have contributed to delays and
inadequate funding made it difficult to provide uniformly adequate supervision across components. The
decision not to restructure the project following the introduction of UPE is somewhat understandable, given
the wide range of sector priorities and the project's planned response to some of them, but restructuring
could have increased project focus on key quality and access inputs, and on ensuring the sustainability of
activities. The task team did develop projections for UPE enrollment numbers, although demand proved
much higher than estimated. In addition, the decentralization of classroom construction, an emphasis on
moving to double shift teaching where possible, and proposals for a shortened pre-service program were
developed by the team, although the only change adapted by the GoU was the decentralization of
construction. Restructuring could also have addressed other deficiencies in design such as the lack of a
response to HIV/AIDS and the negligible attention to girls' schooling issues. It may also have been
possible for Bank staff to more strongly encourage a reduction in technical assistance and the integration of
PIU functions in the Ministry. The Bank did eventually encourage the GoU to limit TA and to base TA
contracts on skill transfer, insisting upon local counterparts prior to the issuance of no-objections for
extemal TA. Bank staff in the Country Office, especially education staff, were very effectively involved in
- 18-



supervision, especially towards the end of the project, which increased the Bank's ability to continuously
respond to the changing country context and strengthened donor coordination. The Bank responded
flexibly according to changing circumstances, providing support for decentralization, producing projections
for UPE in support of MOES preparations and allocating funds to monitor UPE implementation when
requested to do so by the GoU. The Bank also continuously supported and productively participated in
donor collaboration, organizing joint missions, encouraging mission participation from various donors and
working with them to resolve implementation and policy dialogue issues.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Supervision, especially during the latter part of the project was
strong, enabling the achievement of certain project goals. However, increased attention to student- and
classroom-level issues throughout the implementation period would have increased project impact; and
increased attention to sustainability issues earlier.on could have avoided some of the end-of-project
difficulties.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government preparation performance is rated satisfactory. Substantial policy discussions and related
statements were produced, providing guidelines for a decade of sector reform and expansion. Studies were
undertaken in the context of the Fourth Education Project to enhance policy reform and specific activities.
The GoU was reluctant to commit to large amounts of technical assistance, although it eventually
concurred with the Bank's recommendations.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Commitment to the sector and particularly
to the primary education subsector remained high throughout the implementation period. The GoU
increased financial allocations to the sector beyond agreed-upon levels, mitigating somewhat the decline in
educational quality related to enrollment expansion. GoU attitudes towards technical assistance changed
over the implementation period, with more interest in having TA during the middle and final years,
resulting in some conflict with Bank supervision teams attempting to ensure capacity building. Decisions
not to use multigrade teaching and not to shorten pre-service teacher education reduced the ability of the
sector to respond effectively to UPE.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated marginally satisfactory, although it improved
remarkably during the last three years of the project, following a change of Project management team.
Delays in staffing the PIU and EPU reduced the impact of project activities, and resulted in substantial
delays in the construction component. Inadequate supervision of construction was linked to materials
spoilage and theft, leading to cost overruns. Procurement was problematic prior to 1998 and the change in
PIU staffing, with several cases of near misprocurement and complaints from contractors to the Bank's
Executive Directors. During the first half of the project, complications with bid evaluation, performance
security and delays produced numerous non-performing contracts. Requests for technical assistance varied
from unit to unit (and TA was refused in some cases), but the TA that was financed did not result in the
expected outcome. Post-1998,with a change in PIU management, project activities, especially construction
accelerated considerably. The new project team, with effective coordination and management, turned the
performance of most components around and were the primary reason the project attained most of its
quantitative objectives.
-19-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. It improved sharply post-1998. Despite the many
urgent demands placed on the MOES by the introduction of UPE, project activities accelerated in the last
few years of implementation and most quantitative targets were met by closing.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation of PETDP produced a number of important lessons for education and other projects in
the Africa Region and Bank-wide. As mentioned earlier, it is difficult to separate the lessons of PETDP
and the lessons of the PETDP implementation period. The project years showed that UPE is attainable, but
that rapid preparatory work is needed to encourage and respond to governmental policy initiatives. The
experiences of the PETDP era are particularly important in the post-Dakar EFA context, as many countries
in the Region are expected to 'scale up' the goals of their reform programs and the Bank will be expected to
respond in efficient and systemically sustainable ways. PETDP highlighted the difficulty of improving
educational quality and the need to focus on classrooms and teacher-student interaction, especially in a
context of rapid enrollment increases. The 'Ugandan experience' should be studied by other countries
designing UPE strategies and by Bank and other donor staff seeking to assist them, to better understand
both what made UPE happen in Uganda and how the transition could have been better managed in order to
better serve students.
General application
The extensive use of donor-financed staff/consultants and long-term technical assistants imperils
capacity building and lowers the likelihood of sustainability. Civil service staff may be less experienced
in project implementation than technical assistants, and activities may consequently require more start-up
time (although, in this case, lack of capacity in the PIU was also a constraint). However, funding used to
build capacity among line personnel will continue to support sector development after project closing.
Increasing responsibility and providing access to resources and short-term, "just-in-time," training can help
national staff gain confidence, experience, motivation and the ability to implement complex reform not only
for the project being implemented but for the entire sector and for the long-term. Terms of reference for all
consultants/technical assistants should clearly indicate skills transfer expectations and timelines. Beyond
the issue of whether PIU staff are civil servants (they were not during the PETDP), the use of a PIU
structure to implement projects reduces the amount of capacity building that occurs and experience that
accumulates in line units. Education and other ministries contain staff who are responsible for the ongoing
functions of textbooks provision, teacher education and construction, or at least staff who are responsible
for supervising contractors who work in these area, and those staff should be the focus of training and
support.
Formative evaluation could be invaluable in keeping interventionsfocused on desired outcomes, and
summative evaluation would provide needed information for subsequent work. Although the TDMS unit
constantly reviewed and adjusted its programs, if it and the instructional materials components had
conducted periodic evaluations during implementation, it might have been possible to better target
instructional quality and student learning. Summative evaluation results of TDMS, the curriculum reform,
examination, construction and other programs would have been useful for the next phase of reform in
Uganda and for other countries planning similar programs.
- 20 -



Sector application
It may be possible to reach UPE (or close to it) with a few (or one) key decisions. This is the most
important lesson of the PETDP decade and it should be a heartening one for countries in similar
circumstances. Uganda showed that the social demand for education is great (at least in Uganda) and that
most parents will enroll their children if financial barriers are removed and there is a clear signal from
Government regarding the importance of education. Complex programs designed to address the sometimes
presumed lack of demand were not necessary to reach the vast majority of children in Uganda. Free access
to a classroom and teacher (even, in this case, if both are of minimal quality) led to enrollment. The next
challenge for the GoU will be to ensure UPC: universal primary completion, for which demand issues may
prove to be more of an obstacle.
The improvement of educational quality requires a classroom-levelfocus on teaching and learning
outcomes. Satisfaction of quantitative objectives, such as the number of textbooks procured and delivered,
has little impact on quality unless those textbooks are used by teachers and students. Use of learning
materials by teachers and students is not straightforward and requires a great deal more attention than it
received during this project. Similarly, the training of a certain number of teachers, even if that number is
large, will have little impact on the quality of teaching practice and student learning unless that training is
carefully designed, based on classroom realities and provided in an environment of ongoing support. It is
critical to maintain a focus on desired outcomes: increased quality and to continually ask the question
"how is this benefitting students?"
Construction and Rehabilitation
Centralized materials procurement is impractical in countries with inadequate transportation and
management systems. The lack of storage capacity at the district level resulted in theft and wastage of
construction materials. In addition, coordination difficulties decreased the motivation of schools and
communities-communities were ready to participate and required materials were not available. District
ownership was nonexistent, as district staff resented their lack of involvement in the decision-maling and
procurement processes.
Teacher Development and Management System
Quantitative indicators may be important, but they are insufficient to guide policy andprogram
development over the short or long term. Had the TDMS system been more focused on the attainment of
qualitative objectives as well as quantitative ones, connections between training and teacher
practice/student learning achievement might have received more attention.
Education Policy and Planning
Broadly shared ownership is necessary if continuity is to be achieved in rapidly changing environments.
While the organization and role of the EPU was clearly described in the PETDP SAR, Ministry personnel
involved in project design were transferred or dismissed prior to project negotiations. Higher level Ministry
personnel did not hire replacements. The unit then languished without adequate staff for seven years,
leading to ineffective investments in capacity building and incomplete attainment of important objectives
such as the implementation of an EMIS.
- 21 -



Policy studies have more impact when designed in response to immediate needs and viewed as a process,
not a product. The book sector review was highly successful in changing policy, while the secondary
education costs and financing study had little impact. The book sector review was conducted as a
consultative process, supporting an ongoing policy and strategy debates involving the Ministry, donors and
other stakeholders. The review also addressed an urgent and immediate problem which was linked to the
introduction of UPE, a government priority at the time. The secondary study was not effective in building
capacity and did not respond to felt needs at the ministerial level, where efforts were concentrated on
responding to UPE.
Instructional Materials
Private sector publishers can and will respond to market deregulation, increasing book availability and
quality. PETDP created a significant textbook market in Uganda and ended previous state domination of
authorship and distribution. The number, size, skills and financial viability of publishers with fully
functioning offices in Uganda has increased, as has the number of successful local educational publishers
with 100% Ugandan equity.
Schools and teachers need considerable guidance and information during the introduction of textbook
choice. At the beginning of the project, schools tended to order small numbers of multiple titles, making it
impossible for teachers and students to use them effectively. Sample copies were not always available for
teachers and headteachers, making it impossible for them to choose the most appropriate titles for their
students and leading them to order multiple titles in order to test new materials. This increased costs, due
to smaller print runs, reducing the number of books that could be purchased for the system. At the end of
the project, textbooks were rare and even more rarely used, due to inappropriate early choices.
Supplementary reading materials require special attention. Despite their critical role in student learning,
supplementary materials are rarely found in Ugandan classrooms. In the PETDP, centralized procurement
of supplementary readers was replaced by decentralized funding remitted to districts and transferred to
schools for school-level purchasing. However, local bookstores did not stock adequate numbers of titles or
quantities of books, the system of pre-payment was never established and the usage schemes proposed by
the PETDP were never implemented. As a result, very few students had access to additional materials and
students in the early grades continue to struggle with literacy acquisition.
Curriculum Development
Curriculum materials must be pilot tested in real schools, by real teachers and real students.
Central-level curriculum experts were responsible for developing materials during the PETDP. Data
gathered during the final supervision mission indicated that this did not result in the design of relevant
materials: teachers did not thoroughly understand the underlying principles of the new curriculum and
could not use the methods suggested, due to difficulty in adapting them to large class sizes. The new
teachers' guides were found to be more of a challenge than a support for teachers; with language that is too
advanced, structure that is too complex and insufficient connections with current classroom realities. PTC
and CC were not involved in pilot testing, eliminating potential benefits both to their staff (from
involvement in the design process) and to the materials.
- 22 -



Teachers need substantive, ongoing support to implement new curricula, especially in climates of
resource scarcity. Professional development for teachers received only 13% of the curriculum
development budget. District councils were expected to pay for cascade-style workshops, but were
financially unable to do so. Even if they had been able to organize these workshops, the cascade method of
teacher education has not generally been successful. Pre-service teacher education programs should also be
involved in curriculum development, and were not. Involvement would increase the capacity of teacher
educators and prepare new teachers for professional reflection and a wider role in educational innovation.
Assessment systems that help teachers and policy-makers understand student learning are essential. The
PETDP project design included feedback systems to inform teachers about students' exam performance, but
this objective was not attained and would be difficult with a national-level exam. Were continuous
assessment taught to all teachers and introduced for all subjects, teachers would have much better
day-to-day understandings of their particular students' leaming, and would be able to design responsive
lessons. Policy makers need a broader picture of student leaming to design national and regional level
policies. Without this information, it is impossible to base examination reform, national curriculum
revisions or instructional materials on pupil learning issues and/or teachers' instructional difficulties.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Annex 9 contains the executive summary of the Borrower's ICR. Following is a summary of the ratings it
contains:
Overall outcome: Satisfactory
Components
Establishment of the TDMS Network: Satisfactory
Rehabilitation and Construction of Facilities: Satisfactory
Instructional Materials Unit: Satisfactory
Reforming Curriculum:
Examination Reform: Satisfactory
Strengthening Planning and Policy Analysis: Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time: No
Quality at Entry: Satisfactory
Sustainability: Satisfactory
Bank Performance: Satisfactory
Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
(b) Cofinanciers:
USAID provided parallel financing for the PETDP, which consisted of nonproject assistance and support
for the establishment of the Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS). An additional US$
83 million of nonproject assistance was to have been provided on the condition that the GoU improve
teacher compensation and local-level decision-making in the sector and provide a sustainable supply of
instructional materials. The GoU was able to meet these conditions and the financing was provided.
Collaboration was successful throughout the project implementation period.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The instructional materials component supported a significant expansion of the private publishing market.
During project implementation, state textbook authorship and publishing monopolies ended, a viable and
- 23 -



competitive education materials market was created, locally established publishing companies (including
national, regional and multinational companies) increased in number and capacity, new textbooks were
developed and local book retailing increased. Local printing and manufacturing capacity also increased
somewhat, although most materials continue to be printed in other countries.
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcomellmpact Indicators
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Improve the quality of instruction at the  Student leaming has declined, according to  No evaluation of teacher practce was
primary level.                     available measures. The percentage of third  conducted during evaluation exercise.
grade students attaining satisfactory grades  Anecdotal evidence indicated that the
in math declined from 48% in 1996 to 39%  national quality of teacher practice remains
in 1999 and the percentage of students  unchanged or has worsened (although it
performing satisfactory in oral English  may have declined further without project
declined from 92% to 56%. Govemment   interventions due to UPE enrolment
and donors are working to ensure that  increases). Other anecdotal evidence
quality does not deteriorate further.  indicates that certain teacher practices,
such as lesson planning, have improved.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Reform the pattem of resource      Between 1992 and 1999, the share of   Public recurrent expenditure on:
mobilization and allocation in the sector.  primary education expenditure increased
from 33% to 70% of total education   (a)   Primary education as a percentage of
expenditure. Funding for tertiary education  total recurrent public educaton expenditure
as a percentage of the total education  is 67.4%.
recurrent budget decreased from 18.5% in  (b)  Secondary & Tertiary education as
1994195 to 11.2% in 1998199. The primary  percentages of total recurrent public
education budget as a percentage of GDP  expenditure on educaton is 27.5%.
increased from 1.3% in 1992/93 to over 2%  (c)  Primary education budget as
in 1999/2000. Primary education costs to  percentage of GDP is 2.7%.
parents were reduced substantially through
UPE policies eliminating school fees.
Strengthen the strategic functions of the  Plans to strengthen EPD were seriously  The EMIS is now functioning at the central
Ministry of Education and Sports.  delayed but substantial staff development  level and in 10 districts. All districts have
occurred during the final years of    received training on EMIS, and an annual
implementation. Several areas notably the  EMIS cycle has been agreed to ensure
annual school census, financial analysis of  more tmely availability of data.
policy options, planning and information
systems and forward budgeting remain  Initial reports have been produced.
problematic. The EPD has evolved into a
substantially stronger body than was initially
envisaged.
Upgrade existing primary institutions.  10 PTC completed.                10 PTCs completed.
Construction or renovation of up to 16  2,743 classrooms completed.      2782 classrooms completed.
PTC. Renovation of 500 classrooms per  298 CC established.               298 CCs established.
year. Construction of approximately
2.460 new classrooms in each of 8
districts. Construction/renovabon of
approximately 200 CC.
- 25-



Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Training of writers and illustrators for  Author and illustrator training eliminated as  The esUimated student: book ratio is 6:1.
syllabus textbooks and children's    project activities.                   Book usage remains problematic, teacher
literature.                          Procurement and distributon of 6,325,081  professional development in use of
books set in all districts.          instructional materials is underway.
Greater availability of learning materials.  Each school has received two copies of a
textbook management and use manual.
Procurement system tested and effectve
student book ratos established at 5:1 - 8:1
per subject Vs 3:1 project target (were
4:7-7:1 in 1997 prior to introduction of
UPE).
Enhanced capacity to produce instructional  Policy and strategy review completed.  Decentralized book procurement to
materials.                           Major reforms approved 12/00 significant  schools.
Policy changes by GoU in areas of    textbook market created, state domination
publishing and tariffs on materials and  ended.
equipment.
Increase in the number of locally produced  Wide range of competing textbook  Increased number of Publishers and
tifles each year.                    available, all with local authorship, but little  bookstores in the Country. Local publishers
improvement in local printing capacity.  now dominate market as opposed to
foreign publishers prior to project.
Increased participation in publishing and  Courses eliminated as project activities.  Several Publishers competitively operatng
printing courses.                                                          in the Country.
Reduction in dependence on foreign
publishers.
Increased employment in the local
publishing industry.                           _
Increases in the average useable life of  Book-life was lower than expected due to  New system has improved quality of
locally produced textbooks.          minimum physical production           materials by giving specific physical
specifications.                       producton specifications and has reduced
unit cost of textbooks at the sometime.
Insufficient quantites.
Reduction in number of PTC to less than  PTCs reduced form 64 to 45, and 2  PTCs reduced form 64 to 45, and 2
forty.                               additional private ones due to PTE    additional private ones due to PTE
liberalization.                       liberalization.
Increased average enrollment to about 300  All PTCs have facilities for 300 students.  Enrollment is adjusted to demand and
students per institution, depending on local                               supply of teachers and the capacity of the
demand for trained teachers.                                                PTCs.
Newly constructed core PTCs have
facilites for 208 students.
Improve the quality and effectiveness of  More than 40% of PTC graduates failing  Failure rate came down to 26% by 2001.
PTC graduates.                       certifying exams.
- 26 -



IndicatorlMatrix                     Projected in last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
All PTC tutors to complete Grade V   358 attended additional training in Outreach  358 completed training.
training.                           functions.                            Most of them are University graduates who
specialized in Teacher Education and
Outreach functions.
Revision of Grade IlIl Curriculum.   - PTE Grade ll Curriculum was revised.  -  Revised PTE Curriculum now
- Curricula for Outreach Tutor Training  operational in all PTCs.
and Head teachers Management Training  -  The Outreach Tutors Programme
were constructed.                    integrated with Diploma in Teacher
Education-Kyambogo University.
-    Management Training Programme
operating at Kyambogo University.
Increase in proportion of staff time spent in  Following work plans and minimum  Strategic visits to schools and synergistic
in-service activities.               performance standards.               performance of educational activities are
now almost a natural routine.
Decrease the number of untrained    5223 unqualified teachers upgraded out of  -  3462 unqualified teachers also to
teachers.                           the original target of 5000.          complete training in April 2002 in phases iV
Annual increase in number of teachers                                     & V.
completing upgrading programme.                                           -    A New in-take of about 3000 has
Reduction in percentage of untrained                                      started under line MoES.
teachers to specified target in the mid-term  - 45784 attended nationally conducted  -  New Plan for Teacher
evaluation.                          Refresher Courses.                   Development includes framework for
Upgrade the skills and effectiveness of  - Several other Refresher Courses  continuous Professional Development
practcing teachers.                 conducted locally.                    courses.
Increase in the number of field visits by  CCTs in collaboration with area Inspectors  Each school is visited at least once per
inspectors and PTC tutors in TDMS    of Schools make daily routne visits to  month. Some are visited twice depending
districts.                          schools following workplan.           on the number of schools in the cluster.
Arrangements underway to rationalize PTC
PTC administrators and District Inspectors  and CC catchments areas and school
make frequent visits.                clusters to make them more manageable
for more frequent visits.
Improvements in pedagogical practice and  Student performance on NAPE declined  'National Inspection Initiative" carried out in
substantive content by teachers in TDMS  from 1996 - 1999.                42 of the 45 districts (April 2001) reported
districts.                                                                very good performance in pedagogical
I____________________________        Iactivites.
- 27 -



Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
Improvements in average student      Examinaffons data unavailable.       Number of passes has always gone up, but
examination performance in TDMS                                           no data on scrutiny of the quality of
districts.                                                                performance in line of the TDMS reforms.
Strengthen district and school       81,000 SMC targeted but training was  Training not yet effected but 20,000
management                           halted until SMC regulabons are rectified.  trainers' manuals and 20,000 users'
(School Management Committees).                                           manuals were produced.
Improved community participation through  More than 18,000 Volunteer Community  Number of schools has grown much bigger
Parent Teacher Association (PTA) and  Mobilizers (VCMs) were trained - an  and 2 VCMs have been trained per school.
Management Committees in TDMS        average rate of 2 VCMs per school.   The estimate is that there are about 24,000
districts.                                                                VCMs altogether.
Improved accounting and reductions in  On-head count conducted 3 times.   -    The CCTs, the Area Inspectors and
ghost teachers and other anomalies in                                     sub-County Local Councils have contained
TDMS districts.                                                           this malpractice through constant check
visits.
-    Staff lists are mounted on
noticeboards for everybody to see.
Improved personnel administration, lower  3863 Headteachers given some training in  -  Additional 3551 were trained under
absenteeism, and higher teacher morale in  Basic Schools Management Skills.  Dutch & Irish Grants. Making a total of
TDMS districts.                                                           7414 Headteachers.
-    Kyambogo University is preparing for
the next in-take.
-    Suggestion that training be extended
to other senior staff members.
Up-grade administrative systems.     Management training conducted for    "National Inspection Initiative" report
Headteachers and some District Education  indicates that there was good managerial
Officials.                           performance in the administrative areas
handled during management training.
Installation of personnel records, auditing  EPD capacity remains problematic. EMIS  EMIS now operational at central level and
and accounting systems with written  not operational according to the original  in 10 Districts.
procedure manuals and training       proposal.
computerizabon of all key ministry
functions.
Upgrade middle and senior management  EPD capacity remains problemabc.    Local training was conducted at Makerere
and key support staff.                                                    for most of the staff.
Improved managerial practice, higher staff
morale and lower attrition improved
administraabve efficiency.
- 28 -



IndicatorlMatrix                     Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
EPU (now EPD) has the capacity to carry
Strengthen planning capacity, annual  EPU (EPD) had capacity to carry out its  out its recurrent activities in school census,
execution of school census and      recurrent activities - school census,  budgeting, school mapping, and education
presentation or statistical reports  budgeting, school mapping, and educaton  management information. Annual
preparation of project documents and  management information.             statisUcal abstracts now produced on Ume.
support to donor organizations in
development of projects within framework
of govemments live year investment plan
improved policy analysis improved
utilizabon of other data sources (exam
results, national census of populaton, etc)
for policy formulation improved monitoring
and evaluation of development projects.
Summative evaluation of investment
projects with assessment of overall project
impact
Higher quality and more relevant primary  Syllabi developed for grade 1-7(s) in four  -  Volume 2 of curriculum also
curriculum.                          subjects. 30,000 copies at grades 1-4  developed and distributed.
Revised syllabus in four core subjects and  syllabi distributed but without guidance for  -  More copies (being printed of both
two non-core subject areas.          teachers of schools. Textbooks revised.  volume for each teacher to have personal
Revised textbooks in four core subjects (to  Teachers guides in four subjects.  copies. Training of teachers on new
manuscript level).                                                        curriculum is underway, new book lists
Revised teacher guides in six subjects.                                   have been agreed and orders placed.
Improved national examinations and
greater utilization of exam results'
revised curriculum.
Continuous Assessment introduced in  Same.
Introducton of continuous assessment in  grades 5 and 6.
Schools.
Increased proportion of examination items  Test specifications changes. Queston  Same.
examining higher order cognitive and  setters instructed in new requirements.
problem-solving skills.
Inclusion of continuous assessment scores  Scores not included in overall assessment  Same.
in overall student assessment and criteria  in admission process for higher level of
for admission to higher levels of the  system.
education system.
Upgrade UNEB building and printing   UNEB building completed but provides  Same.
equipment                           inadequate space. Printing machine
procured but not installed for core
examining activities, but does include
capacity for incorporating CA scores.
- 29-



Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Teacher newsletter with exam results and  Examination results provided to teachers -  Same.
recommendations on improving teaching.  impact on instruction minimal.
Improved instruction utilizing examinaUion
results.
National assessment of educational   National Assessment of Progress in    Same.
performance, every three years.      Education conducted in 1996, 1997 and
1999.
Plans exist for implementing periodic
assessment
Expand project implementation capacity,  - PIU capacity improved over life of  Several officers in line MoES and PIU have
timely project implementation on all  project as well as document preparation.  attended capacity building courses locally
reporting including preparation of   -  Ministry capacity uncertain.       and abroad.
semi-annual and annual progress reports,
annual work programmes; and documents
required for the mid-term review.
Conduct critical studies and strengthen  Studies of book policy, secondary
research and analysis capacity, timely  education and costs and financing of
delivery and quality of specific studies,  teacher education completed.
higher staff morale and lower attrition
improved administrative efficiency.  Quality and impact of book study high,
quality and impact of costs and financing
study high.
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
I. Improving Primary School Teaching and Management
A. Teacher Development & Management System (TDMS)  28.70           29.80         103.8
B. Facilities: Primary School/Teachers Colleges & Tutor  23.90     39.30           164
Wing
C. Provision of Learning Resources                 27.10           17.60          64.9
D. Revitalizing Private Sector Publishing & Printing  0.60          0.70           117
II. Enhancing Strategic MOES Functions
A. Strengthening Planning and Policy Analysis       2.50            2.30            92
B. Upgrading Management and Information Systems     2.50            3.00           120
C. Reforming Curriculum and Examination              3.90           3.80            97
D. Building Project Implementation Capacity          3.00           5.00           166
Total Baseline Cost                                92.20          101.50
Physical Contingencies                             2.60
Price Contingencies                                 9.30
Total Project Costs            104.10         101.50
Total Financing Required            104.10         101.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.    TotalCost
1. Works                     15.60        3.70          0.00         0.00        19.30
(15.60)       (3.70)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (19.30)
2. Goods                     13.70         2.60         1.00        25.00        42.30
(13.70)       (2.60)       (1.00)      (25.00)      (42.30)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00        10.10         0.00        10.10
Consultancies               (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         5.90        25.00        30.90
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     29.30         6.30         17.00        50.00       102.60
(29.30)       (6.30)       (1.00)       (25.00)     (61.60)
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other'        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        17.68         10.46          0.00          0.00         28.14
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        6.78           4.00          2.78          25.00        38.56
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                     3.64           3.03          0.00          0.00          6.67
Consultancies                   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          24.00         24.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        28.10          17.49         2.78          49.00         97.37
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
"Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)                        |_erenag_O_Aprisl_
Percentage of Appria
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Aclual/Latest Estimate   l
IDA       Govt.     CoF.      IDA       Gout.     CoF.    IDA    Go-lI.  CoF.
Improving Primary School  4.80     0.00      25.00     4.80                25.00   100.0   0.0    100.0
Management & Instruction
Rehabilitating &         28.90     0.00      1.50      28.40     10.90              98.3   0.0     0.0
Constructing Facilities
Providing Learning       3.80      25.00     0.00      3.60      14.00              94.7   56.0    0.0
Resources
Revitalizing Private Sector  0.70  0.00      0.00      0.70                        100.0   0.0     0.0
Publishing & Printing
Enhancing Strategic      14.40     0.00      0.00      14.10                        97.9    0.0    0.0
MOES Functions
TOTAL                    52.60     25.00     26.50     51.60     24.90     26.50    98.1   99.6   100.0
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
07-08/1991                  8    1 Senior Educational Specialist,
1 Architect, I General Educator,
I Economist, I Teacher
Training Specialist,
I Curriculum & Textbook
Specialist,
I Examination Specialist,
I Human Resource Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1991                     6    1 Senior Education
Specialist, 1 Architect,
I General Educator,
1 Economist, I Teacher
Training Specialist,
I Curriculum & Textbook
Specialist
Supervision
02/1994                      4  3 Education Specialists (of        S            HS
which 1 Task Manager),
I Implementation Specialist
09/1994                      1   1 Implementation Specialist       S            HS
10/1995                     4    1 Implementation Specialist,      S             S
I Social Sector Specialist,
1 Economist, 1 Consultant
03/1996                      5   1 Textbook Specialist,            S             S
I Implementation Specialist,
I Social Sector Specialist,
I Senior Advisor,
I Economist
10/1996                      7   1 Senior Economist, I USAID       U             S
Consultant, I ODA Consultant,
1 Social Sector Specialist,
I Finance Consultant,
1 Netherlands Consultant,
I Economist
05/1997                      4   1 Economist, I Decentralization   U             U
Specialist, I Education
Specialist, I Finance
Management Specialist
11/1997                      7  3 Education Specialists,           U             U
I Operations Officer,
I Procurement Specialist,
2 Architects
- 34 -



07/1998                      5    1 Economist, I Program Officer,    U             S
I Architect Consultant,
I Financial Analyst, 1 Engineer
11/1998                      7    1 Economist, 2 Education           U             S
Specialists, I Operations Officer,
I Procurement Specialist,
1 Civil Engineer, 1 Architect
04/1999                      8    1 Economist, I Macroeconomic       S             S
Specialist, 1 Program Officer,
I Finance Management
Specialist, 2 Construction
Specialists, 1 Disbursement
Specialist, 1 Education Specialist
04/1999                      1    1 Operations Officer               S             S
10/1999                      4    1 Operations Officer, 1 Senior     S             S
Education Specialist, I Education
Consultant, I Economist
04/2000                      2    1 Senior Education Specialist,     S             5
1 Operations Officer
10/2000                      2    1 Senior Education Specialist,     S             S
1 Operations Officer
03/2001                      8    1 Operations Officer, I Teacher   HS             S
Development Specialist, I Exams
& Assessment Specialist,
1 Curriculum Specialist,
1 Policy and Planning Specialist,
1 Instructional Materials
Specialist, I Architect Specialist,
1 Senior Education Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  [                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                95.2                       221.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                     64.7                       169.6
Supervision                            218.51                       534.60
Total                                  378.41                        926.1
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3 Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                      *H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Z Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Financial                            * H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
X Institutional Development            0 H  O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
3 Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
N Gender                         O H OSUOM * N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM      ON   O NA
HIVIAIDS response
LK Private sector development          0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
F Lending                                          OHS   OS     *U    OHU
3 Supervision                                      OHS*S        OU    OHU
? Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
? Preparation                                      OHS OS       C U   O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     O U   0 HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       C U   O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Uganda - Primary Education and Teacher Development Project,
Report No. 10320-UG, March 19, 1993.
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 38 Million to the Republic of Uganda for
a Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, March 19, 1993.
3. FACT: Financial and Cost Application, Project UG-PE-2953-Primary Education and Teacher
Development Project: Labor Costs and Labor Staff Weeks, 1988-1999.
4. Development Credit Agreement, Primary Education and Teacher Development Project between the
Republic of Uganda and International Development Association, June 22, 1993.
5. Reports: Implementation Supervision Mission, Aide Memoirs, Statement of Mission Objectives,
Mid-Term Review, Education Sector Review, Supervision, Back-to Office, Project Status.
6. Letter of Sector Policy, 1993.
7. Country Brief, Republic of Uganda - Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, December
1992.
8. Republic of Uganda Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, The Government White
Paper on the Report of the Education Policy Review Commission.
9. Policy Framework Paper, 1992/1993.
10. Uganda National Examinations Board, National Assessment of Progress in Education, 1996-1999.
11. Implementation Completion Report (IDA-30490) to the Republic of Uganda for an Education Sector
Adjustment Operation, June 1, 2001.
13. Uganda Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, Summary of Outcome of Negotiations,
February 1993.
14. Uganda Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, Technical Assistance Reports.
15. Financial Statements, Cost Action Plans, Disbursement Status, 1994-1998.
16. Uganda Education Sector Joint Government/Donor Review of ESIP, 1999.
16. Uganda Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, Summary of Budget, Expenditure and
Commitments by Cost Category, June 2000.
17. Uganda Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, Quarterly Report April - June 2000.
18. Republic of Uganda Ministry of Education and Sports Project Implementation Unit, Status Report,
December 31, 2000.
19. Republic of Uganda Ministry of Education and Sports, Semi-Annual Progress Report, January - June
1995.
20. Republic Government of Uganda Monitoring of Learning Achievement Project, October 1999.
21. PETDP Uganda Final Supervision Mission, March 2001.
22. PETDP Uganda Project Summary Report, April 26, 2001.
23. PETDP Uganda Report on the Examinations & Assessment Component, April 2001.
24. PETDP Uganda Final Supervision Mission - Report on the Teacher Development & Management
Systems (TDMS) Component, April 2001.
25. PETDP Uganda Project Completion Mission - Review of Education Policy & Planning, March 2001.
Additional Annex 8: Letter of Sector Policy (see attached)
- 38 -



Additional Annex 9: Borrower's Evaluation: Executive Summary
1.0 SITUATION BEFORE PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
(PETDP)
1.1 At the time of Independence in 1962 and throughout the 1960s, Uganda had one of the most developed
Education Systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. The political turmoil and wars that characterized the years of
the 1970s to early 1980s, devastated the education sector. By the time the National Resistance Movement
(NRM) Government came to power in 1986, the bulk of the infiastructure (both social and physical), of the
education system had disintegrated.
1.2 The coming to Power of National Resistance Movement (NRM) and the Primary Education
Reform Programme (PERP)
When the NRM took over power, it initiated the Education Reform Programme by appointing the
Education Policy Review Commission (EPRC) in 1987. The EPRC was charged with the responsibility of
investigating the Education System and making recommendations for improving the system.
1.3 Findings of the EPRC
The Commission made a lot of findings but for purposes of this report we shall dwell on those pertaining to
primary education, and these include:
*   Curriculum was found to be irrelevant to the national development goals and aspirations.
*   Quality of Education was found to be very poor due to a number of factors, some of which were as
follows: (a) inadequate numbers of trained teachers and therefore dependence to untrained teachers who
formed about 56% of the teaching force; and (b) lack of instructional materials (such as books and
equipment).
* High drop out and repetition rates reducing the overall completion rate to about 35%.
*   Attrition of teachers from the teaching service due to unattractive conditions of service and lack of
motivation.
*   Out moded and ill-equipped teacher training programmes.
*   Inadequate accessibility to education due to poor enrollment (only 54% of the school going-age children
were attending school), coupled with regional inequality in access to education and imbalance between
the rural and urban areas.
*   Gender disparity in enrollment and completion rates. The completion rates for boys were found to be
about 48% while that of girls was 29%.
* Inadequate and poor state of physical infrastructures.
* Inefficient utilization of resources characterized by inadequate allocation of resources to the Education
Sector as well as inappropriate allocation within the sector.
1.4 Recommendations by the EPRC
Some of the recommendations of the Commission on Primary Teacher Education which were adopted and
incorporated into the Govermnent White Paper on Education were as follows:
- 39-



* Review of the Primary Teachers Education (PTE) syllabus to meet the current needs.
* Renovation, repair and replacement buildings and equipment in Primary Teachers College as a matter
of priority.
* Reduction of the number of Primary Teachers Colleges (PTCs) to a manageable number consolidate
and equip them for the most optimum benefit.
* Conducting on-the-job training for the untrained teachers.
* Conducting a crash training of teachers to meet UPE demands.
* Emphasizing better planned and more equitable distribution of educational facilities in terms of
buildings and instructional materials.
1.5 Interventions to Improve Education Standards Prior to PETDP
In such a situation where education suffered the worst casualty, attempts were made to maintain and
improve on education through localized in-service teacher education. These included Lake Mburo Teacher
Education Project in Mbarara, National Community College at Bushenyi, Mubende Integrated Teacher
Education Project (MTEP), Adventist Rakai Integrated Teacher Education (RITEP) and Northern
Integrated Teacher Education Project (NITEPP), Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) and several
"ITEPs" conducted at various colleges in addition to their pre-service Training Programme. Unlike PETDP
which came to succeed all these endeavours and handled the reform activities holistically, these projects
were geared to solving one item or aspect of education, leaving the majority of demands untouched.
2. LAUNCHING OF THE PERP AND PETDP
In order to address the above deficiencies in the Education System, the PERP was launched in 1993 with
PETDP as the main project to implement most of the recommendation of the EPRC.
2.1 The Broad Sectoral Goals of PETDP
The project was started to contribute to the achievement of the Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES)
long term objectives of Access, Relevance, Quality and Equity in the education sector by reforming the
pattern of resource mobilization and allocation in the sector and through appropriate institutional reform
and strengthening.
2.2 Specific Component Objectives of the PETDP
The PETDP had a number of specific objectives which were implemented through various components.
2.3.1 Component 1: Improving Primary School Teaching and Management
This component aimed at improving the quality of instruction at the primary level by establishing the
Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS). TDMS was designed to consist of a network of
Core PTCs within core PTC linked to about 25 coordinating centre schools and each coordinating centre
school linking about 10 outreach primary schools. The original target was to establish the TDMS network
in 10 out of the original 38 districts in Uganda, to support the effort. The objective of this component (of
improving primary school teaching and management) was quite relevant to the overall sectoral goal of
improving the quality of education. Nevertheless, the design of the project did not provide for the means of
either measuring or verifying the impact of the outputs of this component.
- 40-



2.4 Sub Component 1 (a) - The establishment of the TDMS network
Under the PETDP, TDMS network was established under 10 Core PTCs with 298 coordinating schools
and a total of 5000 outreach schools. The number of districts have ended up being 25 instead of 10 as
originally envisaged because of the creation of new districts within the same project area. The Core PTCs
under the TDMS were supposed to perform a number of tasks namely: (a) pre-service training; (b)
in-service training; (c) teacher education curriculum development; and (d) management training for primary
education managers (headteachers, PTC Principals, DEOs etc).
The TDMS is a uniquely good innovation of decimating educational services (ideas, policies, instructional
materials and facilities), simultaneously in all parts of the country. Through the next work, Coordinating
Centre Tutors (CCTs) who have been facilitated through the project are residents and they operate in all
parts of the country offering professional guidance to the teachers and carrying out supervisory and
monitoring work in the schools.
2.5 TDMS Activities (Sub Component)
The above tasks have been executed as follows:
i) PTE (Grade III) Curriculum Development
The aim of this sub-component of TDMS was to revise the Grade III PTE Curriculum, to tum it into
modular form to facilitate the training of in-service and pre-service primary teachers. This task was
executed according to the SAR target. Nineteen (19) PTE, five headteachers management training and six
outreach tutor training self study modules were developed. The relevance of the modules lay in the fact
that they afforded the students, the opportunity to explore knowledge and skills and leam on their own.
This mark a satisfactory innovation in the teaching/learning process, especially in Primary Teacher
Education Programme.
ii) PTE Service Training for Untrained Teachers
This programme was and has remained the core activity of the Core PTC. It was designed to train
untrained serving teachers through distance education. This programme is rated as Highly Satisfictory
because:
*   Performance exceeded the targets. Whereas the target was to train 5000 untrained teachers, actually
5223 were enrolled and trained, (104.5%).
* The performance of the candidates trained through this programme matches very well with those
trained through the traditional (pre-service) programme. This enables teachers to remain serving while
training, which bridges the shortfall in teachers supply.
*   The candidates trained through this programme are willing to remain and service in their remote areas
where candidates passing through pre-service programme are unwilling to serve.
iii) In-service Refresher Course for Teachers (Continuous Professional Development)
This course which is a continuous programme, was aimed at training practicing teachers and headteachers
in the improved use of schemes of work, lesson plans and basic instruction materials methods as well as
imparting the trainees with different teaching methods and skills in relation to the curriculum and primary
-41 -



syllabus. It was intended that up to 63,000 practicing teachers would undergo training. Under this project,
so far 45,784 have been trained. This programme is rated as Satisfactory (72.7%) though there is lack of
framework for a systematic coordination of its activities.
iv) Outreach Tutor Training
(Complementary Teacher Training Programme)
The purpose of this programme was to enable the Core PTC outreach staff to acquire, internalize and
practice the knowledge and skills they needed in order to training the PTE in-service student teachers. The
trained tutors have been posted to coordinating schools to work as coordinating centre tutors (CCTs). 358
outreach staff including OCs and PTC administrators have been trained. This programme has been
effective satisfactorily (92.2%) because:
*   The CCTs make regular visits in schools in their clusters to offer guidance and monitoring to the
teachers (in the classrooms).
*   The CCTs compliment the role of district inspectors in supervising and monitoring teaching in schools.
The CCTs have been very handy where the supervision function of the education system has been
weak. For that matter the CCTs have played the central role in the TDMS programme and in as far as
improving school learning.
v) Management Training
Management Training for Primary Education Managers including Headteachers, Districts Education
officials and School Management Committees was to be conducted. The purpose was to increase
management capacity and improve primary education standards. So far, out of the target of 8000
headteachers (countrywide) 7414 (92.7%) have been trained and out of these, 3863 have been trained under
PETDP funding and out of 330 districts officials, so far 108 have had some training. The training of
headteachers has had a positive effect on the management of the schools. The headteachers themselves,
teachers, education officers and school management committees, all acknowledge that there has been
positive change especially in terms of greater delegation of responsibilities, increase in curriculum and
classroom supervision, more productive approach to school development. For many headteachers however,
the challenge remains, with regard to the level of implementation or application of the knowledge and skills
acquired through their training. The performance is Satisfactory.
vi) Community Mobilization
Community Mobilization activity was meant to mobilize parents and local communities to actively
participate in improving the quality of their schools and the academic performance of their children. Two
(2) Volunteer Community Mobilizers (VCMs) per school have been identified and trained. The impact is
remarkably high. Through this programme, a sense of ownership for the TDMS activities was created
among the communities. This programme was later to prove even more useful when the Universal Primary
Education Programme was launched. Parents were mobilized to take their children to school and retain
them in school especially the girls. There is also an increased interest by parents in their children's
academic performance at school as well as monitoring other school activities. While this was not
financially considered in the original design, it has made a Satisfactory success.
- 42 -



vii) Promotion of Girls' Education (PGE)
Promotion of Girls' Education (PGE) was handled by CCTs in collaboration with the District Education
Officials. The purpose was to mobilize and sensitize school authorities and communities to support girls'
education. Girls are also encouraged to persist in school until they at least complete primary school cycle.
So far 954 schools in 15 pilot districts have benefited from the Ushs.2013 million disbursed by USAID to
start projects as a strategy to support the girls and disadvantaged children. This campaign has made a
Satisfactory beginning, especially under UPE.
2.6 Sub Component l(b) Rehabilitating and Construction of Facilities (Civil Works)
Ten Core PTCs have been constructed under the project. The quality of work is good. The Core PTCs
under went changes in scope in order to improve on the design as well as to provide additional dormitories
and other facilities to cater for the increased in-take of students. This gave rise to increase the budget.
i) Coordinating Centres
According to the SAR, 200 coordinating centres were targeted to be constructed at 200 schools and later on
revised to 250. With the expansion of the TDMS network, however, 298 (119.2%) coordinating centres
were actually constructed. Also the design underwent changes to improve on the structures. This also gave
rise to budgetary increases. This achievement is Highly Satisfactory.
ii) Classroom Construction
A total of 2640 classrooms were planned to be rehabilitated (or constructed). It had been envisaged that
communities would be mobilized to contribute resources towards construction. Although communities in a
few districts made some contribution, in many districts community contribution was not realized.
Additionally due to high demand, the number of classrooms constructed rose to 2782. There was also a
need to improve on the scope for the structures constructed to include plastering and shattering. Although
these factors led to an increase in the budget, the achievements were Satisfactory regarding SAR target.
The objective of classroom construction was to improve the pupil learning environment, enable increased
pupil enrollment as well as to reduce the pupil/classroom ratio. However, due to the sudden rise in
enrollment of pupils arising from the UPE policy, it was not possible to realize certain aspects like the
reduction in classroom/pupil ratio. Therefore, improvement of quality learning remains Unsatisfactory.
iii) Construction of UNEB Headquarters
New buildings to house the headquarters for UNEB were constructed and fully furnished. The quality of
work was good. Due to inadequacy of the budget, the buildings are not sufficient to accommodate all the
functions of the institution. A new printery was also constructed, and a modem printing press was
procured and installed. Although there is yet need for expansion, what has been constructed, according to
the original quotations, is a Satisfactory performance.
- 43 -



2.7 Instructional Materials Unit
i)   Component Objectives
The original objectives of the component were to:
*   Achieve national target ratios in the provision of textbooks and teacher's guides for the four core
subjects in the primary school curriculum as the basis for a significant improvement in educational
quality and learning outcomes.
*   Provide national access to a range of supplementary reading materials for P.5 to P.7.
*   Create a national book market via the active involvement of private sector publishers, printers,
booksellers and book distributors in the process of textbook development, production and supply.
* Provide competing, alternative textbooks for all primary school subjects.
*   Establish school based decision making and school based choice against allocated school budgets as the
basis for textbook selection and to develop school level management and decision making and school
based choice against allocated school budgets as the basis for textbook selection and to develop school
level management and decision making capacity.
*   Review and develop ongoing book sector policy and strategy.
ii) Achievement of Objectives
Between 1995 and 1999 a total of 6,325,081 textbooks and teachers' guides were produced by the IMU to
a value of approximately US$30 million. It is difficult to estimate the average level of provision actually
achieved by the PETDP by March 2001, but informed estimates suggest that the current average level of
textbook provision in primary schools is probably somewhere around 1:10 per subject per grade level.
A significant textbook market has been created in Uganda by PETDP and the previous state domination of
authorship, publishing and distribution has been ended. The local private sector publishing industry of
Uganda has benefited greatly from the establishment of the IMU and the provision of regular book budgets.
There has been a marked growth in the number, size, skills and financial viability of publishers with fully
functioning offices in Uganda.
The PETDP supported a fundamental instructional materials policy and strategy review, which took place
during 1999 and 2000. As a result of this policy and strategy review a major program of reforms was
approved and initiate by the MOES in December 2000, with the full support of Education Funding
Agencies Group (EFAG).
Outside Kampala, local printing capacity has developed relatively little. Publishers were free under the
terms of the project to select their printing from whatever sources provided the best value for money.
Unfortunately, until there is serious investment in upgrading local printing and binding plant and
developing higher standards of output and cost and quality control. Ugandan printing will probably always
be at a disadvantage in competition with other more developed printing centres.
- 44 -



On the positive side the component has delivered a number of extremely important reforms, which will
form the basis for a more effective approach to instructional materials which will form the basis for a more
effective approach to instructional materials provision in the future. In this context, probably the most
significant achievement has been the maintenance of an ongoing policy and strategy debate on instructional
materials provision between the MOES, donors and other stakeholders, which has enabled the identification
of critical problems and their solutions and the regular adjustment of the component to meet new
challenges. Provision of instructional materials is an on-going process. Its present status of performance is
satisfactory.
2.8 COMPONENT 2: ENHANSING STRATEGIC MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SPORTS
FUNCTIONS
i) Production of Primary Schools Syllabus - Reforming Curriculum
This was done under the auspices of the National Curriculum Development Centre. The production of
Primary School Syllabus and related instructional materials was based on the proposed Primary Education
Curriculum. This was accomplished with all primary school subjects covered in two volumes and teacher's
guides. Each school in the country has received two copies of each of the two syllabuses and related
teachers' guides.
ii) Examination Reform
The Examination Reform activities in terms of National Assessment of Progress in Education (NAPE) and
Continuous Assessment (CA) were handled by UNEB which also handles all national examinations at all
levels. NAPE and CA deal with improvement of performance of pupils in the core subjects namely
English, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. These reform activities were handled through training
seminars and practical activities with the district officials, the outreach staff, headteachers, and
coordinating centres. Total participants were as follows: 200 headquarter staff, 56 DEOs and Ministry of
Education officials, 56 DISs, 21 Districts Secretaries for Education, 6000 Headteachers and 5000
teachers. The impact of teaching/learning process and evaluation is satisfactory.
iii) Strengthening Planning and Policy Analysis under Education Planning Unit (EPU)
Under this sub-component, the PETDP was going to help the Government have EPU strengthened to carry
out its recurrent responsibilities. Accordingly, a number of Reform activities were partially being financed
by PETDP funds and perforned by EPU. They included:
*   Establishment of professional sections of statistics, finance and budgeting, planning and project
preparation, studies and aid coordination and research and evaluation. Of these, four professional
sections were established, namely: Education Planning and Project Formulation, Budgeting, Research,
Monitoring and Evaluation and Statistics.
*   Provision of equipment - A number of computers, a vehicle and a photocopier were provided.
*   Provision of Local and Foreign Technical Advisors for each of established sections. All four TAs were
provided of whom three were foreign and one local TA who handled statistics.
*   Staff development whereby a good number of staff benefited from short courses, seminars and
workshops, both within and outside the country.
*   Development of capacity to carry out the recurring activities in EPU. Reports indicate that capacity
was effectively developed to carry annual school census, budget preparation and school mapping for
both primary and secondary schools.
- 45 -



*   The project has funded the design and establishment of the Educational Management Information
System (EMIS). The system is now functional throughout the country. EDP is now well-staff and
adequately equipped and'is capable of performing its recurrent activities. This component is therefore
rated satisfactory.
2.9 The Provision of Logistical Support
The implementation of PETDP included the procurement of various logistical equipment and supplies,
which were distributed to various Ministry Departrnents, institutions and districts to facilitate the
implementation of the project activities and reform programmes. These items included the following:
* Facilities to ease the movement including motor vehicles, motor cycles tractors, bicycles and a motor
boat.
* Assorted office equipment including Computers, Photocopiers, Cupboards, Filing Cabinets and
Duplicators.
* Textbooks and teachers' guides together with other printed materials including modules and charts.
*   Consultancies and technical assistance to strengthen EPD and PIU, UNEB, EMIS and teachers'
personal records.
* Although there were some delays and shortcomings in deliveries, the performance was generally
satisfactory.
3.0 FINANCIAL RESOURCES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PETDP INCLUDED:
GOU Counterpart Funding                                       US$      25.OM
World Bank Credit Funding                                     US$    52.791M
USAID Project Grant (managed by super project)                US$       25.OM
USAID Non-Project Grant                                       US$       83.OM
Community Contribution (estimated)                            US$        1.5M
Total                                                         US$    187.291M
4.0 FACTORS AFFECTING PERFORMANCE
The PETDP was started in 1993 and was planned to be completed by 1998. It however ended in 2001.
The were a number of factors that impacted the implementation of the project. Although these varied from
component, there were some crossing cutting factors which in general affected the implementation process
of the project.
4.1 Managerial Problems
The implementation of the project for the first five years (1993-1998) was beset by managerial problems.
The project management at the time failed to cope with the numerous implementation procedures required
by the Bank. They also failed to create a proper working relationship with the MOES Departments and the
other institutions involved in the implementation of the project. As a result, the project stalled. The
situation however improved drastically with the appointment of the current management in 1998. The
current management brought with it adequate skills, experience with World Bank procedure as well as
familiarity with the district local government systems. As a result the implementation process gained
considerable momentum and the project was completed in June 2001.
- 46-



4.2 The Role of the World Bank
In recent years (1998-2001), the World Bank has played a very supportive role. The Bank has been quick
in offering "No Objections" and the project management has enjoyed, especially from the Resident Mission
staff, considerable technical support and guidance which enabled the implementation to gain speed after
1998. However, during the years before 1998, the Bank's role was characterized by delays and
procrastination in granting "No Objections" and delayed honoring of Withdrawal Applications by the Bank
made it difficult for the project's remittances of funds for construction to the districts, to meet the demand
by the contractors; hence leading to delays in construction. However, the Bank performed satisfactorily in
guiding and supervising the implementation of the project to a satisfactory completion.
4.3 Some Deficiencies in the Project Design
The project implementation procedures were established before the decentralization system of government
took root in Uganda Therefore some of the processes like the procurement of materials and works for
classroom and coordinating centres were initially centralized. However, as decentralization began to take
root, such centralized procedures of procurement became unacceptable and unworkable in the districts
where classrooms and coordinating centres were supposed to be constructed. This led to delays in the
construction of classrooms and coordinating centres. In spite of delays and shortcomings, the end results
were satisfactory.
4.4 Capacity in the Districts
In 1998 classrooms and coordinating centres construction was decentralized to the districts. The District
Engineering Departments lacked adequate capacity to handle works of this magnitude. This led to delays in
construction as well as poor quality works by the contractors as a result of inadequate supervision.
4.5 Government Role
The Government of Uganda should be commended for meeting its counterpart funds obligation to the
project, despite the tight budget the government always operated. Nevertheless, occasional delays in
counterpart funds releases affected the implementation pace, especially the decentralized construction of
classrooms and coordinating centres which always required regular and large releases of funds to the
districts.
4.6 Local Communities Contribution
In many districts the local communities embraced this project with enthusiasm and they made commendable
contribution to its implementation. However, in some districts the local communities failed to contribute
materials for classroom construction. This affected the pace of implementation of this component. Two
Volunteer Community Mobilizers (VCMs) per school were identified and trained under the Community
Mobilization Component of TDMS. Due to lack of funds to facilitate their activities, many of the CVMs
dropped out and those that persisted were ineffective. The assumption that VCMs would discharge their
responsibilities without any form of facilitation was flawed.
- 47 -



5.0 THE OVERALL SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPACT
Although there is so far, no qualitative empirical evidence to prove the impact of the project on pupil
learning it has made a lot of undeniable contributions to the education system in Uganda. In this section we
shall examine the impact of the various components of the project.
i) Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS)
TDMS was intended to support the effort of Govermnent in improving the quality of instruction at primary
education level. The TDMS network has been accepted and adopted as the most appropriate delivery of
the primary education reform activities. This system will outline the project. To date the TDMS Network
has been extended to cover the entire country - it is operational in 18 Core PTCs, 539 coordinating schools
and the entire government aided primary schools.
ii) Reversal of decline in the system
Before the project, the education system had been experiencing a general trend at decline. The system had
been characterized by very low levels of government funding, a demoralized and largely untrained teaching
force, as well as very poor physical infrastructure. There was a general level of despondence among the
population especially the parents. This trend of invents has been reversed with government allocating
about 30% of its recurrent expenditure to education and with the introduction of UPE. The bulk of the
primary teachers are now trained, several physical infrastructures (Classrooms and PTCs) have been
constructed and a sense of hope for the future of education has been created.
The establishment of the TDMS network and the outreach tutor system. With the tutors spread throughout
the whole country even the school teachers, pupils and the communities in the remotest area can be reached.
There are efforts to spread the educational benefits evenly throughout the whole country to all Ugandan
children. "Increasing access to quality education for all Uganda children".
The establishment of the category of professional outreach teacher educators, who can handle outreach as
well as pre-service educational functions adequately and confidently is a remarkable innovation in Teacher
Education Programme.
Creation of the professionally trained head teachers is a new educational innovation. Reports indicate that
the head teachers qualified in Basic School Management Skills can make a difference because the
performance of a school is a reflection of the quality of the head teacher.
Distance Learning System in Teacher Education has been introduced to stay because of its inherent
benefits. The beneficiaries, PTE in service students, head teachers and outreach tutors have acquired
additional profession without any disruption of their jobs and families. The beneficiaries have learned how
to study on their own. They were able to learn and apply the acquired knowledge and skills instantly thus
proving the effectiveness of the system.
The inculcation of the "this job depends on me" attitude among teachers and learners is strong. Through
private study, through doing assignments in groups and individually through training, guidance and
counseling there is a great deal of commitment cultivated in the educational system. This is spilling over
into the society through community mobilization and participation.
- 48-



Educational performance has improved. Through in-service training programmes, professionalism has
been given momentum. Untrained teachers have acquired professional certification and the qualified
teachers have renewed their professional obligations through refresher courses and a lot of addition
knowledge and skills has been acquired through continuous professional development courses.
Consequently, the teachers' classroom performance has improved. The teachers prepare adequately, teach
effectively and mark pupils' work regularly.
Book Supply has made a very big change in education. One of the problems besetting education before the
reform was the absence of the instructional materials. Although the original target of the pupil book ratio
of 3:1 has not been achieved due to the intervention of UPE which increased the enrollment beyond the
expectations, the estimated number of more than 6,000,000 books are in the field and must have made a big
impact. However, the negative remarks from the field indicate that the absence of "class-sets" and the
guides to the use of the supplied books has failed teachers from using the books adequately.
Construction of classrooms and coordinating centres has contributed to the improvement of learning
atmosphere whereby pupils and teachers participate in environment conducive to learning and teaching
process. The process of the establishment and construction of coordinating centres and the staffing of
these premises with highly experienced teacher educators who conduct educational activities at the CCs has
accelerated accessibility by bringing quality education nearer to the people.
Community Mobilization
Community participation and the sense of ownership, is a new yet enthusiastically acceptable phenomenon
in educational innovations in Uganda. TDMS has made so much impressive impact on many stakeholders
who appreciate the new mode of educational innovations.
Overall Sustainability
Primary Education remains a major priority area in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan, and therefore, has
been given unwavering consideration in the Medium Term Budget Frameworks (MTBF). The major
reform components which started under PETDP, namely Teacher Development and Management,
Examination and Assessment, Classroom Construction, Distribution of Instructional Materials,
Improvement of Curriculum and Support to Policy and Planning are not only very relevant but they are
also major budget items within the MTBF. These components have been integrated into the various
Ministry Departments and Agencies. However, there is a need to consolidate the Primary Education
Reform achievements which have been acquired under the project by developing a reliable monitoring and
evaluation system to ensure that the intended school and child-level impacts are actually being attained in
the desired quantities and qualities. The plan for consolidating the improvements in the policy and planning
functions will need to be strengthened with the Ministry's human resources plan.
6.0 SUSTAINABILITY OF THE EFFORTS (Components) INITIATED BY TDMS
The TDMS has become institutionalized in the various Ministry departments and related institutions. For
example the ITEK has assumed the responsibility for PTE In-service, Outreach Tutor Training and
Management Training. ITEK is now budgeting for those activities. UJNEB retained the responsibility of
and is budgeting for the Examination Reform activities. NCDC is budgeting for the activities of
curriculum development. The Ministry of Education and Sports has made budgetary provisions for TDMS
development. The arrangements for sustainability of these reform activities in the post-project period are
satisfactory and the reform will continue.
- 49 -



7.0 LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
When PETDP was conceived and designed the policy of decentralization had not taken root. As a result
the districts were not involved adequately in the original design of the project. The implication of this has
been the inability of certain districts to appreciate the implementation procedures of the project activities.
In the future a more participatory approach which enables the implementators to participate in the project
formulation is recommended.
Institutionalization of the TDMS at the District Level
Although the TDMS has worked out well at the district level, there is no institutional arrangement for it
within the districts. There is a need to institutionalize the system in the districts or at least formalize the
relationships.
Maintenance of Physical Infrastructure
Substantial investment has been put in construction of classrooms, coordinating centres and Core PTCs.
Presently, there is no tangible budget either in the districts or in the Ministry itself to cater for the recurrent
expenditure requirements of these structures. There is a urgent need for the govermment to provide
resources for preserving this heavy investment.
TDMS coverage to include the private schools
At the moment although the TDMS network has covered the entire country, the private schools are not yet
covered. The pupils in the private schools are therefore not benefiting from some of the TDMS activities.
Additionally, out of the 40 Teachers Colleges only 16 have been attained the core PTC status. There is a
need to cover all the primary schools including the private ones, as well as to facilitate all the Teachers
Colleges.
World Bank Implementation Procedures
World Bank implementation procedures are often lengthy, cumbersome and sometimes difficult to follow.
Often they contribute to the delayed implementation of projects. The delayed implementation of PETDP
can be partially attributed to these lengthy procedures. Both the Bank and the government have drawn a
lesson from this and have opted for budget support system where programmes are implemented following
the borrowers own procedure.
INFORMATION ON THE PRINCIPAL DATA AND PERFORMANCE RATINGS
A. The Basic Project Data:
Report Date                                                October 2001
Name                                                       PETDP
Country/Department                                         Uganda
Sector Sub-Sector                                          MOES (TE, PPE)
LC Number                                                 IDA-CR 2943-UG
- 50 -



Region                                                   Africa Regional Office
Key Dates:
PCD - (LESP)                                             April 16, 1993
Appraisal                                                March 2000
Approval
Effectiveness
MTR                                                      July 26, 1996
Closing                                                  June 30, 2000
Borrower                                                 Government of Uganda
Implementing Agency                                      MOES (PIU)
Other Partners                                           USAID
Staff:                         Current                   At Appraisal
Vice President                 Callisto E. Madavo        Edward V. V. Jaycox
Country Manager                James W. Adams            Francis Colaco
Sector Manager                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka      Jacob Van Lutsenburg Maas
Team Leader of ICR             Patrick D. Murphy
ICR Primary Author             Penelope B. Bender
Team Leader of Appraisal
B. Principal Performance Ratings:
Principal Performance Ratings are as follows:
Outcome                                    S
Sustainability                             S
Institutional Development Impact           S
Bank Performance                           S
Borrower Performance                       S
QAG (if available)
ICR                                        S
Quality at Entry                           S
Project at Risk at any time                No



Additional Annex 10: Basic Primary Education Indicators
BASIC PRIMARY EDUCATION INDICATORS
1997          1998         1999          2000
Enrollment (millions)**                   5.2          5.8           6.5           6.8
ohm in Gov.-aided Schools*         4.7           5.2          5.9            6.1
GER***                                  124%         134%          145%          147%
NER                                     100%         100%          100%           97%
P1 pupils                                1.95          1.66         1.67          1.41
Teachers                               99,000      108,235      114,118        120,000
Teachers in Gov.-aided Schools
(Count)*                               84,150       99,000        97,000        102000
Teacher Establishment                  90,000       92,000       110,000       125,000
Teachers On Payroll                    65,000                                   94,000
Average annual teacher salary                                            $        733
Teachers trained under TDMS
Textbooks purchased (4 core
subjects), mill.                          2.1           1.5          1.2            2.1
Average book price                                                       $        4.70
Stock of permanent, complete
Classrooms.                           25,400        28,400       34,000        51,000
It is difficult to estimate what the average cost has been since the beginning of
UPE. For the future a common construction modality will be followed that
should lead to an average classroom cost of $ 5,000 (including fumiture and
Average Classroom Cost         latrines).
Teacher/Pupil Ratio                       56            53            60            60
Teachers on Payroll/Pupil Ratio           72                                        65
Textbook/Pupil Ratio****                    9           14             5             7
Classroom/Pupil Ratio                    184           184          172           120
Number of Schools piloting aouble
shifting
Number ot -c looIs piloting
multigrade
% Education/GDP                         2.9%          3.3%         4.1%           4.3%
Y Education/Recurrent Budget                                        30%           31%
% Primary/Tot. Recurrent
Education                                             64%           70%           72%
% Primary/Recurrent Budget                            20%           21%           22%
* Approximately 15% of the teachers and 10% of the pupils are in private schools.
** These figures are believed to be an overestimation. Staff estimated that the GER and the NER could
respectively be on average 10 and 5 percentage points higher than in reality.
* The GER in 1996 was 0.68 and the NER 0.42 without private schools.
**** Until 1999 the ratio was computed assuming a negligible stock at the beginning of UPE, and textbook life
of three years. For 2000 the PIU provided the ratio.
*Information based on ESAC 2000
- 52 -



AhMNXX 6
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
ERIMARY EDUCATION AND EhCHIER DEVEWPMEN7 PROJECT
THE GOVERN-MENT WHITE PAPER ON THE REPORT OF
THE EDUCATION POLICY REVIEW COMMlSSION
1.    eTh stances taken by the draft Governmeit White Paper on ImDlementation of the
Recmmendations of the Reron of the t-ducation Policy Review Commission on major issues are
J follows:
Concerning KM, the objective is to achieve Universal Primary Education not later than
the year 2001/02. Local district anm urban authorities will continue to be responsible for
provision of physical facilities. and local communities wiJl be !nobiized to provide
necessary labor and materials.l. In order to relieve household financial constraints to
enrollment, tuition at the primae level would be progressively abolished, one grade at a
time, beginaing in 1992/93 and to be completed by 1999/2000 School attendance would
be compulsory for those grades for which fees bave been abolished.
The uLaix of instructio-. would be impro-ed by expanding the supply of textbooks and
other instructioril materials. increasing teacbers salaries so that teachers can devote full
time to the teaching job. and strengthening both pre-service and in-service teacher training
(mcluding training the large number of untrained teacbers). The National Curriculum
Development Center and the Uganda National Examinatioas Board wiJl be provided with
adequate facilities, and otherwise strengtheied.
In order to address render disvarities, incrtased training of females as teachers and
administrators wiJl be undertaken, adequate facilities for girls will be provided in post-
primary institutions, and eiLher the Head or Deputy Head of a co-educational school
should be a woman. In addition, the abolition of primary tuition mentioned above is
expected to especially facilitate girls' earollnent.
The relationship between schooling and the world of work will be strengthened by
vocationaization throughout the primary and secondary cycles. The primary curriculum
wDll be revised to include agriculture and other pre-vocational skills, with a view toward
enabling individuals to make a living. All secondary schools would eventually become
Comprehensive Secondary Schools. offering )oth academic and vocational subjecs.
V Unsw do IDA4miUd Pmgamn to A1:cviatc Povut ud thw Sociai Coa of Adjufnmw (PAPSCA) and Xw IDA-
aid  oaim Ugaun Ronajuccon Pajcct (NURP). du Govemrt ua pmWing ky aAdml *1e. mach a
w_ laW piva. i, awo  aa. to com'mnuAe on a grn basi.



57                           ANNEX
Page 2 of 3
Concerning lanzug policy, Kiswahili, whicb presentld is offerei as an elective at some
secondary schools but is oot part of the primary curriculum, would be added as a
compulsory subject throughout the primary and secindary cvyles, to be given equal
empbasis wvith English and mathematics. 2'
Tbe financinjj strategy of the White Paper is to increase Central Govermnent budgetary
funding for the education sector; shift the distribution of Government expenditure
relatively toward primary, away from secondary and tertiary; and shift the distribution of
parental/beneficiary expenditure relatively away from prirnary, toward secondary and
tertiary.
2.    IMA welcomes and endorses most of the policies announced in the White Paper. In
particular. IDA endorses the shifts mentioned above in the distribution of Govermnent and
parental/beneficiary expenditure; this is consistent with Bank views as set out, for example, in the
Policy Paper on Primary Education. The initiatives to improve quality through improved teacher
training and compensation, and to address gender disparities, are also appropriate and welcome.
3.     However, the IDA staff have concerns about some of the White Paper proposals regarding
*vocationalization'. At the primary level, the White Paper recommends that occupational tainiaig
leading to employment should be a part of the curriculum. Wbile IDA endorses the need to relate
primary curriculum to the surrounding eaviroanment, especially in the teaching of science,
mathematics and social studies, IDA does not endorse costly occupational training to children who
are unlikely to be of age for gainful employment nor fully equipped for the tra-s,ition to work at
tbe end of the primary cycle.
4.     At the secondary level, studies of *diversified- or 'comprehensive' curricula in Tanzania,
Kenya, and other countries have found that such voca;ionalized curricula are more expensive than
general secondary education, and that graduates of su:b programs usually did not obtain
employment in fields in which they were trained, and did not receive economic benefits from their
more cost schooling. In other words, such programs are ineffective from the cost-benefit
perspective. The trend in developing countries bas therefore been toward structural separation of
trz!ning from general educatior.
S.     The Bank's Policy Paper on Vocational and Technical Education and Training (VEI)
emphasizes that providing young people with literacy. numeracy, and problem-solving skills, so
that they are trainable, is the best contribution that schools can make to the productivity and
flexibility of the work force, and that practical dkills are most effectively acquired in workplaces,
or in post-general education, non-workplace training facilities, which are 'demand driven'.
6.     The r1nancing chapter of the White Paper reflected an expectation that the Government
revenue performance would increae to '16-20% of GDP in the near future.' Unfortuately,
Governm:nt revenues have failed to increase as rapidly as boped e.'l'er. In the Policy
Framework Paper for 1992/93 - 1994/95, Government revenue i, shuwn as 7.3% of GDP in
1992/93, 9.8% of GDP in 1993/94, and 11.6% of GDP in 1994,95. La this context, the Bank
Z/ Unl in rTuuua and piu of Kenya. Kiawi it no a naz.wve languase in Us uda. ;Vhcm am five majotr indirgl;
lknVgae in Ugaud,  o( which i rkan by nwam thn m2 Sof X populLi,ir. EngLish s th langua used by
Covemmnr, mudium4o-luag sAle businea.., and Ute pofieuona



Ss                      AHMM
Pup 3 d S
tiff beieve dut t. Wdkk P1Vw don o a_mtdy r- o  b  kdpIe objecd  -
wu, qualky. voalomiz  , md koihd . of KkwoM u a oqImxy s
duagbout db cyd   d - may be wopiv.e w " uch cdr. Mm aww  nomwI mg  ' be
reallocal my fiS. d. zu_q Xwricuham, _wvd Lb1  1    d KbwI
inititives, indude am omly am, bu als si4 lwuig d  n twh.' j
wi.
7.   Ia win mog the objecvu se  le d. Kbi.h  PWw. Kb Dmk muf bdi.Y dba
acm (incuding fiml. ..rilm1). md lirv  do quuky of bmuul  ib. cm ad*=
of e  sdod auricmlum,  Kdb o  wich ds  hghSt pkxrky. 71T  p-M 13
RawSuuadoo an D.vdopmtK piojea km boa duipd wt ims I mv  b _hiL






A-%NEX a
o l                        Page 1 of 6
68/  u           MINISTMY OF FDrA4CE AND ECONOMIC
Ifl.6.g Un,     .        a nave.                        PLANNING.
or,,      Ma7A                                    P.O I BOX 1147.
, Law 6__3    .                                                  KAMALA. UCADA.
,,  -   na  ee,  us........ ..... . ...... _ _ . . ...... ...  _ e .m& 6. ins aa.
16 April 1993
Mr. Ed-mar.Vt'X. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
WASHINGTON
Dear Mr. Jaycox
RE: LETTER OF EDUCATION SErTOR POLICY
Tne purpose of this letter is to describe the education sector policies that we plan to follow
during the implementation of the proposed Education Reconstruction and Development Project
(IDA V). Specific actions ar included in the attached Action Plan.
Overall Develgpment Strategy
in recent years, the Government of Uganda has been implementing-a program of stabilization,
economic recovery, and structural adjustmenL  Our most recent statements nf developmenf
strtegy are in the Way Forward I and Way Forward n (1992), dealing with macroeconomic and
sectoral strategies rspectively; and the Policy Fmmework Paper for 1992/93 - 1994/95
(November 1992), which has already been circulated to the World Bank's Board. As indicated
in these statements, the role of public institutions will be to establish the infrastructure and
policy environment conducive to private sector development.  The ongoing process o'
libenlizadon, defined as 'moving toward policies which work through markets", will be
continued. We intend to further reduce bank financing of the Govnmrent budget deficit, in
order to retduce nlation. Our public expenditur strategy is to concentate expenditure on those
activities in which Government must play a leading funding role, and ensure that expenditures
within priority sectors are cost-effective.
Addidonally, in October 1992 the Decentralization progrm was launched by the President of
Uganda. As part of this program, control over field personnel will be shifted from Central
Govemment ministries to the local authority.



62                        ANNEX O
Page 2 of 6
Beginning with the 1993/94 financial yea, district votes wi". tbc crated in the natonal budget
initially for thirt  (13) districts so that recurrent expenditure for field-basid sences wiU be
sent to the Distrct directly, with the District Executive Secretary becoming the District
Accounting Offc. Ministry Hesadquarters will be sammliinid to a core of policy maken ,
p!aancr, and inspectors.
FAucation Sctor Polic
Like mott othe sectors, Uganda's education system suffered substantially between 1971 - 1985.
Following the restoation of peace in 1986, the Government initiated the process of reforming
and rec         the education system by estblishing an Education Policy Review Commission
in 1987. Th Commission submitted its Report in 1989. A short smtement on Education Policy
has been included in The Way Forw_d II S   c 1 Straty (1992). In addition, a detailed
Governmnent White baer on TmDlemnentadion of fth Recommendatiocs of the Report gf the
FAue2tion Policy Review Commission has been dnfted and presently is under discussion within
the country, befor eentual adoption. The prncipal objectives and policies which we intend
to pursue in the education seetor are decribed below.
We wish to incrase the population's aca to education. In particular, at th primary level,
the objective is to achieve Universal Primary Education by the year 2003. Local distric6 and
urban authorties will continue to be rponnble for provision of physical facilidies, and local
communides will be mobilized to provide necessary labour and iocally-available maeials. Tbe
(alornmrmt is prvirding key strueturl elementr, cuch c tn m  ac nd plvmisd ia shu, hw
local communiie, on a grant basis. We have been increasing Centml Govment budgeuary
funding for prmary educadon, and this taed will -^;ndnue, enabling primary tuidon fes
eventally to be reduced, thereby relieving the household financial constaint to enrollment
espocially for low income families. We place very high priority on Improving the giiaEt of
instruction. This will be accomplished by expanding the supply of setbooks and odher
inmuctional materials, increasing teachers' salaries so that teachen can devote full tme to Xt
teaching job, and strengthening both pr-sernce and in-service tesching tining (inctuding
training the lare number of untrained teachers). Finally, we wish to strngthen the relationship
between education and the job environment thrugh vocational progrms.
We intend to pursue these objectives by reforming the pattern of resource mobilization and
resource allocaen in the sector, and through appropriate instdtutional eform and strengthening.
At the prsent time, ducation subsidies (diffemnces between the price charged for the service,
and the cost of producing the service) are gratest at the university level, relatively less for
swcondary  duc*jon and primary teacher trining, and least at t!ie primay level. This is
inequitable, sine post-primary students, especially at the jniversity ;evel, tend to come minlv
fom rlatvely better-off households. At the primary level, the burden of fees leads to school
dropout, parclly among girls from poor households who ar sometimes puUed out of school
where the parents cannot afford fees for all the children. At poSd-pima  tevsk the prim
ted Infdher aucation y  cr%Vce dt e acrnts-thLotantfsuial( con  tw the coo  producing
ibm= In other words, untargetted across-the-board subsidization will be substantially reduced.



ANNEX 8
63                   Page 3 of 6
Concessional financing ( :nts or concessional loans) will be provided to poor but meritious
sUixasts to enable them to enroll at these levels of the system. Boarding subsidies at the
secondary level have already been discontinued, and boarding subsidies at the university level
will be progressively ph& ;d out. The increased mobilization of resources from students and
their oaets at post-rm&ay levels will allow 2 greater share of Central Govemnment exoendiiz,
Ca b~ dvo=d no dmlar 4iucAiujj, which is cridcally Important because of its economic and
social beseft.
Trained teachen who can devote adequate time to their teaching responsibilities are an essential
element of the education -ocess. Dudng the past two yeas, the Ministry of Education and the
bMinistry of Public Service, with the assistance of the Establishment and Staffing Control System
Prqect, have bM    engag_d in an effort to accurately determine the number of trained and
untrained teachers actually perforning teaching duties, and to ensure ihat the teaches' payroll
is restricted to such pesons. A census of the Teaching Service was carried out in 1991.
However, for some districts in the North and Northeast, it was necessary to rely on estimates
due to insecurity in some areas. During the time since the Census was conducted, there have
also bee staffing changes such as recruitment, transfers, and retirements. Following the
Ceuus, the number of persons on the Teaching Service payroll has been reduced from more
than 120,000, to about 114,900 at t.e present time, of whom about 92,500 are primary teachers.
Thee same numben will be the basis for the Budget esdmate for the Teaching Service payroll
for the 1993/94 financial year.
On the basis of questionnaire forms filled out by teachers, a computerized Database on teachers
has bLn established. During the period May 1993 through December 1993, officials will make
fidd visits to schools, assisted by local leaders, to audit and ediminate any discepancies,
including physical count of the teachers and school facilities. This wiln be done on a District
by District basis, four districts per month. Following the audit and verification exercise, a.
District Establishment Register, in which each post has a unique post control number, will be
established in each district. The Teaching Seowice Staff Register,-.which is required by the
Education Act. has recently oecn computerized, including attaching a unique staff number to
cach narne in the registcr.
Berining with the 1994/95 iinancial year, ceilings will be esta!,iished for each financial year
for tht number of primary toukaan whAsc, La.;. ,11 l. 1m. Gnaiicd Luti ite ecniral uovernment
budgeZ. In the determination of thcse ceilings, the following factors will be taken into account:
(a) Govenmat's monetary and fismit program which, u mcntioned earlier, nimi at reducing
inflation by lowering the budget deficit; (b) the priority to be given to upgrading untrained
teachers; (c) the objective of incresing teachers' nmuneiatioi; and (d) he long-term objective
of achieving Univeral Primary Educadon. During the next few yean, priorty wi11 be devoted
to upgrading of trainable untninod toaohers, and to a hieving the M61iliauiluivigig Wage.
Raspoeslbility for hiring, promotion, and dismissl of primay school teachers in U7 and UB
saly scla will rst with the District Teaching Service CommitLec. The reuitment and
discpline of prmary teachers in U6 saluy scale and above and all the teachers in the Teaching
Service is the responsibility of the Teaching Service Commission. Beginning with the 1993/94
financial year, funds for the primary teachar payroll will be transferted Jvlly rurini the
Treasury to the District Executive Secretary.



ANNEX 8
64                      Page 4 of 6
Li order to improve teaching quality, the Government plans to reorient teacher trining from its
current emphasis largely on pre-service training, to a more balanced three-pronged program of
pre-srvicc training, upgrading of unqualified teachers, and in-service twaining. The Priff&ary
Teachers Colleges to be financed under the Project will operate within a policy framework which
provides approprate institutional autonomy and accountability. Responsibility for hiring,
promotion, and dismissal of Primary Teachers Colleges staff will rest with the Teaching Service
Commission. As regards financial contribution by students in the Primary Teachers Colleges
towards feeding costs and other expenses, the matter is tbeing nationally examined, but the policy
of Primary Teachers Co11eges boarding will take into account the policy for boarding at post-
secondary instinttions generally. All institutions are to embark on income generating activities
to generate revenue to support the teachers, students and other staff members. Tnis would
support effofts t6 pay a Living Wage to teachers.
Consistent with the decisions which have been taken an Decentralization, the role of the Ministry
of Education and Sports will be to perform or sponsor strategic functions, such as: determining
core curricula; examnations; policy analysis and fornulation; planning and the surveillance of
trnds in inputs, outcomes, and efficiency; inspection; and publication of timely reports on the
status of education; and redrafting legislation to implement policies. The National Curriculum
Development Centre and the Uganda National Examinations Board will be provided with
adequite facilities, and otherwise strengthened to work closely with the Inspectorate in the
related areas of curriculum and examination development and professional support.
We recognise that, in the education sector as in other sectors, there is a need for improved
budgeting, accounting, and auditing. The Economic and Financial Management (EFM) Project
being financed by IDA, includes components for training and computcrization in Budget Reform;
accounting, and auditing. While all ministries will be eligible to benefit from the accounting and
auditing components, the Budget Reform component is targeted at five line ministries, one of
which is the Ministry of Education, in addition to the Budget Department in the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Sports has already
begun to revise personnel records and accounting systems under a PPF for the proposed project.
As will be supported under the Project, we are aiming at encouraging private sector development
in the production and distribution of textbooks and other instructional materials, with the role
of the public sector to be policy oriented (setting policies, formulating guidelines and monitoring
stndards), and to failitate a worldng market in instructional materials.
We am loodng forward continued collaboration with IDA, in the context of the fifth Education
Project, toward the achievement of these objectives.
Yours sincerely, 
J.S. Mayanja-Nkagii
MISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING



65                     ANEX8
Page 5 of 6
UGAINDA
Primary Education and Teacher Developmezat Project
Action Plan
The activities associated with the Primary Education and Teacher Development project include
procuremeat, policy measures, and institutional measures. Key policy and institutional measures are
listed below, while procurement activities are treated elsewbere.
Rdouincw the Patteni of Resource Mobiliation and
Regwiww Alilgocgo
Consult with IDA conceming the budget for the educatioa sector, for the   Febmary/March each
followiog fisca year, with the objective of progressively increasing      year.
Central Govemnmet expendihua  in primay education as a percentage of
total Central Govemnt expendition c0 edation, and as a peiventage
of Gross Dowestic Product.
AnalYze the relationship between  rollment, income, Lad other relevant    To be discussed.
variables, on the basis of the 1992 Integraed Survey, and drw out policy
impbca*ious of the findings. (To be finaced by SDA Study Fund.)
Shift bowding coss (mels, auonmda*ion, and related expenses) of           Schedule to be detennined
Univesity stuients ftfn Govenment budget onto beneficiaries, as soon as the  follo,wing approval of
White Papw is approved. Establish student loan scheme to enable           White Paper.
needy studets to finance  ch expean.
Teachimt Svice Estahisbhent and ..raol
Computerize the Teaching Segvice Staff Registr, including attaching a unique  Implemented April 1993
staff numuber to each snme in the regisr.
Carry out an audit and verificaiion of the tachers' payroll, based on field visits  May - December 1993
with the assistance of local leadas, and including physical count of school
fa'ilities and eachers.
Eablish a District Establiish nt Register, in whicb eacb post has a unique post  December 1993
cosirol outber, in each district.
Begining with the 1993/94 financial year, funds for the pnmay teacer      Beginning July 1993.
payroll will be rfcnsfered dicy from the TNaqry to the Distnct
Executive Soecrary.
Beginning wit te 19N/95 fincial year. ceilinp will be established. on tbe  Celuins to be establish
basis of Dctr ad out im th LSP, for eacb fincial year for the nrber of    Apri of each year,
pnmry lux        o em3 iaJanies will ba financed fom the Cetral Govemnet  beginning Aptd 1994.
bud_d_



66                    ANN     1
Page 6 of 6
Esablish Teac   D.veCpmmt Managent Syatemn (MS) Unit in the               SqAmb" 30, 1993
Ministry of EAwalion, and Dirict-leveJ TDMS Coordinating Comnittaos.
Tthe crinxia for dlectio of cmo FMC includs (a) catruqy of locaio to a
potenta networt of pri,nw    ls. (b) ao     to essetial infrasructure, (c)
eistog PrC physcal onditai,(d) possbility of hating. with coammity
consto.       C   faciliti to tbeir onginal fmcto a pany or _wodary
ool, and (e) potatid contribution of prnmy educao to dvehointL
Using theb crinmia, the folowimg coo PTFC sils have so far boe  Inctd by
the Goveruua Loro (Apec); Nakaseke (Luwero); Bu1e (Hoinm); and
(Mpigi). Necsszy data, including aaxollnit, number of trained aWd untrined.
teacers, and the location of priny cbools i these D icts shl be provided
upon IDA requw.
For the selctio n of additional com PTCa, guideie ad procedure, including  Decenber 31, 1993
the above cnteria, will be pre d which will ble al fTC. in the IDA-
arsd TDMS Diutrw      to be cond   d for inclusio i do TDMS progrm.
The selection   g eiintg PFTC. sa well a posmble now PTC ste, will be
uncentakai by the Dixtrict-leval TDMS Coordinating Comittoe in  tto
with the MOES.
The TDMS Unit, MOSS would pieae prototype rining progra     for the fiust  June 30, 1994
year for all in-evice. upgrding prmy scool teaces, h_edicerm, an
local nuasgeit stLff, e.g., DEOs, inspect, and PrA ad Masaemt
Committee Hesda.
Enable PTC Boada of Goverona to change fees, to be etined umdw cotol of   To be diumed
the iLstion, - th cndition that T     counts dunC be submitd to an anual
externalaui
Subniit for IDA review &and comnt a wvied priary curicwlum which           Dec        31, 1994
proecta atiiol     tin. for tho co  l sjects.
Submit for IDA rview a d;eld p1la for improving the eum        p  in       D   mer 31, 1994
icluding a progm  for training for aamination iaf.
Submit for IDA rview a Tenm of Refemoe   for a National A  st              Decmbw 31. 1994
of Eduatinl Paforma   -e.
Submit for IDA *view a ta      taiing modul o  continuato                  Decembr 31, 1994
ii    e Sed    Dndoedt
Submit for IDA review a Book Sector ow eV for                              S     _emba 3.0, 1993
dowWoping a mihd in school iaional     zMWals.









30                                32                                 34/                               36
SUDAN
06/=\r%X/)\TSe    /'~--~-<.UGANDA
)Kaboko 5bmbe  +   th9+              ,          <    t-- 9KiTOUM  3
gj ' Omu3a ,          Ab$,)X~ <" ''SoooRIVERS
>  1  1- .....  :  \  FNQrRTHERN  .           .KOTID  FALLS
DEMOCRATIC     ToAbu 7                                                    '                           5; < _ @ \ ,,,PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
REPUBLIC                                                                                           PRMAY RAELROD
OF CONGO           IROT;                                                                        =    RIMARYGRAVELROADS
5s  G '  S   sU  v  n  -'Ac,R_ g-\Oq   ,.'  UNSURFACED ROADS
1L_'~";               APAC6W                       /~  9   1 ~-~~ <,     -    \ 'onimoniR\ .   RAILROADS
2i             / p {1   --   -. o  SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
DISTRICT CAPITALS
-, jfUS   4   t    >    >   '.          | - UMI      -,     /        @   NATIONAL CAPITAL
>  OR A, -.           DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
-,           K,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
~ 1  ~~/~  \ t  \   !  |  i ~7  Ftl l l->--o/ TfoEdobooo -~b  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*KIBALE  ;                   (  ,                                            V      -
- ~j< r                  rl..,                                            IAEjS2 ;( /  <-rg-Re 7d'  ;-- 
sEll     I?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10            I~
j / ( s.l- E - E   },iT  *  _,6,El        .r C                               KJLOMETERSO  50     00 50
)     PORT    i      ;                                                                  - - w   ^     <a    w     ,2-,.i-i  E AL.  W  ;i.,,   J /  MLESO  50  100
!  Mbu5  1 b !,*        , ,        ,\;;4  -;  ;  mj -  rvl   I     9.
Tosm y  * F -EIE-8-+    CENtRAL            I    9                       KENYA
>  < -       ~r                                                                           p1r }/W~fS
,{  W   e   X  2    ~\  Fi        *'    *-L - |  f lO;;_-lrLa         /                    S-   -- ) 
Eta1  Q  lBUSF{ENYI )
K            idFI- ,4'rU I                                                                       UGANDA
hRUKUNGIA |                                                                                       t
NUN  C                                              I~~~~~~~LKECTOI
L. V      - rTolb nN' \>,,   , ,                   TANZANIA                                              -
RWANDA     \     - :1                                      -  ----4  -    -           N              36          JUNE 1998



