OFICAL
DOUENTS"
CREDIT NUMBER 2493 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education and Teacher Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           "      b     , 1993
el ~I


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2493 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Z7et/. t.LI           , 1993, between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 16, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of
objectives, policies and actions designed to strengthen the
Borrower's education sector (hereinafter called the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and as part of the Program, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C)   the Borrower has obtained from the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) Grant No. 617-0131 (the USAID
Project Grant) in an amount equivalent to $25,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the USAID Project Grant Agreement) dated August 31, 1992
between the Borrower and USAID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOvJ THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Developmant   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "DEO" means District Education Officer;
(b)   "EASL" means East African School of Librarianship;
(c)   "EPU" means the Education Planning Unit in MOES;
(d)   "TDMS" means the Teacher Development and Management
Systems;
(e)   "MOES" means the Ministry of Education and Sports;
(f)   "NAEP" means the National Assessment of Educational
Performance;
(g)   "NCDC" means the National Curriculum Development Center;
(h)   "NURP" means the Northern Reconstruction Project, as set
out in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number
2362 UG) between the Borrower and the Association dated June 12,
1992;
(i)   "PAPSCA" means the Alleviation of Poverty and Social
Costs of Adjustment Project, as set out in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 2088 UG) between the
Borrower and the Association dated February 8, 1990;
(j)   "PIU1" means the Project Implementation Unit in MOES;
(k)   "PTC" means a Primary Teachers College that has been
selected to be part of TDMS network of the Project;
(1)   "TTC" means a Teacher Training College;
(m)   "TU" means the Textbook Unit in MOES;
(n)   "UNEB" means the Uganda National Examinations Board;
(0)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an e:.change of letters dated October 22, 1991 and
FebruL :y 25, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(q)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent  to   thirty-eight  million  Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 38,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank in Uganda on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿-4-
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shail accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the  Executive  Directors  of   the  Association  and  after   due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,


﻿-5-
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MOES with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate educational, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(a)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Pgreement.
Section 3.02. (a) With reference to Section 3.01 (a), the
Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budgets amounts sufficient to
cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project;
(ii) open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a


﻿-6-
Project Account in a commercial bank in the name of PIU to be used
exclusively for expenditures under the Project; (iii) deposit into
the Project Account an initial amount of the Uganda Shillings
equivalent to $200,000 (the Initial Deposit); and (iv) thereafter at
the beginning of each quarter deposit into the Project Account
(commencing from the quarter immediately following the quarter in
which this Agreement becomes effective), the amount estimated to be
required during such quarter to cover the expenditures for the
Project which are not covered by withdrawals from the Credit Account
or the USAID Project Grant, and which may not have been covered by
the Initial Deposit.
(b)   The   Borrower's   counterpart  contributions   under
paragraph (a) of this Section will be assessed on the basis of the
annual work plan to be submitted to the Association in accordance
with paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that no later than
three months after the Effective Date and thereafter for the
duration of the Project, EPU and PIU shall be fully staffed and
operational with staff whose experience and qualifications are
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year,
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿-7-
principles consistently a-plied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon  as
available, but in any case not later than
6 months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish    to   the  Association    such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to  be   maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that   such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal


﻿-8-
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant portion thereof, will be carried
out.
(b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the USAID Project Grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Project Account has been opened and the Uganda
Shillings equivalent to $200,000 has been deposited therein; and


﻿-9-
(b)   the Borrower has submitted sample standard tender
documents for Parts A (2) (a) and (b) and B (3) (b) (vii) of the
Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINSEC                    61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By 1,fl      '4      K.k~JA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/f/ 6dwcd            K/<     7a4vco-r
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              14,850,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment and            2,950,000         100% of foreign
Furniture                                  expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3) Vehicles                 1,160,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Books and Printed        1,530,000         100% of foreign
Items                                     expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(5) Consultants'             4,770,000         100%
Services
(6) Training and             1,100,000         100%
Studies


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Incremental               3,040,000        100%
Recurrent
Expenditures
(8) Refunding of              1,020,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated               7,580,000
TOTAL                38,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental recurrent expenditures" means
expenditures incurred for incremental staff salaries and allowances,
office supplies and operation of vehicles financed under the
Project, including fuel and maintenance.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
reforming and improving the pattern of resource mobilization and
resource allocation in the education sector, and in financing
specific investment expenditures in the related areas of primary
education and primary teacher training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improving Primary School Teaching and Management
1.    Establishment of TDMS, the integrated teacher development and
management support system that functionally links coordinating
primary schools and outreach schools to PTCs.
2.    Construction and rehabilitation of teacher training and
primary school facilities through:
(a)   Construction and rehabilitation of about 16 PTCs and
construction of one Tutor Training Wing attached to one of the PTCs;
(b)   Construction   and   rehabilitation  of   about   200
Coordinating Primary Schools involved in TDMS including construction
of staff houses; and
(c)   Construction  and   rehabilitation  of   about  2,640
classrooms in outreach schools.
3.    Provision of learning resources through:
(a)   Acquisition and distribution of student textbooks and
teachers' guides; and
(b)   Acquisition and distribution of supplementary reading
materials.


﻿- 14 -
4.    Building capacity for the development of learning resources:
Revitalization of local printing and publishing through:
(a)    technical assistance and study tours for local
publishers and printers and the staff of the TU
and NCDC;
(b)    training courses conducted by the TU, NCDC and
other relevant training institutions on behalf
of professional associations for publishers and
printers;
(c)    publishing and printing courses conducted by the
EASL for publishers and printers;
(d)    training   courses   in   editorial,   design,
illustration and management offered through the
TU and NCDC by the EASL and the School of Media
Development and Graphic Arts and other relevant
training insitutions; and
(e)    courses in printing management, operating and
maintenance and bookvending through the TU, NCDC
and   EASL   and   other   relevant   training
institutions.
Part B:     Enhancing Strategic MOES Functions
1.    (a)   Strengthening of the EPU, including capacity building to
conduct the annual census of schools, school mapping and improvement
of the annual budgeting process.
(b)   Establishment and equipping of a project preparation
department and a research, monitoring and evaluation department in
EPU and training of their staff with a view to preparing project
documents and conducting preinvestment studies.
(c)   Carrying out of a National Assessment of Education
Performance Study.
(d)   Carrying out of a comprehensive policy      study  on
secondary schools.


﻿- 15 -
(e)   Carrying out of a book sector policy review and
strategy.
2.    (a)   Strengthening MOES, TDMS and school management through:
(i)    development of management training materials;
(ii)    development of a training diffusion network;
(iii)    training of trainers in management techniques;
(iv)    establishment of an in-service training capacity
in the TDMS unit of the PIU and at the PTCs; and
(v)    carrying  out  ongoing  in-service  management
training for head teachers, DEOs, inspectors and
local school management committees.
(b)   Design and implementation of new personnel records and
accounting as well as management information systems throughout the
primary education system from the school and the DEO levels up to
the MOES.
3.    (a)   Curriculum reform through:
(i)    development of syllabi for four core subject
areas;
(ii)    training of textbook writers;
(iii)    writing of textbooks and related teacher guides;
(iv)    training  of  children's  literature  writers,
illustrators and designers; and
(v)    writing of supplementary reading materials.
(b)   Examination reform through:
(i)    establishment of national curriculum committees
for each examined subject to monitor validity;
(ii)    phased introduction of a system of continuous
assessment;


﻿-16 -
(iii) increasing the number of examination questions
testing higher-order cognitive skills;
(iv)    provision of feedback information to teachers on
pupil performance in the national examinations;
(v)    creation  of  systems  of  formal   information
exchange between the inspectorate, PTCs, NCDC
and UNEBy
(vi)    introduction of a research program to monitor
qualitative aspects of examinations; and
(vii)    construction of a new UNEB office including a
secure printing facility, as well as improvement
of UNEB's administration and acquisition of
office equipment.
4.    Reorganization and expansion of PIU and rehabilitation of its
offices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in bid evaluation.
2.    Prequalification  as provided   in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines shall take place of bidders for Parts A (2) (a) and B (3)
(vii) of the Project and of bidders for printing contracts for
supplementary materials under Part A (3) (b) of the Project.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works under Parts A (2) (a) and B (3)
(vii) of the Project in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of printing contracts for school textbooks
under Part A (3) of the Project in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be


﻿- 18 -
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Works under Part A (2) (b) of the Project, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,800,000, and (b) furniture under
Part A (2) and Part B (3) (vii) of the Project, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association which
shall include: (a) public opening of bids, (b) specified evaluation
criteria, (c) confirmation of foreign bidders' eligibility to
participate in the bidding process, and (d) awards to be made to the
lowest responsive competitive bidder.
2.    Works under Part A (2) (c) of the Project may be procured on
the basis of force account with the use of local labor.
3.    Equipment that has to be compatible with existing units, as
well as miscellaneous supplies estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000, may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A (2) hereof, the procedures sot forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each work contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more and each contract for goods and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified


﻿- 19 -
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall  employ   experts  and   consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of


﻿- 20 -
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.    MOES shall continue to maintain PIU within its organization.
PIU, in collaboration with TDMS coordinating committees in each
District, shall be rtsponsible for the management, implementation
and coordination of the Project and shall be reorganized and
expanded by assigning a separate project manager to each donor
assisted project, by creating TDMS and a Textbook Unit within PIU,
by reinforcing the Construction Department and establishing a TDMS
coordinating committee in each District (DEO). In addition,
construction, procurement, finance and administration functions
shall be expanded and streamlined, whilst within operational
departments, staff and resources will be shared across projects in
order to realize economies of scale.
2.    The  responsibilities of PIU    and the TDMS coordinating
committee shall include but not be limited to:
(a)   detailed planning of each phase of the Project and
modification of the overall targets when required;
(b)   ensuring the coordinated and logical development of the
various elements of the Project;
(c)   the selection of the primary schools to be constructed
and rehabilitated and the PTCs to be constructed and
rehabilitated on the basis of guidelines, criteria and
procedures consistent with the Program;
(d)   the  management  of  all  Project   funds  and  their
disbursement;
(e)   the annual evaluation and report on the progress of the
Project; and
(f)   updating the list of local experts and reporting on
their progress as part of the annual report of
activities.


﻿- 22 -
Project Monitoring and Review
3.    Project monitoring will be the responsibility of PIU and EPU
and will assess the financial and physical progress of the various
components as well as the progress in implementing the policy
measures supported by the Project on the basis of indicators
approved by the Association. PIU shall develop formats for
monitoring   implementation  in   close  consultation   with   the
implementing agencies and the Association. These formats shall be
used by all implementing agencies and shall be consolidated by the
PIU in semiannual progress reports. The semiannual reports in turn
shall be used by EPU and PIU in their preparation of comprehensive
annual progress reports and annual work plans for all Project
components for the following year.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure the submission to the Association by
MOBS of:
(a)   a semiannual progress report within eight weeks of the
end of the first half of each fiscal year;
(b)   an annual progress report by September 30 of each year
for the previous fiscal year; and
(c)   an annual work plan, satisfactory to the Association,
for the following fiscal year by: (i) September 30,
1993, in the first year of Project implementation, and
(ii) March 31 of each year in succeeding years of
Project implementation. This work plan is subject to the
Association's approval.
5.    The Borrower and the Association shall convene joint semi-
annual implementation review meetings, to which external agencies
supporting the Project shall also be invited to attend. These
reviews shall address planning and budgeting, and performance
evaluation and policy implementation issues:
(a)   major policies in the sector and recurrent financing
levels;
(b)   assess performance on the implementation of the various
Project components;
(c)   where necessary, modify Project implementation targets
and strategies; and


﻿- 23 -
(d)   prepare future work programs and budgets.
6.    (a)   The Borrower shall carry out a midterm review in 1996
jointly with the Association to which external agencies supporting
the Project shall also be invited, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association to address issues
including: (i) major sectoral policies and recurrent financing
levels; (ii) implementation performance, targets and strategies; and
(iii) future work programs and budgets and shall soon thereafter
implement the recommendations of such a review.
(b)   At least three months prior to the data scheduled for
the midterm review, the Borrower shall furnish the Association with
such reports as it may request.
Part A of the Proiec.
7.    TDMS, which is an integrated support system that functionally
links primary schools to PTCs to provide field-based upgrading and
continuous in-service training for sch-ool managers and instructional
staff (headmasters, district education officers and inspectorate
staff and teachers) in certain districts, shall be organizationally
divided into three levels: the national, the district and the local
level. At the national level, it shall consist of a TDMS Advisory
Committee, TDMS management committee and the TDMS Department in the
PIU. At the district level, it shall consist of the TDMS
coordinating committee for planning and implementation purposes and
participating TDMS, PTCs whose function is to provide a complete
range of inputs and support to primary education in the district
and, for that purpose, these PTCs are linked at the local level to
Coordinating Primary Schools, each of which, is in itself connected
to a network of surrounding Outreach Schools. Tutors for the PTCs
will be trained at the Tutor Training Wing to be attached to one of
the PTCs.
PTCs shall have four tasks: (a) preservice training of new
teachers; (b) in-service upgrading of practicing teachers; (c)
ongoing in-service training to bring new methods, texts and learning
materials to teachers in the schools; and (d) management training
and support for headteachers, DEOs, PTA and management committee
representatives. The Coordinating Schools will serve as a location
for the gathering of teachers from the Outreach Schools, for
structured in-service courses, meetings, production of instructional
materials, informal sharing and mutual assistance.


﻿- 24 -
The TDMS districts, as well as the core PTCs, will be selected
in accordance with guidelines, criteria and procedures consistent
with the Program, and a full TDMS network will be implemented in the
districts selected. Additional support for TDMS will be given as
follows: (a) support for the TDMS department in the PIU and TDMS
coordinating committees; (b) development and distribution of a new
Grade III curriculum, syllabus and supporting materials; and (c)
assistance to UNEB to take full responsibility for Gxade III
examination and certification.
8.    Areas  that   receive  assistance  for   primary  classroom
reconstruction under PAPSCA or NURP shall be excluded from Part A
(2) (c) of the Project.
9.    The Borrower shall, no later than August 31, 1994, submit to
the Association a detailed training program, satisfactory to the
Association, for local capacity building of the publishing and
printing industry.
Part B of the Project
10.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994. 5ubmit for review
and comments by the Association:
(a)   a revised primary   curriculum  w-ich maintaias the
proportional instructional time for the core subjects;
(b)   a detailed plan for improving the examination process;
(c)   the terms of reference of NAEP; and
(d)   a teacher training module on continuous assessment. UNEB
shall carry out the NAEP every three years in collaboration with
EPU. The NAEP is to ascertain national levels of achievement in
targeted subject areas, as well as additional information of
importance to planning.
11.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1993, submit
to the Association revised terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association, for the Book Sector Policy Review.
12.   The purpose of the Book Sector Policy Review and strategy is
to provide baseline data for developing policy on the generation,
publication, production and distribution of textbooks. It would also
assess policy and programmatic issues such as publishing rights,


﻿- 25 -
physical specification for textbooks, tendering procedures and
bookvending. It shall also investigate the factors affecting book
life in Ugandan schools.
13.   The school mapping activity will consist of a detailed mapping
of all existing primary schools in the country beginning with the
Project TDMS districts, including information on location, physical
facilities, books and equipment, land, water, utilities, proximity
to other institutions, and accessibility. Data will be collected by
utilizing teams from the TDMS network as well as EPU staff.
14.   The analysis of costs and finance entails a detailed analysis
of all expenditures in a nationally representative sample of primary
schools. Data is to be collected on resources provided for education
from all sources and an assessment to be made as to how educational
funds are actually spent. In addition, this activity will assess the
impact of school charges on student participation and differences by
family income and pupil gender.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 7 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to US$3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account. the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 27 -
(ii)   Prior to, or, at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the       Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 28 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


