FEPY1
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3386-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$165.5 MILLION
To INDIA
FOR THE
K-RISHNA-GODAVARI PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJE
September 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 9, 1982)
US$1                  Rs 9.648358
Rs 1             =    US$0.103644
Rs 1 million    =    US$103,644
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 9.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
D-P    -    Dynamically-Positioned
GOI    -    Government of India
OIDB   -    Oil Industry Development Board
OIL    -    Oil India Ltd.
ONGC   -    Oil and Natural Gas Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KRISHNA-GODAVARI PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:    Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC).
Amount:          US$165.5 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:           Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 11.6% per annum.
Relending       Maturity not to exceed 20 years, including 5 years of
Terms:          grace, at an interest rate of 12% per annum.  GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project          The project would assist ONGC to establish the commercial
Description:    potential of hydrocarbon reserves within part of the
Krishna-Godavari basin and further enhance ONGC's overall
technical capability in petroleum exploration in complex
geological and environmental conditions. The project
would aim at: (i) improving the definition of onshore and
offshore petroleum prospects through additional seismic
surveys; (ii) accelerating ONGC's onshore and offshore
exploratory drilling programs in the project area; and
(iii) providing technical assistance in the drilling,
testing and completion of deep high-pressure gas wells and
drilling in the outer shelf and, as required, for improv-
ing the quality control of geophysical data acquisition
and processing. While the exploration of the area
presents significant technical challenges, prospects for
establishing substantial commercial petroleum resources
are reasonably high. The risks will be mitigated through
careful preparation and limitation of deep water drilling,
and through the employment of consultants to advise on
drilling and testing deep, high-pressure formations and to
assist in supervising outer shelf drilling operations, as
well as provide periodic reassessments of exploration
results.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
t,Qeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



-il-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Onshore                                             Local    Foreign    Total
Seismic Surveys and Data Processing            4.1       3.1         7.2
Well Drilling                                 40.3      58.6        98.9
Technical Assistance                            1.6      2.7         4.3
Sub-total                                   46.0      64.4       110.4
Offshore
Seismic Surveys and Data Processing            3.7      15.1        18.8
Well Drilling                                 63.2    207.3        270.5
Technical Assistance                           4.0       6.6        10.6
Sub-total                                   70.9    229.0        299.9
Taxes and Duties                                    70.2       -          70.2
Base Cost Estimate                                 187.1    293.4       480.5
Physical Contingencies                              25.8      66.7        92.5
Price Contingencies                                 22.0      36.4        58.4
Sub-total                                   47.8    103.1        150.9
Total Project Cost                                 234.9    396.5        631.4
Front End Fee on IBRD Loan                           -         2.4         2.4
Total Financing Required                           234.9    398.9       633.8
Z====    1====S      m^



-iii-
Financing Plan for ONGC's Investment           Rs Million         US$ Million
Program 1982/83-1985/86
ONGC Internal Sources                     82,720.0            9,191.0
Long Term Borrowings: 1/                  32,639.0            3,627.0
of which
IBRD 2/                               (4,086.0)           (454.0)
Commercial and GOI 3/                (28,553.0)         (3,173.0)
GOI Equity Contributions
and OIDB Grants                              147.0               16.0
Total Financing                        115,507.0          12,834.0
Estimated                          (US$ millions)
Disbursements:            FY83          FY84         FY85         FY86
Annual              40.0 4/        68.0         53.0           4.5
Cumulative          40.0           108.0        161.0        165.5
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 3887a-IN, dated September 10, 1982.
1/ Includes loans approved and those under consideration
2/  Estimated disbursements under loans committed and under consideration.
3/  GOI loans would be needed only to the extent commercial loans will be
insufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements.
4/  Including front-end fee of US$2.4 million.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE
KRISHNA-GODAVARI PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation for a
proposed loan to India in an amount equivalent to US$165.5 million to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of a petroleum exploration project in
the Krishna-Godavari-basin in eastern India. Amortization would be over
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% per
annum. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Oil and Natural
Gas Commission (ONGC) at 12% per annum, for a term not exceeding 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government (GOI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
700 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base
is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
ex:Lstence. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over
the past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added
(5.0% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the
share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices)
from 60% to about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around
24%,. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation,
wilth significantly higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.
In the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able
to increase agricultural output faster than total population while
eliminating persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Subernarekha Irrigation Project
(No. P-3375-IN), dated July 28, 1982.



-2-
investment have increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings
more than doubled from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross
domestic investment rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a
major portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached
during the early 1960s; for a few years in the late 1970s, surpluses
arose, and at the present time, foreign savings are about 10% of
investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3%
of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution.  The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the
early to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained
roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the
Government introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate
exports. As a result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about
7.6% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates
that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets,
particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth,
liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incentives
played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of
foodgrain output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of
foodgrain production in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP,
agricultural and industrial value-added, substantially exceeded the
historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this
momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with
a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led
to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening
up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged
after several years of virtual price stability.  The impact of these
setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, particularly in the
balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some years to
come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed and
the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP
growing by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to
rise by more than 15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with
judicious use of Government buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also
helped moderate price rises. Inflation remained a serious problem with
the annual average wholesale price index rising 18%, although the second
half of the year provided clear evidence of a deceleration in inflation.
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81
and GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over



its 1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed
well and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power,
cOaLl and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in
1981/82, recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively.
As constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities
continued to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The
downward trend in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9%
on an average annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March
1982 basis was less than 2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier
supply conditions, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy,
contributed to the sharp decline in the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also
provided continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments
and appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached
between 132 and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the
previous record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while
fertilizer consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%,
despite substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable
future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand. However, the balance remains delicate with some imports likely to
be required from time to time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80
drought were still being felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat
were imported to rebuild depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively
low import requirement, the ability of the Government to delay imports for
as long as two years after the production shortfall, and the decline in
foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the flexibility and resilience
provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high
inflation in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of
declining capacity utilization in important, interrelated sectors such
as power, coal, and rail transport. A major cause of the improved
economic climate over the last two years has been a much improved level of
output in these sectors, due mainly to greater efficiency and utilization
of installed capacity. Expansion of coal output by about 10 million tons
for the second successive year and of rail freight traffic to a record
level were particularly noteworthy features of the 1981/82 economic
performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy production which
contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have also been
reduced.  However, even though there remains large scope for improving
efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will become
increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
1].     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates
exceeded investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually
increased, recent experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy
continue to outstrip the availability of resources, both internal and
external. Investment exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25%
of GDP, are already high and further increases, particularly from the
household sector, will be increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over



-4-
the last two years, the Government has taken a number of measures to
generate higher savings in the public sector. Principal among these were
price and tax increases, and subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities
produced mainly in the public sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's
POL imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled
with domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these
factors caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of
GDP in 1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account
deficit rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable
movements in export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse
outcome. However, the much improved performance of basic
import-substituting industries and a resumption of healthy export volume
growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance this gap in the face of
inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government drew down a record
US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew almost
US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund Facility,
and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of finance. In
1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed commitments for
commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were contracted for
major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring
India's external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level
of growth. In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of
exports, to increase production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports
of these items, to moderate the rise in oil imports through greater
domestic production and slower demand growth, and to further reduce the
constraints in transportation and other infrastructural facilities which
are retarding growth in a wide range of activities, including exports. It
is encouraging that, in response to the present balance of payments
difficulties, the Government has not reacted by placing more stringent
controls on imports, but rather has maintained and extended the more
liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export and industrial policy measures have
improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified
structure, capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications,
power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable need for additional capacity as well as
improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure



-5-
for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but
also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now
aabout halfway completed.  The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of
continued bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is
growing. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an
acceleration of domestic savings rates. The efforts of the Central
Government to raise resources have so far been impressive and are likely
to be broadly sufficient to meet the financing requirements of the Central
Government's share in plan investment, if inflation can be kept in check.
However, a significant shortfall in savings is likely to occur in some
states unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also
for continuous efforts to maintain .and raise further the already high
level of private savings. Recent increases in interest rates and tax
concessions on time deposits should stimulate such savings. The further
dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects for which look
bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur
well for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not
matched the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon
relates to India's stage of development, in which a large and growing
proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure.
These services, such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently
high capital output ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the
sectoral capital output ratios has been due to a deterioration in
efficiency and is avoidable through better management. Bottlenecks in
these basic sectors clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where
large investments have been made. As demonstrated in the last two years,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better
planning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity
utilization, throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand
domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like
coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative
a'dvantage. For sectors such as power and transportation, expansion of
planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the
economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term prospects. At
present rates of development, however, an adequate balance between supply
and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain. Performance in
the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit will continue
.into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementation and
efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
i!nvestment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will
need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious
bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.



--6-
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the
prospects for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports
are quite bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by
successive price increases for petroleum products. On the production
side, scheduled expansion is expected to raise domestic production of
crude from the current 46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities
for accelerated offtake from known fields offer much encouragement for
India's longer term energy prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has
been marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves
reached a record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import
coverage by the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of
the IMF Extended Fund Facility.  Entering this period with a favorable
debt service profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial
capital markets at favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high
underlying rates) and in the last two years commercial borrowing has been
stepped up. These sources will be important in the future since India's
current account deficits, though not large relative to the size of the
economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will necessitate
external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years wiLl hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high
growth. In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy
for achieving these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings
for further investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased
emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the
balance of payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an
important element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly
will be adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is
currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the
very low levels of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness
in world markets. Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting
the structure of the Indian economy to a more open and efficient
environment as intended by the Government requires foreign resources in
addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India. Indeed,
along with increasing exports, higher levels of investment to support an
adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's recently
improved creditworthiness. India is still a very poor country with a
large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure. The fact that India has been able
to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth above the long term
trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance to the hope
that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints
on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization



-7-
of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer
to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined
with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the
rLeed for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if
possible.  The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or
about 12 million higher than official projections. The fact that there
was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to
about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may
sluggest this rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation
of a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not
materialized. Until full details of the Census are released, firm
J;udgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan which aims at a
rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of
the urban population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the
living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall
growth of the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural
production and employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in
employment opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to
stem in large part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged
and reinforced by appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of
basic services and infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain
prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from India's sustained effort to
raise agricultural production, reflects such developments. There is also
a role for direct Government action in faster implementation of land
reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty through land
redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the supply of
credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally in
broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements
of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian
planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the
expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as
the community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy
campaign provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively
low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million
has been repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1982. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an
increase of about 28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling
US$176.5 million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6
million sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9
million, US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A
summary statement of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included
in Annex II (page 5).
24.        The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects.  Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects.  The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.        This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and
consonant with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The
continued active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas



- 9-.
resources is a central element of this program, which should be
supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in
the expansion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial
projects to increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which
have been in short supply and which India has a comparative advantage in
producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a
key constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that
further support of the railways and for ports development will be
particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the
mid-1970s. However, there is now a need for increased foreign assistance
to adjust to an even greater deterioration in balance of payments
anticipated during the 1980s by augmenting domestic resources and
stimulating investment. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support. Therefore, India should be
eligible and regarded as creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The
ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in
1981/82 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totalled
US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
c:ontributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross
disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and
52%, respectively, in 1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the
Bank Group's share was US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and
]BRD's US$1.0 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt
service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
General
29.       Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear power)
accounts for about 46% of total energy consumption in India, with the balance
(53%) being derived from non-commercial sources such as firewood and agricul-
tural and animal wastes. Over the past ten years, the growth of energy
consumption in India averaged 4% per annum, which was marginally below GDP
growth for the period. Over the same period, commercial energy consumption
increased by 5.3% per annum, but this was not sufficiently rapid to raise per
capita consumption of commercial primary energy above 166 kg of oil equiv-
alent, which is half the average for low income developing countries. The
share of oil products in commercial primary energy consumption at 23% is low
for developing countries, but it is growing rapidly. Firewood is the most
widely consumed fuel in India, accounting for about 65% of total
non-commercial energy consumption. Other sources of fuel, such as vegetable
and animal wastes, account for the remaining 35% of non-commercial energy
consumption.
30.       Coal remains the most important domestic source of commercial
energy in India. Coal production, which stagnated between 1976177 and
1979/80 because of power shortages, delays in commissioning new mines, labor
difficulties and transportation bottlenecks has risen substantially from
about 104 million tons in 1979/80 to 124.7 million tons in 1981/82.
Installed electric generating capacity in 1981/82 is estimated at 35,000 MW,
of which hydroelectric plants account for about 36%. Potential demand for
power has consistently exceeded supply in recent years. The estimated
deficit (calculated as actual supply compared to potential unrestricted
demand) widened to about 13% in 1980/81.
31.       Inadequate supplies of energy have been a major constraint hinder-
ing India's economic growth. Although considerable indigenous resources of
energy exist, their development has not kept pace with demand. In November
1979, a high-level Working Group on Energy Policy recommended measures to
reduce energy demand. Prominent among the recommendations were improvement
in the efficiency of energy use, reduction of transportation demand, reduc-
tion of the energy intensity of industrial investment, and inter-fuel sub-
stitution from commercial to non-commercial and renewable energy resources.
These recommendations address the need to contain commercial energy consump-
tion without impeding economic growth.
Petroleum
32.       Estimates of India's total recoverable hydrocarbon reserves are 4.5
billion tons of oil equivalent, of which about two-thirds are offshore.
Proven recoverable reserves are about 470 million tons of oil and 410 billion
cubic meters of natural gas (about 330 million tons of oil equivalent).
Natural gas is becoming increasingly important to the Indian economy with the
development of the Bombay High and planned development of the large offshore
South Bassein fields. Consumption in 1981/82 is estimated at 1.52 million
tons of oil equivalent, but this is forecast to rise to about 7 million tons
by 1989. Gas is intended to be used largely as feedstock for fertilizers and
petrochemicals, with the heavier fractions being sold as bottled gas to



-1 1-
substitute for kerosene and other fuels.  Crude oil production from domestic
reserves has increased steadily over the past 20 years from as little as
0.45 million tons in 1960/61 to almost 7 million tons in 1970/71 and an
estimated 16.2 million tons in 1981/82.
33.       Consumption of crude oil grew at about 6.5% per annum over the past
5 years, and reached an estimated 36.8 million tons in 1981/82. Imported
crude oil accounted for 20.6 million or about 56% of consumption. The import
bill for crude oil and petroleum products was over US$6 billion that year,
representing 38% of total merchandise imports and 70% of India's merchandise
export earnings. By the end of the Plan period (1984/85), consumption is
expected to reach about 46 million tons. This would exceed expected domestic
production by about 16 million tons on current estimates.
34.       While there are good prospects for increasing production from
existing fields, particularly Bombay High, India will need to import about
34% of its crude oil requirements in 1984/85 and this proportion could rise
unless there are major new discoveries. Thus a concerted effort to explore
and develop India's petroleum resources, in order to reduce imports, is of
vital importance and is a central objective of Government policy. Recent
exploration results indicate the existence of promising sedimentary basins
where additional and more intensive exploration efforts appear justified.
To this end, the investment programs of the ONGC and Oil India Limited (OIL),
the Government-owned institutions engaged in exploration and development of
hydrocarbon resources, have been stepped up. The Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1980/81-1984/85) originally allocated about US$3.7 billion 1/ for petroleum
exploration and development, which itself represented an increase of almost
50% in real terms over such expenditures in the previous Plan. Revised
allocations for the Plan period are now about US$6 billion 1/, a further
increase of more than 60%. At the same time, in recognition of the need to
supplement these resources yet further, India is making concerted efforts to
attract risk capital by inviting foreign oil companies to assist in exploring
for oil, both onshore and offshore. About half of the country's sedimentary
basin areas have been offered to private oil companies to participate in
exploration under production-sharing contracts (see para 40 below).
Petroleum Pricing
35.       India is fully aware of the need to conserve energy and, to this
end, the Government has consistently set petroleum prices at levels designed
tc ensure efficient energy use. Retail prices of oil products have been
maintained, on average, at or above international levels. The most recent
increases were in July 1981 which established the following retail prices:
1/ In 1980/81 prices.



-12-
India - Retail Prices of Petroleum Products
(in US$ per US gallon)
Current
Prices as
% of
Current          CIF Import         Import
Prices           Prices             Prices
Gasoline                    2.55             1.07               238
High-Speed Diesel           1.27             1.10               115
Kerosene                    0.76             1.14                67
Fuel Oil                    1.20             0.75               160
Domestic crude oil prices are also regulated by the Government. Prices to
ONGC and OIL, which were raised in July 1981 from US$6.1 per barrel to
US$17.3 per barrel, ensure a satisfactory financial performance by the
producers and enable these to finance a major portion of their investment
programs from internally-generated funds. Although the current domestic
crude prices are below international levels, exploration and development
decisions are based on international prices, and hence the lower domestic
selling price does not act as a disincentive to exploration and development.
Under the new production sharing contracts, foreign oil companies will
receive the full international price for their share of production. At the
present time, both the level and the structure of petroleum prices in India
are considered satisfactory.
Sector Institutions
36.       The Ministry of Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizers is charged
with policy-making in the petroleum sector. Together with the Ministry of
Finance and the Planning Commission, it approves all investments and the
budgets of public companies operating in the sector. ONGC and OIL, both
public sector undertakings, are engaged in the exploration for and develop-
ment of hydrocarbon resources. The Indian Oil Corporation handles all of
India's crude oil imports. The Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) is a
financial institution which obtains funds through a cess levied on domestic
crude production and provides some financing for public sector enterprises
engaged in petroleum exploration, production and refining.
Petroleum Resources
37.       Petroleum reservoirs are found in sedimentary basins.  In India,
there are 37 sedimentary basins with a totdl area of approximately 1.72
million km , of which about 1.4 million km (81%) are onshore and the
remainder offshore (to a water depth of 200 meters). Commercial petroleum
production has been established in only two sedimentary basins. The first is
the Assam-Arakan basin in parts of Assam and extending to Nagaland,
Meghalaya, Tripura, Manipur and Mizoram in the north eastern part of the
country. The second is the Cambay basin comprising an area in Gujarat, which
also includes the Bombay High offshore petroleum fields. Many of India's
potential petroleum-bearing areas are still unexplored and production is
concentrated in only a few regions. Historically, the pace and scope of



-13-
exploration activity has been uneven and resources have been concentrated on
a few promising areas. Since the discovery of the giant Bombay High field
off the West Coast of India in the mid-1970s, India has not made a new major
commercial discovery. Ongoing exploration efforts of ONGC, however, have
been encouraging and have identified several petroleum-bearing areas which
need further exploratory drilling to determine their commercial potential.
Indications of petroleum have been found in six basins: Konkan,
Krishna-Godavari, Cauvery, Rajasthan, Andaman Islands and the Tripura fold
belt.  The Ratnagiri oil field in the Konkan basin is being developed and is
expected to start production in late 1982. The Krishna-Godavari and Cauvery
basins indicate the most promising undeveloped potential to date, with
Krishna-Godavari particularly standing out as the next likely major discovery
after Bombay High.
Petroleum Exploration Policies, Activities and Investment Strategy
38.       Until the 1950s, petroleum exploration was concentrated in north-
eastern India, specifically, in Assam, Tripura and Nagaland. OIL was estab-
lished in 1959 following an oil discovery in Assam by Burmah Oil Company
(UK). The Government of India initially took a one-third equity interest in
OIL, increasing it to 50% in 1961. In October 1981, GOI acquired all the
Indian assets of the Burmah Oil Company, comprising its interest in OIL and
in the Assam Oil Company, a small firm whose production units had been
absorbed by OIL. In 1959 ONGC discovered petroleum reserves in Gujarat, but
AsEam remained the major petroleum-producing area in the country (4.2 million
tons per year) until the early 1970s when production in Gujarat exceeded 4
million tons per year. Following the oil crisis of 1973, exploration
activities accelerated, particularly offshore, resulting in the discovery by
ONGC in 1974 of the Bombay High field and a number of significant but smaller
fields in its vicinity. By 1981/82, oil production from Bombay High had
reached 8 million tons per annum, accounting for 50% of India's oil produc-
tion.
39.       International oil companies have been involved in petroleum
exploration in India intermittently. Prior to 1950, the Assam Oil Company
and the Burmah Oil Company were the only '-rms active in petroleum explora-
tion. In 1954, an agreement was signed between GOI (with a 25% interest) and
Indo-Stanvac (Standard Oil and Socony Vacuum, now Exx an and Mobil (USA),
respectively), providing for exploration of 10,000 km in West Bengal. The
venture was abandoned in 1959, after 10 (dry) wells had been drilled. From
1974 to 1277, three joint-venture exploration agreements, each covering
25,000 km  of offshore area, were concluded with Asamera (Canada), Natomas
(USA), and Reading and Bates (USA), but the companies withdrew following
completion of the minimum work requirements because the results were dis-
cou-raging.
40.       In late 1980, against the background of a sharply deteriorating
ba:Lance of payments position brought about, in part, by sharp increases in
itsg oil import bill, the Government recognized the urgent need to accelerate
the pace of oil exploration. Given that there were technical and financial
limits on the extent to which ONGC and OIL were able to expand their explora-
tion activities over India's immense prospective acreage, the Government
decided to supplement the national oil companies' involvement in exploration
by actively promoting participation by foreign firms on a production sharing



-14-
basis.  Thirty two blocks, ranging in size from 10,000 to 30,000 km2 offshore
and onshore, were off red to international bidders. The total area offered,
almost 0.9 million km , represented about 50% of the country's sedimentary
basin area. Although 34 foreign oil companies were invited, only seven
submitted bids and offers were concentrated on just two offshore blocks in
the vicinity of oil producing areas. This response was cautious and con-
sidered disappointing by the Government. The guarded approach by the oil
industry was not entirely surprising in that the initial round of bidding
involved relatively unknown areas with what at that time appeared to be
uncertain or modest geological potential. One production sharing agreement
was signed on March 26, 1982 with a consortium led by Chevron (USA) for an
18,500 km block offshore Gujarat, north of the Bombay High field. The terms
of the production sharing agreement with Chevron are consistent with industry
practice and provide, inter alia, for Chevron to drill at least three wells,
spending a minimum of US$29 million over a three-year period, at its own
risk. Upon commercial discovery, ONGC may assume a 50% interest in future
development (without payment of exploration costs) and production will be
split according to a scale which escalates with field profitability. Until
India achieves self-sufficiency in oil, GOI has the option to purchase Chev-
ron's share of the oil produced at international prices. Seismic surveys
were completed in July 1982 and Chevron is expected to begin drilling after
the monsoon. Execution of a contract with a second (partially Govern-
ment-owned) company was reportedly prevented by a requirement in the com-
pany's Charter that it export a portion of any oil discovered. A second
invitation for international bids was issued in August to 37 foreign oil
companies. The areas offered consist of 50 onshore and offshore blocks,
including onshore and offshore areas in the Krishna-Godavari basin adjacent
to the project area. In view of the improved knowledge of geological poten-
tial of the blocks being offered and the inclusion of new areas, not pre-
viously offered, which have considerable petroleum potential, and the Govern-
ment's success in finalizing terms with one consortium, the response to the
second offering is expected to be more encouraging. The decision to invite
foreign oil companies is a welcome move in providing a balance of oppor-
tunities between them and Indian oil companies. Foreign companies can thus
explore and develop areas that are of interest to them, while allowing the
national oil companies to concentrate their efforts in those areas where
prior exploration activities have already identified promising hydrocarbon
potential.
41.       To develop and utilize efficiently its petroleum resources, the
Government's investment program contains the following elements: increased
production from existing fields, primarily by accelerating the development
programs of ONGC and OIL in areas where petroleum has already been dis-
covered; accelerated exploration programs for ONGC and OIL; attraction of
risk capital for exploration activities through production-sharing agreements
with foreign oil companies; construction of new refineries and modernization
of existing refineries, especially through the introduction of conversion
facilities to reduce middle distillate imports; and development of the gas
pipeline system and construction of additional plants using gas as feedstock
(e.g., fertilizer and petrochemical plants).



-15-
Bank Group Involvement in the Petroleum Sector
42.       The Bank has made two loans totalling US$550 million for the
development of the offshore Bombay High oil field. The first loan
(Ln. 1473-IN) was made in 1977 and financed Phase III of ONGC's Bombay High
development program. The project was essentially completed in March 1981,
about two years behind the appraisal schedule, due to a necessary change in
the project scope resulting from new information which resulted in higher
priority being given to the development of the South Bombay High area than to
the North Bassein area. Nevertheless, about 70% of the targeted daily rate
of production had been attained by the project completion date anticipated at
appraisal. The facilities are operating satisfactorily. A Project Perfor-
marnce Audit Report is under preparation. A second loan for US$400 million
(Lri. 1925-IN) was made in December 1980 to assist in the financing of Phase
IV and advanced action on Phase V of the program. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. A US$200 million loan for a Refineries
Rationalization Project was recently approved. Further operations in oil
development and a gas development project are under consideration.
43.       The proposed project aims to support India's strategy of accelerat-
ing exploration of the country's petroleum prospects by obtaining foreign oil
company investments and focussing and strengthening the activities of the
national companies. With respect to foreign participation, the Bank has,
since 1980, been advising GOI and ONGC, at their invitation, regarding (i)
the preparation of offerings to foreign oil companies, with emphasis on
average block size and the selection of blocks to be offered; (ii) the types
and content of contracts currently expected by the international oil
industry; and (iii) the monitoring of the foreign oil companies' exploration
and development activities after contracts have been signed. In this connec-
tion, Bank staff reviewed in late 1980 the draft contract terms and minimum
wc,rk commitments on each block offered for bidding by international oil
companies (para 40). As regards the national oil companies, the Bank has
concentrated on ONGC exploration activities to help improve the balance and
design of its program, selecting the Krishna-Godavari basin because of its
complex geological and environmental conditions, as well as its significant
potential. Already considerable modification has taken place in the composi-
tion and emphasis of the program as a result of discussions between the Bank
and ONGC. A sharper focus has been given to exploration activities which had
previously been spread somewhat thinly across sizeable prospective areas,
helping broaden the scope for the involvement of foreign oil companies. The
Bank has also helped identify additional needs for specialized consulting
and contractor inputs in key elements of ONGC's program, contributing to
terms of reference and selection of the required expertise and review of
results. The dialogue on policies and technical issues has been constructive
and will be further pursued during project implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was appraised in November/December 1981.  The Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No. 3887a-IN, dated September 10, 1982) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project
Data sheet appears as Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.



-16-
in June 1982. The Borrower was represented by Mr. S.C. Jain of the Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian
delegation.
Project Description
45.       The Krishna-Godavari basin in eastern India has the prospect of
becoming a major new oil province, where successful exploration is likely to
result in significant additions to India's petroleum reserves. Exploration
activities in the onshore part of the basin by ONGC began as far back as
1959. In the late 1970s, drilling activities revealed the existence of
hydrocarbons in considerable quantities, although technical difficulties
limited drilling activities. ONGC has invested over US$70 million thus far
in exploration activities in the Krishna-Godavari basin. In the offshore
area, one of the numerous identified prospects was drilled and produced
significant quantities of oil and gas. The wells drilled onshore have indi-
cated substantial gas flows. The principal objectives of the project are to
focus and accelerate ONGC's activities in those specific areas of the
Krishna-Godavari basin where past exploration has identified highly promising
potential for commercially exploitable oil and gas reserves; to assist ONGC
in verifying this potential through further seismic surveys and exploratory
drilling; and to enhance ONGC's exploration capabilities under the very
difficult geological and environmental conditions in the Krishna-Godavari
project area. The project will constitute about a quarter of ONGC's explora-
tion activities during the project period. During appraisal, the project
area was carefully delineated, and limited to less than half of the
Krishna-Godavari offshore basin, comprising the areas where ONGC has already
made substantial exploration investments which have resulted in discoveries,
and which ONGC can explore further and develop efficiently in the near future
with available resources and technology.
46.       The project consists of the 1982/83-1985/86 time slice of ONGC's
exploration program in the project area. Its components are:
A. Onshore
(i)  about 1,700 line-km of seismic surveys, of which about
1,000 line-km would be high-resolution seismic lines
centered on the deep, high-pressure zone;
(ii) drilling of 12 exploratory wells, of which 5 will be in
deep high-pressure gas prospects; and
B. Offshore
(i) about 3,500 line-km of special shallow water seismic
surveys and up to 4,000 line-km of infill seismic surveys
in the remaining offshore area of the project;



-17-
(ii) drilling of 16 exploratory wells, of which 5 would be on
the outer shelf;l/ and
C. Technical Assistance. External support to ONGC for the super-
vision of drilling, testing and completing of wells in the
onshore high pressure gas areas and in the outer shelf areas;
and, as required, for the improvement of quality control of
geophysical data acquisition, processing and integration.
47.       The project area has been delineated following an integrated
geo:Logical evaluation by Bank staff and ONGC of onshore, inner shelf and
outer shelf prospects, and the drilling program has been designed to care-
fulLy balance potential prospects on the one hand and investment costs and
technical risks on the other. However, it is recognized that as new informa-
tionl becomes available, both the scope and location of seismic surveys and
the well locations and drilling programs may need to be changed. Therefore,
as project implementation proceeds, ONGC will periodically review and revise
the exploration program in the project area and submit the revised program
to the Bank; the Bank will be given adequate opportunity to comment on the
revised program before it is implemented (Section 2.01(b)), draft Project
Agreement.
Project Execution
48.       ONGC is responsible for execution of the project.  The Commission,
which was established by an Act of Parliament in 1959, consists of a Chair-
man, six full-time Members (Finance, Materials, Personnel, Exploration,
Offshore and Onshore) and two part-time members representing GOI's Ministries
of Finance and Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizers. ONGC's main administra-
tive and financial functions (planning, procurement and stores, accounting,
personnel, computer activities, etc.) are centralized in the corporate head-
quarters at Dehra Dun in Uttar Pradesh, along with the main research and
development and training facilities. Operational staff are divided among
three regional offices (Central, Western and Eastern) and the Bombay Offshore
Project. Operational responsibility and the authority to commit funds within
their approved budgets have been delegated to Regional Managers. The Madras
Division of the Bombay Offshore Project will execute the project. It will be
supported, as necessary, by ONGC's central services. The staff of ONGC is
motivated, experienced and technically competent, as is demonstrated by their
success in developing the highly productive Bombay High field and by the
progress they have made thus far, without outside assistance, in exploring
the Krishna-Godavari and other fields. However, aware of the rapid tech-
nological progress in oil exploration and in the development of oil and gas
reservoirs, ONGC continues to use foreign consultants when in-house
capability is insufficient or to verify critical results obtained in-house.
ONGC has consistently followed a policy of ensuring that techniques developed
in India reflect the latest technology available worldwide, and are properly
applied.
1/ The inner and outer shelf areas refer to the offshore areas of less than
165 meters depth, and between 165 and 300 meters depth, respectively.



-18-
49.       Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (CFP, France) has been assisting
ONGC since 1977 in the evaluation of reservoirs in Bombay High. It has also
been retained to assist in supervising the drilling of outer shelf wells in
Krishna-Godavari. Suitable consultants will be retained for similar services
for the deep, high-pressure onshore gas wells. These services will be
obtained promptly as needed from consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02, draft
Project Agreement). Foreign contractors will execute the deep onshore and
the offshore drilling programs and the specialized seismic surveys.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total financing requirements of the project, including contin-
gencies, escalation, and the front-end fee, are estimated at US$633.8 mil-
lion, of which US$398.9 million represent the foreign exchange costs. Taxes
and duties are estimated at US$70.2 million. Physical contingencies, which
are a little less than 20% of base cost, have been applied at 10% for onshore
seismic surveys, 15% for offshore seismic surveys, and 25% for well drilling.
Price contingencies are about 12% of base cost, and are calculated on projec-
tions of price increases from 1982/83-1985/86 in a declining range of
8.5-7.0% for local goods and services and 8.0-6.0% for foreign goods and
services.
51.     The proposed Bank loan of US$165.5 million would provide about 29% of
the financing requirements of the project, net of taxes and duties, and about
41% of its foreign exchange costs. It would cover critical seismic surveys,
both onshore and offshore; rig-hire charges for 5 onshore wells and the D-P
vessel for 8 offshore wells; drilling materials and supplies for 5 onshore
and 13 offshore wells; and technical well services (such as core analysis,
mud logging and engineering) for 9 onshore and 13 offshore wells; as well as
the front-end fee, which has been capitalized. The project represents about
5% of ONGC's overall investment program of US$12.8 billion over the period
1982/83-1985/86. No difficulties are anticipated by ONGC in mustering the
resources required to carry out the project. Nevertheless, if required, GOI
would promptly provide the necessary funds (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agree-
ment). The Bank loan would be made to GOI for 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% per annum, and with a front-end fee of
1.5%.  The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to ONGC at 12% per annum for
20 years, including five years of grace. GOI would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan (Section 6.01, draft Loan Agreement). Inflation in India over the past
five years has averaged about 9.5% per annum. This rate reflects the unusual
conditions prevailing after the 1979 drought (see para 6); the rate of infla-
tion has fallen sharply during 1981/82 so that the annual inflation rate over
the next five years is not expected to exceed 8%. The onlending rate of 12%
is, therefore, considerably above the expected rate of inflation.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       ONGC has contracted for two drilling rigs required for the offshore
program. An anchored drillship for inner-shelf drilling was hired in June
1981 from Atwood Oceanics (USA) on the basis of a renewed hire arrangement
which dated back to 1977 and which at that time was made after international



-19-
tendering. For outer-shelf drilling, a dynamically positioned (D-P) vessel
was hired from Sedco (USA) in April 1981, after international advertisement
for a non-D-P drillship.l/ These arrangements were appropriate in the tight
markets for such equipment prevailing at the time. The contracts were
reasonably priced in the circumstances and contractor services are being
rendered satisfactorily. Renewals or substitutions of the D-P vessel con-
tract--to be partly financed by the Bank--will be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. For the deep onshore drilling rigs, the infill
offshore seismic survey, most drilling materials and supplies, and equipment
and materials for completion of successful onshore wells, international
comLpetitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines will
be followed. With respect to the specialized high-resolution onshore and
shallow water offshore seismic surveys, ONGC has followed international
tendering procedures consistent with the Bank guidelines. Certain special-
ized well services (e.g., cementing, logging and core and mud analysis) with
few, qualified suppliers, items costing less than US$200,000 and items in
limiited supply which are needed for timely project execution, will be
procured by soliciting bids from a list of qualified suppliers agreed with
the Bank. The aggregate amount of such procurement (excluding the cost of
specialized well services) will not exceed US$6 million. For the purposes of
bid evaluation, a preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower, will be applied to bids from qualified local manufacturers of goods
procured after ICB.
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of foreign or
100% of local expenditures ex-factory for drilling materials and equipment
ancd supplies; 100% of foreign expenditures for the specialized high resolu-
tion and in-fill seismic surveys, specialized well services and the onshore
rig-hire charges; 25% of foreign expenditures for offshore (D-P vessely only)
rig-hire charges; and the front-end fee. It is recommended that the Bank
finiance up to US$6 million for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1982 on
schedule-critical contracts for seismic surveys and the D-P vessel rig-hire
charges. The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed by September 30,
19135.
Ecology and Safety
54.       Appropriate industry practices will be followed to protect the
safety of people and the environment. Seismic operations of the kind to be
conducted are not a cause for concern.  The drilling contractors are
experienced, and ONGC follows standards developed in North Sea operations
with respect to inspections, safety drill and waste handling. Drilling
opierations can cause blow-outs and/or oil spills. However, offshore wells
will not be drilled below the top of the abnormal pressure zones without
1/ Although a D-P vessel was appropriate for ONGC's needs, none was avail-
able at that time. Therefore, the advertisement was for a non-D-P ves-
sel. However, a D-P vessel unexpectedly became available after the
advertisement was issued.



-20-
special precautions 1/, to mitigate against the risks of blow-out have been
or will be taken. With respect to the 5 deep onshore wells and for the off-
shore wells, ONGC or the drilling contractors will arrange to insure rigs,
all equipment and personnel. The arrangements will cover blow-outs and
clean-up and pollution liability in the event of offshore oil spills. These
arrangements are satisfactory (Sections 2.08 (a) and (b), draft Project
Agreement).
ONGC - Financial Evaluation
55.       ONGC's overall financial position is sound, with a debt/equity
ratio of 50:50, a current ratio of 1.4 on March 31, 1982, and a debt service
coverage ratio of almost 8 times for 1981/82. This satisfactory situation is
due to the rapid increase in oil production from Bombay High, the increase in
oil prices in July 1981 and ONGC's low level of debt until that year. The
debt service coverage ratio is expected to decline, but still remain satis-
factory, through the 1980s. While its key financial parameters (selling
prices, investment programs) are decided by GOI, ONGC is able to operate in a
financially responsible manner. ONGC's income statements over the past four
years demonstrate the Commission's rapid growth, primarily because of expand-
ing offshore production. Revenues have increased from Rs 3.8 billion (US$422
million) in 1978/79 to Rs 13.8 billion (US$1,534 million) in 1981/82. Its
financial performance during this period was satisfactory, although its
profits deteriorated somewhat in 1980/81, reflecting the income foregone as a
result of a lengthy stoppage of oil production in Assam. During the period
1978/79-1981/82, ONGC's overall investment amounted to Rs 17.6 billion
(US$2.0 billion), of which 55% was financed from internal cash generation.
56.       ONGC's balance sheet as of March 31, 1982 totals Rs 22.6 billion
(US$2.5 billion), of which net fixed assets are worth Rs 11.2 billion
(US$1,245 million).
57.       Financial projections over the period 1982/83-1985/86 indicate that
ONGC's financial performance should continue to be satisfactory. This
forecast conservatively assumes that prices of crude oil and natural gas to
ONGC will remain constant, that the bulk of ONGC's external financing
requirements will be met by borrowings, with no additional Government equity,
and that no new discoveries of crude oil or gas will be made during this
period. The volume of crude oil sales would continue to grow from 17.9
million tons in 1982/83 to 27.9 million tons in 1985/86, with steadily
increasing profits. There is a possibility that, in the event of large
discoveries, ONGC would need to seek heavy borrowings to finance development
costs. In order to protect ONGC's financial position, GOI will periodically
carry out a review of the prices of crude oil and natural gas to ONGC and set
such prices at a level which will enable ONGC to earn a return on capital
employed sufficient to meet its debt service obligations, maintain adequate
working capital, and finance a substantial portion of its proposed capital
1/ Specifically, (i) detailed surveys of deep water and bottom conditions;
(ii) avoidance of drilling during adverse weather conditions; (iii)
location of initial outer-shelf wells to the shoreward areas; and (iv)
use of a dynamically-positioned drillship.



-21-
expansion (Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement). ONGC's investment program
for 1982/83-1985/86 is Rs 115.5 billion (US$12.8 billion). While this
program is ambitious, it is well-balanced, and concentrates appropriately on
accelerating the exploration of the more prospective areas, such as the
Krishna-Godavari basin, and development of the more productive known oil and
gas resources, such as the Bombay High and South Bassein fields. However,
ONGC is expected to finance almost 75% of its investments from internal
sources. In addition, as it has done in the past, ONGC is expected to resort
to foreign borrowings, both commercial and official, to help finance the
foreign exchange portion of its investment program. In line with this
approach, ONGC's international invitations to contractors and suppliers to
subimit bids for ONGC investment projects now include a request for financing
proposals.  During 1980/81-1981/82, disbursements of US$230 million from
commercial loans and credits and of US$385 million from overseas development
assistance covered 56% of the foreign exchange requirements of ONGC's invest-
ments. For the remaining years of its investment program through 1985/86,
between 40-60% of the foreign exchange requirement is expected to be financed
from commercial borrowings. So far, during 1982/83, ONGC has already
obtained commitments of about US$245 million from foreign commercial sources
and nearly US$60 million from bilateral development assistance sources; an
additional US$200 million, including some for the Krishna-Godavari project,
is likely to be contracted from commercial sources (commercial banks and
export credits) in the current fiscal year. Bid packages with a foreign
exchange component of at least US$500 million will be issued this year with
the invitation to submit financing proposals. The Bank's contribution to
ONGC's overall foreign exchange financing requirements over the project
period is expected to be about 6%.
Accounts and Audit
58.        Each project unit has a Finance and Accounts Section which reports
through the Project Manager to the Member (Finance) of ONGC. The Internal
Audit Section reports to the Member, Finance and performs satisfactorily.
ONGC's accounts are audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
which is considered acceptable. ONGC's financial statements will be sub-
mitted to the Bank semi-annually, and its audited accounts will be submitted
to the Bank not later than 12 months after the end of each fiscal year (Sec-
tion 4.02, draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
59.        Notwithstanding strenuous efforts to develop existing oil reserves,
India remains heavily dependent on imported oil to meet its energy needs.
Discovery of additional oil reserves will have a marked impact on the balance
of payments and assist the economy to adjust without unduly constraining its
growth. On the basis of seismic surveys and drilling results to date, it
is clear that the Krishna-Godavari basin is highly prospective, and that the
lik,elihood of establishing commercial reserves in the project area, both
onslhore and offshore, is high. The proposed project is, therefore, a criti-
cal element in India's investment strategy. Even relatively modest dis-
coveries would have a beneficial impact on the balance of payments and the



-22-
economy and yield satisfactory 1/ returns.
60.       ONGC has a vital role to play in India's exploration efforts, a
role whose importance will not diminish as foreign oil firms step up their
exploration activities. The project would significantly improve ONGC's
exploration capability. During project preparation, the Bank has already had
an important influence in shaping the project, and GOI's exploration strategy
in the Krishna-Godavari basin. Through technical assistance and association
with experienced foreign contractors who will execute the difficult drilling
and specialized seismic survey programs, ONGC will gain valuable experience
in designing its exploration program, in specialized seismic survey work, and
in drilling in deep, high-pressure gas zones and difficult deep water areas.
61.       The project involves some risk that insufficient hydrocarbons will
be discovered to justify the investments, particularly in the outer shelf
where larger finds are necessary to justify the high cost of exploration. On
the basis of the data available to date, however, the geological risk appears
acceptable. There is also a technical risk that difficult drilling and
testing conditions will prevent efficient or timely completion of the
project. To mitigate these risks, experienced foreign contractors will
execute the most complex portions of the drilling programs. In addition,
technical assistance is provided to assist ONGC in supervising the onshore
and outer shelf drilling programs which will be carefully designed. Also,
the maximum evaluation of data provided by each outer shelf well will be
undertaken so as to reduce the number of wells required to determine whether
the discovery is of commercial proportion and to re-orient the program should
results so justify. During implementation, Bank and ONGC staff will closely
monitor the data being obtained, and review the comparative economics of
alternative exploration prospects. The flexibility of the program (see
para 47 above) will contribute to reducing the financial risks to acceptable
levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and ONGC and the draft Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ONGC
would be an additional condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft
Loan Agreement).
1/ E.g., discoveries of 5 million barrels of oil onshore, or about 30-50
million barrels in the inner shelf or 150 million barrels in the outer
shelf would yield a 20% rate of return. The equivalent figures for gas
are 3.5 billion cubic meters onshore, and about 15-22.5 billion cubic
meters in the inner shelf. Based on existing geological data, the poten-
tial accumulation in each environment is estimated to be at least as
large as these amounts.



-23-
64.,      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
September 16, 1982



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  1  of  5
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                           M0ST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL          i76                                    MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2              1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNPP!RCA!ITA(US$)                     70.0       110.0      240.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOaRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    111.2        152.5    194.4               448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.3               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1694.4
YEAR-STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPULATION DENSITY                                                                                                                            -
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3       166.6     200.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       307.8     362.8              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.7      40.2               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5        54.2      56.8              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6         3.1       3.0                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1                2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.7       2.4                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        12.0      22.6               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      99.0              108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6        90.4      88.8/c             97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6        49.7      48.4/i             56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2        14.8      13.1Cr             20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     26.2        20.7      17.4               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2         48.1      51.8               57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0       139.0     123.4               89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0               32.9                    32.0
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0               70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0               22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0               18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0               72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0                4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4      4889.0   3630.6              3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5   5696.1              4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e           1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                               ..          ..     362.3/i           301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..   10432.8/e           5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
URBAN                              2.6         2.8        ..
RURAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIAI80CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEI4ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)t
M08T RECENT       LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0        90.0       92.0/i            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0        56.0       63.0/?             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                     37.6
MALE                  30.0        36.0       36.0/;?            63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0        15.0       17.ore             41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0           1.0       0.7/f              1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         20.9         ..              20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9         21.5      33.6               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          0.0       1.0                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1           4.1       3.7                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7         32.5      31.8               29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      13.2               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                     38.5
MALE                                 57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9      25.9               23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIG2EST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/     22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.91j    49.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77j     7.0/.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27     16.2/f
PCOVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     132.0              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..     114.0              111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                ..                    178.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAIN                               ..           ..      40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/al  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
I.:  1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /I  1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not..:  Although lhs date ar  drso  fro- n e  generlly judged ibs mas  eubriaieed reliable, In should als  be noted that they say no  bentr
ognionally coepereble becose of the lack of scadnladieed definition   en...d  -oipte osd by different.. ontrin  in to1lectiag the date.  The date a. e  eras-...
thelass,.. ueful no dsertibe ordersof magnitude, indi.tat  trends, eel the-strie-  -eeti. mejor differen.ee ben....tIoo..ris. .
Thea osfarare groups se 11) the s. m ....untry group of tha sob j.e I. tooty and '(2) s nouniry getp etob etehthiho    eeemonis  ihe tourney grop
oftb  sabj-r co...try (eotpo  for    "Ighl Ioose   Oil Onporier" group eft-re "iddle Inca- North Afriosan  Middletet  Is choeen bacatee of sr e
ot-ultrl-  effinities.    Itth  reerac   gop data the  -n-rage  ar  Populetion eeightsd eritbheti Ian                     lfo  eac  ildicatr ed  hoeny  h"e
majority of th  couoiries in     group toe der  fortihet indiosto. .Sinc  the oene-g   of c..tnie o-n  ths indicetors dlenda or the onailabiliny of data
and isnnlioe  tcinms  c enr teed in  Iee  nmeea   f le. indicetor to  rthr   The.   --erges are. oty oeful  .In cmpring the  -ale of
cos lndiraot.  ate i.e ti   mog th. coun try end referor  grops.
AREA (thousan.d sqAk.)                                                                              Populetiro Per teie   e                                         P oe,oht   o   oa      Popultion  (tonl
Total - Total surface aret cet   ol.01aeasd  itiandetr; 1979 data.                                   rbn, md ror) divided by their V.repetire tueber of bompitel hede
Eaioiua-tetien   of agrtclt...aI area usdcepraiy   rpemoty                                   -nallble  in public mnd prirate geerlan1         maieiadhsie   n   s
for croPs, pastres  market  td kitchen gardet-o  to lie fallo; 1979 deoc .                        hebilitani-n ceners   Hspiltol  ar        Iaa   oheente per-retly staffed
by at Iees.t one physicior.    thiesoapro-idieg principal1yrto
GNP pog CAPITA (0591) - GMP per copita-      cmtem  tretmre  prics ...a.l-                            dltaerenticdr.                     oalhsiem bovr,inluide heaItb
tclatsd  hy ame conneraiteahod .e Worltak Ata   lP-0 basis); 1960,                           rdimdia.      cntr  eon   ier ifetiyaefd b              heoa    boo by
1970, and 19b0 dens,                                                                                mdclastnt. nre   ief,etc.) eich oIffer in-patienl ato,
datIoln and Pr-ide a linitedl rage of medile  failtis    For stuim-
fENERG  CONSU(MPTION ff0 CAPITA   A-Anua  onsoe..pti-r of co_erial etrgy (coal'                        tic-Iprpseuban hoopioml, ilclude . p W             rH ciO.ga .re        ..spia.la,
and lignite, petroleum     ... raoa 1O  ed bl ydre-, roc-eer d geotherm-i .1e-                      aol rora  hoapitai. loca  or oure  heapcoals eel mdical mod matern.ity
oriclt,y) in  iormso   o    qicalenoper..Pita; 1960. 1970, aol 1979                                 ostrs        pelire1d hopitais art ittloded only under total
dart..                                                                                            Adiseito  pe  b"'Pa  Bad -               -Ttl  uber of  adier   t   rdiet barges
From hoeplculs dliiidedBby rho nuber of brdu.
POPULATfION AfND VIfT  STATISTICS
Total Ppoplation, Mid-Year  thousads) - As of Jolt 1; 1960. 1970,  old 1990                     01151MG
Crbao yneair(ereto   oa)                  .ueo.rant   oa   oulto;Abuebel~d cniacaofe  rop  f idlniluall  "Ih ebore  ll,, quarcerm
differntdefittina l urban areas nay affect comParability of date                                  sod tbeir  ait -.aIa.  A boarlar or lodger soy or maynet be  nilald it
Ibb_Ii; 96. 1970, rod 19-60 Iota.                                                             ....outhold for -noatisicl p-tposeo.
Pcpulanlo- PreJen  ie-o                                                                           Aneragenueke  of parsota pro roo- toal              brht end rara1 -ateragenm
"PorlaionI   at 0   Curen   populatio   .orjeoi-n    fbased et 1980                               be   fpmn   e  coo  it dlubn   n  rrlocpedonrone
toa   ouaionby t            elldot  n  tbeir mortalty aol fetilit   rne.Inllle --eepecti-ely.  cool ~ing  rtluda  t-enrt  otc                                          n
PoctinPer,noinra fo    erey rae..pien    hoeleesacn                                      uocpIed par-a
in  lte  necs  Ipa  brth inoe ..         nb.00r  npr001einoomo                            Atle-aco Elai.-rioIy (peo-eo  of d-llingo) - otal., urban, and rurel1
lenel, and f.eel  liferIcunyna iiugt7.5 yaa   Tha per-.otetloa  d-eloaut    lorot   nlcn    uress   eotrt
meter  for fertility cace elno hu.a th-  le-e1a au                'In elte  in                 of tcu,  ocet  an   urldallg   reepoiry.
Eah counrov It chaIlal te  ln fcet- riacautceto   EuDaiy                                    UCATIOfN
od fertilit y treode for p-ojeo-Lon pupne                                                     dutdfrlso    oion
Sltsio..sry pplelr- In, a stat trey populatiot tb.r. it no groath since                           Prnr-oho               lnl  and fea~. i-Cr-a  coa,sle and finale
the  irob rar  in lequal to rho deat  rcr, -od alue the ogeetrut.rere-                             orlla,to  of all  g.. an the prinaryIenrl an Prc..ncagee of ore.part-
matcntc.Thie  oab r  only atrforility rcsdecline  t                                     (cey   cho-age pplco   osiyinoludet childre   aged b-li
nba rrplooeseotboth  0f unit... ..rdoco  rt,ubI,           thgnra0c                      yeaut   djcncrd  for dlfferan  lrnch  of primary edu-tirn; for
ofwmnrpluoc   ttsrl fca   'y.  The,tclnr   oua  nnsr   eroonao eith Iner.Ia                                               ... rdcatotoolmt  say  -enrd .101 percan.o
eatlotd enthr boet  of tie proetd ohtcaicie0   h  pplco                                            ince  -nappllaarblwo   ho   h    fi  o   colae
it tIbe yea  2000, and the rate of decOlue nf feccilityraeteceplor-S-codaro school -lttl   ooad ren1l  - Computeda-abono;st-odsry
meno                                                                                                p_ Irtel-.  educa tio  reursa ... a.. . co-  pr  I apyr-ed pr-lnayinrcir
yer  ta  luay p..olarioc ia oroobed - Tha yran oh-n ocation..ry populacio-                     prnd Iegnrltctoa.o  trader craitiog I_ntr-cto_  frr pupils
elan -ill hars.bd..tully of 17 cr 17 year.o-   gr; oor-oy-d-etcuner    eeal
Populmoico Density                                                                                    eucludd.
Per so. km..- Mid-year.... opolain- par  q-ar  kilometer (1fI heocsoea) Ifo                      oa  oa Vnretloct  Ioren   f aec-dory  -  e-aico..  losti-tot i..s
aa;1960, 1(70 Iad 179 den.                                                           IncludeehIa,   indueolel, or other prognami ofich t errae independ-
Paq~ e   gioccl - lat-   - Coopored ae ebone for ugiuirl.lad                            rotly or at dryain__I      _f ecdary Into. lotct._
only; 1960,g 1970 tol 1979 date                                                              Pupil-trte  raio-rrtry, and aooao   - Totl1  ndroteI enrolled in
-oaeitArnrcunfeocr)- Children  fl-l4 ye..r. , -ok tog-age 115-                            poloryan  seodry lantle divided ty ..uohert of tochero  in the
by ... a)-elcd   (160Y, yeoadon-r) an per-teoogesofsid-year popo-                               coo-podogerl.
latc   1986, 1971  an  199  data.                                                              bllt literacyrat   oaroant) I- Lite-atrade1ta  (etlo to rod ard trite)
cpu2latir- iro-b Moto lren-t) - total - A,nuo1 gr-oh rat-  of necal nid-                            anpercr -ge of tota  eb1b  yoypla-i- agad 15 yrart atd ever.
yerpouaio    o  1911-60, 1960-71, ond 1970-90.
Puai_n Irc_h Mte (perroc  -ohneta   nocbao  o   ra                              u          'ONbtU(PTION
lanioro  for 1950-h6    96-0,    end-1   1971-91.                                              Penger Cor.       po.h.ud  ouat10    Poso.gr S.,                 tem  eamoo
Crd    irOMte (per chooseo d) - Alot-1 lIce hiotha per th-o...d of nid-yoar                  cor   ..a log lan  ibnel ight per....;  -1olda-aboaoe,heartees.d
pcaro;1960, 1970, end l9M0 Inca.                                                           nil ...ry orhia
Crude Dtan  Rlto ((or ch-ua.-(-Acldoatba pero oo-nad  of  ud-y...                                Modjo Recei--r Iper tomn   ooatr   -Ii yr   f  arn                           o  radio
p..olacioc; 1960, 1970, soS99.at...a.st                                                                       .ogaeal bIc  a   huedofPopltin   ecIldea                        -
i...o    ..... grdcill  aR-unr-A-ge ounha  of da-gorero .      ea  oily hear in                     licece..d retainers in .....trlra and it ye... ohr  registracill of radio
bar cornl rpodotio   oiod if ala  -p-rie_r  prsn    g-soli er-                                    ont  toe it nifooc; dta fcIecnIpao  a                   cot hcrmprablrsi...
colic p rats; usool 1yfine -year tuI'agl  ding In 19t0, 1970, an.1.1 mee  o-u- e. abolished lllc-oOo.S
y..ill Plencng- Aco adorn, Annua  (ohoonacla) A  _oa   _ner of accoytona-                         T`I MaRnera. (pro1  . IIneadpoua              TV)-forrn      for br-doaIt to
c.hrb-eoo  da-ces under auspice' ofnoioa  frily planning P,orm                             aee  yubl IPar tho...ond popuociot; rothda-  -1i .ornard TVrcler
relyyano-.'aer  (paceo  of-ocieed women) - Peraccmge  fmare                     i          nctoortlet  and in years oht re giatra ion of TI seta wo  in effec..
omnoohild-barig agr (15-u yedni nc ua  cloth-cou_toIda-ior  to                            Nsoapuper Circlatio  rpo thutd population) - ibhr-  thna-rraeIr-.
al   oried otoocin aae a'ge group.                                                            Iooio    f "dolly gecaru        ll .n.r.neopspeo', defined anapriodical
publi-otion denoted primail  to  _ering enea en    Iti  ronsidered
P10D ADft n'TRITION                                                                                   to be 'doily' Of it oppearoa. .        to foot  i mo  a oak.
Ildac of Food Prooto   r    aia(99- 71-400) - oe fPar "aPit ao...a.                              Citema Ancoe1 Att-ndanc   par Capto per Year - eard or the number of
production of all food comendicla.  Pooduotio  out leden seedd ao  teed and                      tiobros ao1d durig  the year. Ocoludiog adminirna to drine-ioIi-eea
on ca.ledar peer bonin.  Comedlcten-uoa  prinary g0010  (e.g. tugerca.e                        and sohle units
insted of aogaor)nich are edibla cod curtain ouctiecta (e.g. cuffae and
'etea _o  _clded).  Aggregea produo-ion  of aech IoI_t. is baa  on. dLAB0R FORCE
naioa Saarg  Proue_       rceoihe  1961-65, 1970, and 1990 deco.                          Total Labor Porte (,h..oaoda) - toE,--t-Ily attire  pern.t.., inoleding
Par -arirs  -upply ofclre   rcetofCrq.rect)                     - Cnpd from                        ermed froat and unemplyed hut necd lutg hoela    tdns 
energ  eqlal_    of trfood tapyl ir  -nilable ic  .ountry per cnpioa                              _cering populationo   l   gt    eit   o i n   etoacutr_                     r
per day.  A aIal  eup l     e  roep,ise domesic pr-d-ci-, inportn laos                           ret     p-rarle; 1960, 19(0ad190Iota
enpoca, end changas in a-ok.  tat  1uyis  r  uI   nmlefed, soda,                                 fnale (pyrerteo   - Female labor   frrr I oP.rc.ccagao  totalbo  forte.
qurnbteued 10 foo   oocetg d rlssed             ndicbuo.   eqire                            giuloeferoi-    Labor  o-c  to farsng, 0fo-ory,  brio    n
marts. trr atieitod by FAO haoed onphyeiclcgical r-de for c a1an-flabhtog no perc                                    Sag  of total labor force; 1960, 1970'and 1991 data.
Ifyod health to-idering rci...orat c-           at-i  o  body meiht. ag                       I.d-ery(poat  -Lbor fyrra in mIring.  .. ontr-ction,mauaur
ad an   btot i-ufo  I0 popu laric, ald aliocog  11  ecn  for inae atad ele- rio ty,..aser atd too u  p-erorge of  otol. labor forte;
houoholdlnr;96-5  190  n  197 dat._                                                                1960, 1970 end 1980 da.
Pe   airsply of  -rtrln ICosa..r lay) d   -P..   ...rona el  of yent -pita               ParticipationAto(ecet   tota.mlr, and _femae 1                   ar I  Pa      o
net _nypl  to fod per day.  Net soply of food ta dafload ana            Rne     -                aotioioyreIenarroo-putrd        rool   ol, and female Isbrfroa
qulan -t fr  llr ...olnaa lihru hy loDe p-oide for nhio                                    P......e   of totl, male utd femal  popolenlon of all a               -e ep-c ti-ly;
a1lloao.e o- f     g6 ._as   f          tcoolp irei  yet oy end 70 gra-  of ecieal ond           1960, 1970, ad 1900 data.   O heteore natal on lILa' P..tioipsoi-aa
pulse prr Io   f ohiob  10 Eruam  should heanma  pro-ain.  Thes  -cod-                                      Stlnrngae-e   Itctr   f thr populaion, and long time  rend.A
arde aro lonerIra. no  o   5orm    f    o  yrnticaod 75 goama of                                 fewenimanur  fro   nonoca  a.ur.e..
anima  proneito anaa        Be m   te  tnorld  y             'yAeDbOIn th  Third             EcotonloI Dpen.drocy  Rato         .Mtt  of  puaItloo under 15 and 65 and oner
World Ford Surre.y; 1961-65, 1970 ad  1977 dr.to th  total labor rorce.
Pe  ait   orin aupply foota. a   an   ue - otio auppl o,f food de-
rOved foon  nimaa and pul... trgoaa..  prr day; 1961-65, 1970 ond 19(7 data.                 IfNCOME  DISTRIBUTION
Child (.... 1-41 loath Mot  (yer tho....od) - Atn-l d.toht par thb....nd io                       kerntg   fPoanIcm    1t  not   n  hod) - Moc.ne b,                      y richest
aegop14year-, cc children in this age gEol , fo -ordr-lep ig tot                             ecn,ribec't    percen, poorent1  pacat,ad lpoet40p paroo
tlino dora derioad free lida tablat, 1960, 190cl10   aa                                           f I..ieholln.
ooAL,Tft                                                                                          POPtETI TARGET  GROUPS
LIfe taceuanoy ao Slth fyrers A--uerge oubet of year  of lifa ormaei.ig                 Thn rololg aori"ate  er er   pyrco -aemaur   fpnrty le-ela
at birth; 196,  970 ad 191  dat.                                                                 and should hr  nnerprte.d oih Ion idaralateutlt
Ifnfon  M-tal' icRata Irro thousan d) .- unu1 deaths of ioda-nauclero -Y-r                       Etni-arad Absolutr PonryIcm   ne   olpar carial.   - orb an -olrorl
of age per rhonood lir  ith;190 1970 no11ed 190   ae                                             Ansolu-  po..erty  Incm  lnlcita    "onIolblooih a  inm
bocte  no  afe  acerlyrocnt c  poplatin) -total, orha.-       d al rura  -  oN-            nutrlitionlly adequt  dIrt plot. enaec1til nonfodV raqurhm ais no
bin  of pe...lr (total  ora,ad  rurl) alth reooeblncceetaae                                        ffrlat
_arrrsPpy oolden craooaed tuf_o o_                ao u_ traie  ho   _....t...nled              oEri-ard Rbilat  e P-n-t  Ioor  lae  fItS1 per  oia      ra   n   ua 
percetagesI o1f.theIr  -pnclina pepu,lA,lo_s   It an urban           npablic                     Peroalicoeo  tle coutry.  Irbar lroei in derin-d from  the  .rura
focri   roadpono 1ocatad nor mor  that 200 meer  (roe a h...a mayb                               lenr    i othadju_tent  for higheor 000  of linning In urban. areas.
c--ideo-d  baehing cithic r...ceonbla ac.e.a of nha,c booe             Ir-rel ar..ae           rimated Poclaci-n Sel_ Annol-e Povert  Income                 _Ie  peoo)     ra
rescbl   tre   ol  impl'y obhtrc  torola0   ehr f tca h..e.hold                        and  -orl1  Porent of Ppopulaion fur- atsd recal   ho are  esl
boot.. hel te yrnularrpooltatprn hd                             io facIItirg thaor'
fanily' n et no-adn.
Aortas to Soornta Ooeo-a-l lprcer.c of _cpu.lurll     -total, uat  end ourol-
tiur--of etyl f     toaleior    n I atdo-o'l7   anrt  oorotal dlypooala
the  onomo  chaI deapa..rn    l tonpo     it.-     re  . lo, orr  doapoal nup Io lod
PP,polfio   pe  Pyuca --I,        lri   dinided by nub-r of prtfiniog phyoi-                                                            tEocoi  end Social Data Vinisi-n
data. quapifield from  o-diouI -chool at  .....eaiy   venl.                                                                      Eonoio Anlypein and  Poe              Depart-en
Poruleti-c per ONraia  ecn  Poua ltvbIlda  by ne-ber of poa-iotogfts  198 2
nusig   uili isoa.



Page 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVE OPT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 24D
GROSS N4TIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 S                                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROQ   j (z. constant prices) cS
USS Bln.                       195556-1959160  1960/61-1964165   1965/66-1969f70   1970h71-1974f75   1975/76-197 9f80
GNP at Market Prices                 159.37     100.0                    3.7                3.6                3.6                2.9              4.1
Gross Domestic Investment             38.46      24.1
Gross National Saving                 35.30      22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16      -2.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN  1978
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force  i/             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             %             Nil.        %                 USS         % of Nationl Averase
Agriculture                           39.8           39.6             180.6      70.7                220              56
Industry                             25.2            25.1              32.2      12.6               783             199
Services                             35.5            35.3              42.6     16.7                833             211
Total/Average                       100.5           TFU               25.ii 4
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government       e/                                      Central Government
Rs. Bln.   _        of GDP                                        Rs. Bln.          7 of GDP
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77-1980/81                                1980/81    1980/81   1976/77-1980/81
Current Receipts                   238.19     19.0         19.1                                      125.41      10.0           10.6
Current Expenditures               238.93     19.0         18.0                                      133.29      10.6           10.6
Current Surolus/Deficit             -0.74     -0.1          1.1                                      - 7.88     - 0.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/          107.35       8.5         7.6                                        79.99       6.4            5.4
ExternaL Assistance (net) d/       12.86       1.5          1.0
MONEY, nREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    February 1981   February 1982
(R. Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Roney               109.8      194.6       223.2      273.2       329.1       398.6      467.9       553.1        536.13           615.53
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6         95.3        97.9      118.5       137.3      162.4       201.0      258.1         238.22           292.18
Bank Credit to Com-ercil Sector   64.6         126.5       153.7      185.1       212.2      253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                  April-Feb 1980/81  April-Feb  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as R of GDP  27.3         28.0        30.1       33.9        40.8       40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0       174.9      173.0       176.6      185.8       185.8      217.6       257.0          255.9                  280.5
Annusl percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       25.2        -1.1        2.1         5.2         -         17.1        18.1          18.4                    9.6
Bank Credit to Governoaent (net)    15.0         9.2         2.7       21.0        15.9       18.3        23.8        28.4          28.6 2/                22.7 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4         18.2        21.5       20.4        14.6       19.5        20.8       18.6           16.6 g/                20.9 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at arket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All. loans and advances to third parties have-been netted out.
R/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to ecd-February 1981.
h/ Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown fro,n Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANMEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAY}ENTS              1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                       US$ Mln.      J
Exports of Goods                  6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700          Engineering Goods              908         12
Imports of Goods                 -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000             Te                             506          7
Trade Balance                    -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300            Gems                           403          5
NFS (net)                            717      1,100         722         915          Clothing                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  - 824      -2.204    - 6.612    - 6J85J  Products                                 457          6
Jute Manufactures             303          4
Interest Income (net) k/              14         196        370         212          Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Transfers   1/                1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840          Cotton Textiles                316          4
Sugar                         102          1
Balance on Current Account          375       - 431      -3.163      -4 333          Others                       3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                         Total                        710
Disburements                   1,695       1,738      2,337       2,724 S/         XTERL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amortization                   - 702       - 608      - 707       - 659                                                 USS billion
Transactions with IMF             - 158         -         1,035         690          Outstanding and Disbursed                  17.2
All Other Items                      265      - 475         147       - 797          Undisburead                                 7.5
Outstanding, including                    24.7
Increase in Raeerves (-)         -1,475       - 224         351      2,375               Undieburced
Gross Reserves (end year)p/       7,357       7,579       7,228      4,853.
Not Reserves   (end year) rL/    7,357        7,579      6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81  LI/ D/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                           IBRD/DA LENDING  DECEMBR 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)              2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                               US$ million
Exports                               24          26         33          .BRD                                                       IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed         984         5646
Undisbureed                      880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                 1864         10280
RATE OF ZXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 * US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$O.137376
After and-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate and-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$O.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - U050.110
1/ Estim ted.
/ Figuras given cover all investment income (not). major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign asea.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
F4  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loan  as  a percentage of exports of goods and services.
o /  Includes $ 234 million of cosercial borrowings.
p/ Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank            IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                              1,516.0             -
73 Credits fully disbursed                                 -           4,315.4            -
342-IN    1973      Education                                            12.0           1.70
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Proc. & Marketing            -              13.0           1.15
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD              52.0             -             8.38
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -              30.0          15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -              83.0          27.24
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -              27.7          10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -              16.4           2.41
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply            -              40.0          12.40
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -             105.0          12.71
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -             150.0          34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.          -               4.0           1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -              18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0             -            68.27
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                              40.0             -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0             -            20.90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                80.0             -            11.52
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0             -             6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -              30.0          20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -              20.0           5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -             150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development              -              24.0           0.10
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research        -              12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0             -             6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -              10.0           4.40
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                            23.0          12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -               8.0            5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -              70.0           23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -              13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -              58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5             -             4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -             107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -              87.0          16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -                8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0             -            10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0             -            38.55
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6          70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -             200.0          90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -              14.0          12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -              85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -              17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -              16.0           13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0             -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -             150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -             196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -             111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -              190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -              38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -              27.0          24.01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                 25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                   -              30.0           15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -             200.0         135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -             129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -              48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -             175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -              23.0          14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -              20.0          19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -             210.0         155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -              46.0          44.73
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -              32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -              18.0           14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -             175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -             300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -              22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -               10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -              56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -              54.0           51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -               80.0          73.53
1843-IN   .1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0             -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0             -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -             225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0              -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0              -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -              35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -              83.0           80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -             140.0          140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -              54.0           54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0         387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -              23.0           23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -              37.0           37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -              125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -               400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -            220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0            -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982     West Bengal Social Forestry            -             29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0             -          150.00
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0             -           300.00
2095-IN*   1982     ARDC IV                              190.0             -          190.00
1209-IN*   1982     ARDC IV                               -             160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -               6.0          6.00
Total                                    3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid               1,137.4            94.7
Total now outstanding                    2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                    .133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,062.1         4,192.2
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
:1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
:1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
]L964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
:1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
:L967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1,978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9      8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0        2.6     42.6
Repaid                        24.5         -       24.5
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      94.0        7.9    101.9
Undisbursed                   84.9        1.4      86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year.  Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983                            _
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems.  Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound. Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
ticin well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being hanid]ed satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of ahe implement-
ing agcncies :Gi,tinule, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
merit of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly.  All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12 1978; Effective Date: August 10. 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177 Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
madea to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schiedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



.ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closin8
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quaLlity agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
inclustry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
soc:io-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr.. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule.  Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KRISHNA-GODAVARI PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       (a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About nine months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
June and November 1980, respectively.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
June 30, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 15, 1982.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) ONGC will periodically submit the revised exploration
program for Bank review (para 47);
(b) ONGC will obtain advisory services for initial well
drilling from consultants when needed (para 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) ONGC will make adequate arrangements for the
insurance of project wells against blow-outs and
spills (para 54);
(d) ONGC will ensure that appropriate safety norms are
followed (para 54); and
(e) GOI will periodically review crude oil and gas prices
and set them at levels required to permit ONGC to
meet its operating expenses and earn an adequate rate
of return (para 57).



7'\ _  . > 2                                                                                           N Al
DEM. RER OF                 >-                                                           KRISHNA-GODAVARI
DEAA. REP. OF                            'AVu                                                      PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
,9   /  /                              C    I.F:tN - Sl S) I SAIJ
AFGHAN ISTAN                                                            J, ..  JnI.tt73FIF   n s
> . o e ~~~~~~ad                      <                                                      Ar  ,C,,D'.'  I |Fls SAREorS,lrAr-r: fNZESRISHIARRAS PI.r:snlr z em 11:
F' 'EST [11 PRAOUCT RiFE. 5
.i  S .   u 5 H M/ IrSA S T  CP ID' P PA I-E
7/                           1       o  -            il                                           sL   ~cSt FI,T  - s   rr I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-I ---'.vSAAA LAsO                                              N.A,l
| _Se/N CA/i4 <\,.2   Zt'&j&                                                                     C I  TAF  A-A  TRALsNS
, Jx xf                      .   Qt~~~~~~~ PRA'S [7-    N                                       _____ TAR- A sT JNION TERR TCBR>n P's SRTA,SSL
\  5  ! Jtllundu  j   *                                           -'-   NTERA,LBJD-
PAKISTAN                      3  0
bD                          9/ A   Q  (\   <            >       > _~~Phtmd        C        H        I       N       A                 t:; 'nmSn
$(,<@<N ~~~~~NEPAL \%
-~~~~FAInd                           -04, en.Shufr    /      1X                                                                             -4       5>-<iAT4
/                       ( 5<   _o,la    u          r3UG  s  ; >%
'-<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                              BHUT~rDdPp>c y        ) 9~nOhlPr Bi,    X fs  NLANES   f  
g ~ ~      ~~~                                     XLH                                                                       2(2/ (pd  fKair    RADFS/      ,[t BURN
\  /)             /'                                  Mahr   RA  (511es            NEAL, _''v u                         tZV~c                  r<)2
H55   -AN                                        Las  w\.I.Sh  IoqicrIRL.r/-A'/0
'I                                                                     ---.~~~~'-~~.  t-    ~ ~ ~ ~ i  2                         <RACE/up.t
an/a    Kook)  /                                               h,        R       .            %
A                                          .-  ,7 : SP%                                              ~      7,               N rL) 
Ah-  do~<MADHYA                             P RA  0  DS/- H\OOtO                                                  ~
--~B9PO                                                                             oc.E- VisrLhO  -' -   'n- /|BURMA
-     Anltso         '>' -            Hdear                 J<bn
M4                ) A Al A?             r' H 7,?'
,  r                                            -'u-)ET'iE
IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
, ~      ~~~~~~~~ W   .   H~
~~    B   I C   <    MRL<iLMudruS                                                         r4NDAR/SAI  /-  AR                   AS
0p  0/uSES  SI-/TEA                         S RA D  S      2-.>RSHI. ....
*    >HP                                                            "   ,
-   * CosbmLcR         - 4,J,, ,                             O         EY      00       3QQ 500 b           r, KIPE
AND/TEA ~ ~ ~ '~(T  l.E
GOA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S/ DSK6)
N   --   v   ttVAvAt)      >  / t -,zA                              i    O    aD)   ' O   qlkil 5eta6X  Qoo6QQ 10L5M/6)
KARN/A TAKA
TrMongolare      .'t.          '
. ..  'AA--A'- "    MRL                                                                    AD        NIlhD
r5LANVDS
CoctuoO                                                         0   7    0   r     .    __,         109       0,/00. ./#+ .... es 6. I.V s........... ef ..... V ,e, .d.tb. ffi .........300. HD...   MISS'
k'I-tAS                                                    I          L)   Ms   ails/tI    0-0   700  P00 KS#17EETER
SRI LANKAISAD
0                                                                                                                                                                                  0



