OFFRCIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2205 IN
DONCUMRENTS
Loan Agreement
(Krishna - Godavari Petroleum Exploration Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2205 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   As    dA$    /    , 1982, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   BANK    FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND    DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
I (B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Oil
and Natural Gas Commission with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Oil and Natural Gas Commission     the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments  of   the  Bank  being   hereinafter  called  the   General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Commission" means the Oil and Natural Gas Commission
established under the Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959 of
the Borrower;


﻿- 2 -
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Commission of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to
the Project Agreement and any agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Commission pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the
Subsidiazy Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Project Area" means an area of the Krishna - Godavari
basin of about 17,000 km2, onshore and offshore, which is defined
as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)  "inner shelf" means the section of the offshore Project
Area between the shoreline and about the 165 m isobath line, and
"outer shelf" means the remainder of the offshore Project Area;
and
(f)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Commission or by any one
or more Subsidiaries of the Commission or by the Commission and
one or more of its Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred   sixty-five  million   five  hundred   thousand   dollars
($165,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works (including technical services
for seismic surveys and well drilling and analysis) required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to two million four
hundred forty-five thousand eight hundred thirteen dollars
($2,445,813). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself te amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
-ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the


﻿-4-
Borrower shall cause the Commission to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
the Commission therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or,appropriate to enable
the Commission to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan in its currency to the Commission under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Commission, on teims and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, that
the Commission shall:
(i) pay interest on the principal amount so relenL and
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
rate of 12% per annum; and
(ii) repay the principal amount so relent over a period
of twenty years, including five years of grace.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to. accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Commission will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Commission or cause the
Commission to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expendiuares.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall from time to time carry out
a review of the price of crude oil and natural gas paid to the
Commission and, on the basis of such review, shall set such
prices at the level required to enable the Commission to earn,
under conditions of efficient operation, revenues sufficient
(i) to meet its operating expenses and tax liabilities; and (ii)
to produce, for each fiscal year of the Commission, a return


﻿-6-
after taxes on its assets employed in operations which, together
with the amount allocated for depreciation charges for such year,
permits the Commission to meet its debt service requirements, to
maintain adequate working capital and to finance a substantial
portion of its proposed capital investments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Commission shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occured after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Commission will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Act referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Commission to perform any of its obligations under the Pro-
ject Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Commission or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) A Subsidiary shall have been created or acquired by the
Commission,  if   such  creation  or   acquisition  will  affect
materially and adversely the conduct of the Commission's business
or its financial condition or the performance of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Commission.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within  the meaning    of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the   General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Commission.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Commission, and is legally binding upon the
Commission in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Commission and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Commission in
accordance with its term.
Section 6.03. The date                  is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Goverament of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 110001, India


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-31354
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in thcir respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By//
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By         /4    iZpIL     '$V
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation ot
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Technical                 23,000,000           100% of foreign
services for                                 expendiZ-ures
seismic surveys
under Parts A (i),
B (i) and B (ii)
of the Project
(2) Technical well            22,000,000           100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(3) Drilling materials        38,000,000           100% of foreign
and supplies for                              expenditures
wells under Parts A                           and 100% of
(iii) (a) and B                              local expendi-
(iii) of the Project                         tures ex-fac-
tory
(4) Materials and              3,000,000          100% of foreign
equipment for                                expenditures
completion of wells                          and 100% of
under Parts A (iii)                           local expendi-
(a) and (b) of the                           tures ex-fac-
Project                                       tory
(5) Drilling con-             28,000,000          100% of foreign
tractors' services                           expenditures
(rig-hire charges)
under Part A (iii)
(a) of the Project
(6) Drilling con-             33,000,000          25% of foreign
tractors' services                           expenditures
(rig-hire charges)
under Part B (iii)
of the Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount             of            the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Fee                        2,445,813          Amount due
(8) Unallocated               16,054,187
TOTAL         165,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the   term   "drilling  materials  and  supplies" means
casings, well-heads, drill bits, cement, chemicals and drilling
mud; and
(d) the term "technical well services" means specialized
contractors'   services  for   core   analysis,  mud-engineering,
logging, mud-logging, cementing, diving, production testing and
completion of wells.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $6,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (6)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after May 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which _n the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The Project represents the Commission's 1982/83 - 1985/86
hydrocarbon exploration program in the Project Area, located in
the Krishna - Godavari basin. The overall objective of the
Project is to establish the commercial potential of hydrocarbon
reserves in that basin, and to test the more promising structures
in the Project Area for oil and gas.       This purpose is to be
achieved through:
(i) improvement of the definition of known hydrocarbon
prospects and identification of new prospects in the
Project Area, both onshore and offshore;
(ii) acceleration of the drilling program on the hydrocarbon
prospects identified in the Project Area, both onshore
and offshore; and
(iii)  strengthening of the Commission's continuing efforts to
further develop its capacity for designing hydrocarbon
exploration programs and drilling structures under
difficult geological and environmental conditions.
2.   The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Onshore Project Area
(i) High resolution seismic surveys totaling about 1,000
line km, designed to produce a better definition of the
deeper prospects in the onshore Project Area.
(ii) Completion of the ongoing conventional seismic program
totaling about 2,400 line km, designed to identify
other prospects in the"onshore Project Area.
(iii) Drilling of new exploratory wells, as follows: (a)
about five wells on deep gas prospects, with an average
target depth of 4,500 m; (b) about four wells to
explore the upper portion of the cretaceous layer, with
an average target depth of 4,000 m; and (c) about three
wells with an average target depth of 3,250 m.


﻿- 13 -
Part B:   Offshore Project Area
(i) Special seismic surveys totaling about 3,500 line km in
the shallow water area (to about the 12 m isobath
line), designed to permit an integrated interpretation
of the geology of the onshore and offshore portions of
the Project Area and to identify prospects on the inner
shelf section of the offshore Project Area.
(ii) Infill seismic surveys totaling up to about 4,000 line
km required for a better definition of the prospects in
the offshore Project Area not covered under Part B (i)
of the Project.
(iii) Drilling of exploratory wells, as follows: (a) about
eleven wells on prospects on the inner shelf, with an
average target depth of 4,000 m; and (b) about five
wells on prospects on the outer shelf, with an average
target depth of 3,500 m.
Part C:   Strengthening of the Commission
Continued development of the Commission's capacity to plan
and supervise the exploration programs to be carried out under
Parts A and B of the Project and to evaluate the results thereof.
*          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1988
through   February 1, 2002               5,515,000
On August 1, 2002                              5,565,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                               9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              11.60%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Definition of the Project Area
(Section 1.02 (d) of the Loan Agreement)
The Project Area is the area within a line joining the
following sequential points:
Latitude (N)      Longitude (E)
A.       160  52'           820  36'
B.       160 52'            800 50'
C.       150  40'           800 501
D.       150  40'           810 04'
E.       150  42'           810  04'
F.       150 42'     about 810   09' (intersection of 150 42'
latitude with 300 m isobath)
G. about 160 07'            810 43' (intersection of 300 m
isobath with 810 431
longitude)
H.       160 08'            810 43'
I.       160 08'           820 00'
J.       160  10'           820 00'
K.       16'  14'           820 06'
L. about 160  13'           820 06' (intersection of 820 06'
longitude with 300 m
isobath)
M.       160 34'     about 820   28' (intersection of 300 m
isobath with 160 34'
latitude)
N.       160 34'            820 26'
0.       160 47'            820 36'
P.       160  52'           820 36'
These points are joined by straight lines, except between
points F and G and points L and M where the line follows the
300 m isobath line.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          - day ofj    , 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


