 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14906

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 05/23/2016

               Country: Philippines
             Project ID: P084967                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Mindanao Rural                 Project Costs (US$M):                  130.00               124.68
                         Development Project -
                         Phase 2
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                     83.75                    79.65
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):                      6.35                     5.59
                         Development
           Cofinanciers: GEF                          Board Approval Date :                                  03/22/2007
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2012           12/31/2014
           Sector(s):      Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (55%); Other social services (19%); Irrigation
                           and drainage (15%); Sub-national government administration (8%); Water supply (3%)
          Theme(s):        Decentralization (25%); Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Participation and civic
                           engagement (24%); Other rural development (13%); Municipal governance and institution
                           building (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              Fernando Manibog        Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
    The project was the second project of a four-phase 15-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the Mindanao Rural
Development Program. The Program Objectives in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 3) were: "to improve
incomes and food security in the targeted rural communities within all of the provinces in Mindanao. The program is
focused on strengthening rural public investment programs (supporting the implementation of the Agriculture and
Fisheries Modernization Act), reinforcing the Local Government Code institutional framework, while ensuring close
involvement of rural communities in the design and implementation of public investment programs intended to
improve productivity and livelihoods".

The same objectives were stated in the PAD (p. 5) and the Loan Agreement (p .21):
"(i) improve livelihood opportunities for targeted communities ; and (ii) institutionalize a decentralized system for
agriculture and fisheries service delivery that promotes participation , transparency and accountability ".

The proposed third-phase APL did not proceed. The second-phase project provided the design to roll out a program of
rural development nationwide. The originally planned third phase APL was replaced by the Philippine Rural
Development Project, which builds on Department of Agriculture's updated Agricultural Fisheries Modernization Act
through a value-chain, market-oriented and integrated service delivery approach in partnership with Local
Government Units (LGUs), expanding on the approach developed through the project.

In addition to the IBRD loan, the project was co-financed by Global Environment Facility (GEF) through the Natural
Resource Management Project (P096836), which was approved on September 17, 2009 and closed on the same date
of the main project on December 31, 2014. The Global Environment Objectives (GEOs) stated in the Project Appraisal
Document for the GEF Project were (p. ii): "Critical coastal and marine biodiversity conserved in targeted sites and
supported by sustainable land management in linked upland areas" .
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had four components:

1. Investment for Governance Reform and Program Administration (IGR) (Appraisal Estimate :
US$4.4 million, Actual: US$9.8 million).
The component aimed to provide institutional support and technical assistance to the Department of Agriculture (DA),
mainly at the regional level and the Provincial and Municipal Local Government Units (LGUs) so that eventually
devolved functions of Department of Agriculture could be handed over to LGUs. In addition, it aimed to improve
governance and accountability mechanisms, both at the national and local government levels. The local governments
were required to implement governance reforms to be eligible for additional grant funding from the National
Government to implement projects. This was in line with the medium-term objective of making LGUs more fiscally
responsible and independent.

There were three sub-components: i) improving the capacity of participating LGUs in resource management and
service delivery in agriculture and fisheries; ii) enhancing the capacity of DA to support participating LGUs’ agricultural
planning and development and agricultural research and extension, through local community participatory processes;
iii) strengthening the capacity of participating LGUs in project implementation and coordination through the provision
of technical assistance and operational support.

2. Rural Infrastructure (Appraisal Estimate US $83.9 million, Actual: US$82.4 million):
This component comprised a program of sub-projects to improve access to basic rural infrastructure services and to
enhance their operation and maintenance standards. Key activities included construction and/or rehabilitation of
selected farm to market roads and single lane bridges, selected community-owned and managed run-of-river
communal irrigation systems, selected level-2 (communal faucets) rural potable water supply systems as well as other
selected rural infrastructure projects. All of these infrastructure projects were implemented/contracted by LGUs (but
O&M arrangements for irrigation projects were the responsibility of Irrigation Associations and O&M for water supply
was the responsibility of Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association to be established and trained by the project).
There was also a program for routine maintenance, monitoring and evaluation for construction and rehabilitation. The
Performance-based Grant Program in the LGUs participating in infrastructure sub-projects was dropped during the
first Restructuring of the project in December 2009 due to the Government’s request (performance grants were
designed further incentivize LGUs to participate in the project, which would allow LGUs apply to the subprojects being
supported under the Rural Infrastructure Component). Measures of performance were to include adherence to
practices which would promote good governance and measures which would enhance local revenue generation.
Based on LGU performance, an additional 20% grant from the national government (on top of 50% government
contribution would then be provided to participating LGUs for the implementation of their priority local infrastructure).
The ICR (p. 31) reported that the reason for dropping the “Performance Grants” was practicality concerns on issuance
of “Certificates of Performance”, coupled with a looming water crisis (el Nino effects) that caused Government to
reprioritize the US$3 million allocated to “Performance Grants” to supporting water supply and irrigation.

3. Community Fund for Agriculture Development (CFAD) Sub-Projects (Appraisal Estimate : US$30.0 million, Actual:
US$30.2 million).
This involved a program to address diverse investment priorities of rural communities, consisting of financing of CFAD
sub-projects that met community preferences and responded to local priorities, including food security interventions,
community-managed livelihood and agribusiness activities, alternative income-generating activities, and small
infrastructure (the rural infrastructure projects to be included under this component would be smaller size investments
(less than PhP 500,000) and were to be implemented and managed by the beneficiaries themselves). CFAD aimed to
empower communities to generate local savings and manage other investments basic to their development, in
partnership with the LGUs and the other agricultural development stakeholders. The target groups were planned to
consist of at least 30% indigenous people, rural women (with priorities for women-headed households), and youth and
other disadvantaged sectors.

4. Natural Resource Management (Appraisal Estimate US $ 5.4 million and US$6.4 from GEF, Actual: US$4.6 million
and US$5.62 million from GEF ).
This component supported a program to conserve upland resources, and coastal and marine biodiversity. The
component aimed to contribute to the overall sector and long-term objective of the program through implementation of
sound and sustainable management of natural resources and the conservation of coastal resources in priority areas.
The additional GEF support significantly expanded the scope of activities eligible for financing through:
a) Strengthening the capacity of communities, participating LGUs and national agencies involved in the conservation
of upland resources, and coastal and marine biodiversity;
b) Introducing and demonstrating sustainable land management practices and marine and coastal protection
measures to the communities involved in the conservation of upland resources, and coastal and marine biodiversity
through natural resource management subprojects;
c) Increasing community awareness of direct linkages between upland natural resources management and coastal
natural resources management;
d) In addition to the above, the GEF grant supported CFAD-type subprojects in GEF sites, referred to as Sustainable
Income Generating Activities (SIGA) and Strengthening of Community Partnership in Monitoring.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Costs:
Total costs increased from the appraisal estimate of US$123.65 million to US$127.25 million because additional
financing was included via the Global Environment Facility Grant and an AusAid Grant to provide additional support
for Components 4 and 1 respectively.
Financing:
The project was financed by an IBRD Loan (IBRD-74400) that was planned as US$83.75 million at appraisal; at
project closing US$79.65 million was disbursed and US$4.01 million was cancelled. A US$3 million Grant (TF011929)
was provided by the Australia-World Bank Philippines Development Trust Fund to co-finance TA activities under the
first component, and at project closing US$2.7 million was disbursed and US$0.3 million was cancelled. In addition,
the Global Environment Facility provided US$6.35 million, which was approved by the Board on September 17, 2009.
At project closing, 88 % of the original Grant had been disbursed and US$0.8 million was cancelled.

Borrower Contribution :
The Borrower contribution was planned to be US$39.9 million at appraisal. The actual Borrower contribution at project
closing was US$36.6 million.
Dates:
The original closing date of December 31, 2012 was extended to December 31, 2014 via three restructurings. The
reason for extension was due to the significant delays during the initial project start-up on the original loan, as well as
a delay in approving the GEF project. There were nine Level 2 restructurings for the project. The first restructuring on
December 22, 2009, was soon after loan approval when the Borrower requested dropping of the “Performance Grant”
incentive scheme, which reduced LGU interest in participating in the project and resulted in an 18-month delay in
project start-up. The second restructuring (September 9, 2010) reallocated US$2.3M from the second component to
first component reflecting the earlier appraisal estimates, which had been scaled back by the Borrower during
negotiations. Two subsequent restructurings (on November 15, 2011 and June 26, 2012) increased the levels of prior
review for procurement, reflecting the capacity improvement among LGUs. The US$3M AusAid grant was approved
through restructuring on February 29, 2012 and another restructuring July 27, 2012 was done to reallocate
US$0.2million of the GEF Grant (TF094704). The other three restructurings (December 14and December 20, 2012;
and December 20, 2013) were related to the two-year extension of the Loan and the AusAid Grant to December 31,
2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial
The project development objectives were substantially relevant to the country strategies and priorities. At the time of
project appraisal, the weak economic performance in terms of low GDP growth and substantial fiscal deficit had
constrained the ability to reduce poverty and meet the country's development objectives. Thus, sustainable economic
growth and greater social inclusion was the primary focus of the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan
(2004-2010) as well as the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy 2006-2008 (CAS). Both had the strategic goals
to enhance agricultural productivity, land reform, responsible management of natural resources and the environment,
and public sector/expenditure rationalization to improve public service delivery. In addition, poverty reduction and rural
growth, specifically in the island of Mindanao was relevant given the island’s distinct climatic and geographic
advantages that favor agriculture and fisheries; moreover, a large proportion (almost a third) of the country’s poor live
there.

The project objectives were aligned with the overall goals of the Philippine Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
FY15-18 and the updated Philippine Development Plan. Specifically the project was relevant to Engagement Area 3
on Rapid, Inclusive and Sustained Economic Growth, particularly in terms of helping increase economic growth,
productivity and jobs in rural areas; Engagement Area 4: Resilience to climate change, environment, and disaster risk
management, particularly on resilience to climate change impacts, improved natural resource management and
sustainable development; and Engagement Area 5: Peace, institution-building, and social and economic opportunity,
especially on supporting economic development in conflict-affected regions.

The project objectives were relevant to the policy and institutional framework for agriculture and rural development
environment including (i) the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA) of 1997, which sought to enhance
the competitiveness of Philippine agriculture and (ii) the Local Government Code (LGC) of 1991 which inter alia
devolved greater responsibility for agricultural service delivery to LGUs. However, despite these policies, LGUs did
not have the resources to take on agriculture service delivery responsibilities and the DA remained highly centralized
during the time of project preparation. There was little active engagement of LGUs and stakeholders in planning or
implementation, and natural resource degradation, as well as fisheries and biodiversity depletion, were continuing
unabated.

The Philippines’ GEF National Programmatic Framework Document is also fully anchored in the Philippine
Development Plan, prioritizes the objectives of the Biodiversity Focal Area, and supports the International Waters
Focal Area. Project goals and activities remain fully consistent with those focal areas.

There was a weakness in terms of the articulation of the second objective, which is discussed below.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The project investments supporting rural infrastructure and sustainable livelihood/enterprise activities were closely
linked to the achievement of the PDO in substantially raising household incomes and improving livelihoods under the
project. However, the results framework presented two shortcomings: (i) The articulation of the second PDO,
"institutionalize a decentralized system for agriculture and fisheries service delivery that promotes participation,
transparency and accountability" did not seem to consider that being the second phase of a four-phased APL, the
project was still pilot-testing decentralized institutional processes, with expanded scope after the first Phase, and the
ultimate institutionalization would gradually take place with continued efforts. The project activities supported capacity
development for LGU participation and commitment to rural development in Mindanao would contribute to this
“institutionalization” process. (ii) The project design was overly complex with different components implemented by
different organizations sometimes conducting similar activities but having weak linkages with each other. For example
both Component 2 and Component 3 included infrastructure investments managed by LGUs and beneficiaries
respectively but with different O&M arrangements depending on the type of infrastructure investment. Also
Component 4 supported income-generating activities (CFAD) but in GEF sites but these small GEF / Natural
Resource Management (NRM) investments were weakly linked with the infrastructure and enterprise development
investments. Also, the ICR mentioned that NRM is a complex undertaking where incentives, livelihoods, cultural,
social and political aspects need to be addressed, along with technical considerations, but the design did not
adequately allow for this. Furthermore, although not rated by this review, it is important to note that the global
development objectives were also quite ambitious, i.e., conserving critical coastal and marine biodiversity through
sustainable land management is a very long process that would take many years, expecting outcomes during project
implementation period is quite unrealistic.

In addition, the results framework did not include outcome indicators to measure achievement of the second objective.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  (i) Improve livelihood opportunities for targeted communities , rated Substantial.

Outputs:
  The project supported 976.694 direct project beneficiaries of who 49% were women.
  111 km of new rural roads were constructed and 1,203km of rural roads were rehabilitated.
  688 linear meters of single lane bridges were constructed.
  2,175 ha of new area and 2,907 ha of existing irrigation land were rehabilitated and provided with irrigation and
    drainage. 19 Water User Associations were formed or strengthened and 24, 925 people were provided with
    new/rehabilitated irrigation facilities.
  104,708 people were provided with access to improved water sources (using mid-term in the absence of baseline
    data), an increase of 42%. 1800 community water points were constructed or rehabilitated. The ICR noted that
    (p. 9) for some systems, communities beyond the targeted areas also benefited from the investments.
  4,059 CFAD (livelihood & micro-enterprise) sub projects were undertaken involving 180,285 beneficiaries. Of
    those 46% were women and 24% were Indigenous Populations.
  720 ha (GEF) and 1,031 ha (NRM) of marine and fish sanctuaries have been established
  449 ha (GEF) and 697 (NRM) of mangrove forest have been rehabilitated and protected,
  994 ha (GEF) and 2,191 (NRM) of agro-forest or 96% of the original target have been rehabilitated and protected.
Outcomes:
  Based on household surveys (see details in Section 10) , household real income in the project areas increased to
    PhP 102,759, a 36% increase in nominal terms, corresponding to a 20% real income increase (target of 20 %
    increase was achieved). Average household incomes increased by 10% above the control group of non-project
    communities (the target of 10 % was achieved) (ICR p. 6). (Baseline : project areas PhP67589 and nonproject
    areas PhP78471 and project closing: project areas PhP102759 and non project areas PhP96,468 in nominal
    terms).
  The main sources of household income at project completion were from on-farm (39%), off-farm (3%), and
    non-farm (58%). Household incomes from on-farm activities rose by 15%, and from non-farm activities, by as
    much as 67%. The significant increase in non-farm incomes is attributed in part to the benefits from CFAD
    subprojects, as well as from improved road conditions that have led to more people having motorcycles which
    they use for transporting passengers and produce. Income from agricultural production has shifted somewhat to
    non-farm activities perceived as providing more attractive income source (ICR p. 58).
  The length of time needed to reach the market by taking a ride has been reduced by 69% after the
    implementation of Farm to Market Road sub-projects compared to the time before (ICR p. 9).
  Transport costs were cheaper by PhP0.11/kg at baseline in program areas and by PhP0.15 at end of project
    compared to control group. There was therefore a relative cost savings of PhP0.04/ kg or 36% when compared
    with the relative baseline difference (ICR p. 9).
  More reliable water from communal irrigation systems (CISs) constructed/ rehabilitated under the project enabled
    two rice crops/ year to be produced with some farmers getting three crops. The more reliable availability of
    irrigation water also encouraged some farm households to put previously idle lands into production (ICR p.9).
  There was a 67% reduction in the average time to fetch water (ICR p. 10).
  In terms of waterborne diseases, of the 1,920 households interviewed, less than 5% reported being afflicted with
    waterborne diseases at project completion, compared to a baseline of 29 % household reporting waterborne
    diseases (ICR p. 10).


(ii) Institutionalize a decentralized system for agriculture and fisheries service delivery that promotes participation ,
transparency and accountability , rated Modest.

Outputs
  Agricultural Investment plans strengthened in 225 Municipalities across 26 provinces and all DA regions in
    Mindanao.
  Procurement capacity of 225 LGUs strengthened in Mindanao as evidenced by higher levels of
    prior-procurement review (ICR p. 60)
  Improved and Standardized Procurement, Financial Management and Operational Manuals prepared and being
    widely used (ICR p. 60).
  Safeguard facilitation capacity was also strengthened.



Outcomes
  The ICR noted that (p. 58) the project can be credited with establishing the systems, operational procedures
    within the Department of Agriculture to pursue a decentralized system more widely across its commodity
    programs and bureaus nation-wide. Therefore, the preparation and process has been achieved but actual
    achievement of institutionalization undoubtedly will take time and be a graduated process under the follow up
    project, given the diversity of agencies and entrenched “ways of doing business”. The project team subsequently
    stated that the project mainstreamed LGU consultations and inputs in the DA’s planning activities and processes
    via the issuance of the updated annual DA planning and budgeting guidelines as well as adoption of a
    Harmonized Operations Manual (HOM), covering NG-LGU roles and responsibilities to serve as the DA’s guide in
    the operations. However, it is still unclear if the intended decentralization for service delivery in agriculture sector
    objective could be fully institutionalized via the project support.
  Beneficiaries reported an 87% level of satisfaction with LGU service delivery in the program areas at project
    completion (by 80% in non-program areas): a substantial increase over the baseline of 37%. LGUs in project
    areas were assessed as having improved their service delivery by 48% more than their counterparts in the
    sampled non-project areas (ICR p. 6).
  100% of LGUs rated their ability to better plan and implement investment programs (control systems, planning, &
    supervision) as satisfactory or better, due to the project (the target of at least 70 % of LGUs was exceeded) (ICR
    p. 8 and 9).
  The indicator "Provincial and municipal LGUs adopted resource generation, allocation, utilization and
    accountability measures at the end of the project" was dropped in 2009 at the request of Government.

GEF Objective was not rated. However, GEF objective related indicators were not achieved, i.e. increase in fish
population was less than the target, decrease in siltation and sedimentation indicator was dropped and the indicator
increase in live coral and sea grass was not achieved as there was indeed decrease of live coral and sea grass at
sample sites. In terms of public awareness and community participation in better land management practices and
coastal marine biodiversity conservation, the increase was not substantial over the baseline (17 % increase of those
who reported awareness in land mangement practices against a 20 % increase target) (ICR p. 11).

Progress towards the third -phase APL:The ICR did not report on achievement towards third phase, as instead of a
third phase APL, a nationwide Philippine Rural Development Project, supported by a US$501.25 million Bank loan
and US$ 7 million GEF Grant, was approved August 29, 2014 and its design built on this project.


5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency, rated Substantial.

Ex-Ante Economic Analysis :

The project conducted an ex-ante economic and financial analysis of Farm to Market Roads (FMR), Communal
Irrigation Subprojects and Improvement of Water Supply Systems sub-project investments. The methodology and
assumptions used for the analysis is assessed to be quite sound.

FMR Investments: The approach (consumer surplus) made use of traffic counts and the benefits primarily included
the savings in Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) and savings in travel time for rural commuters in view of their ability to
take motorized transport once the roads are rehabilitated. It was assumed that rehabilitation of rural roads under the
project would bring the typical project gravel road to a good condition. Estimated costs of PhP1.8 million/km and
PhP1.3million/km for rural road construction and rehabilitation were used, respectively and a maintenance cost per
year equivalent of PhP50,000/km was also included. A 1.5% annual growth rate in both population and traffic was
assumed. Based on the analysis of Department of Public Works and Highways on per kilometer cost associated with
operating each type of motorized and non-motorized vehicle traveling on rural roads as well as Mindanao Rural
Development Project 1 (MRDP) Impact Evaluation, Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) savings per kilometer cost data
were calculated. Value of Time (VOT) Savings were based on the household survey conducted for the evaluation of
the rural roads for MRDP1 ICR, which showed an average savings of 0.26 hour of travel time among the beneficiaries
as compared to the baseline. The analysis assumed an average daily wage rate of PhP120 per day in computing the
value of the time saved. In order to convert financial cost to economic costs, a standard conversion factor of 0.80 was
applied to investment, O& M and VOC costs, and a CF of 0.6 was applied to value the time savings. Based on these
assumptions and parameters, the ERR for FMRs for traffic roads (used daily) was estimated at 20% and for
development roads (used seasonally) was estimated at 33.5% for a duration of 20 years.

Communal Irrigation Subprojects : A total of 8,300 hectares were estimated to benefit that would enable farmers to
shift from unimproved irrigation to improved irrigation hence increasing crop yields and cropping intensity (100 %
cropping intensity in dry season whereas without project is 50 % ) as compared to the present farming situation. The
farm income analysis has been undertaken to assess the profitability for the households involved in the project. Based
on the above, a representative farm size of 1.6 hectares, incremental farm income was estimated at PhP38,222 once
the irrigation construction and improvement works are completed. This was based on the farm income analysis which
depicts the average farm beneficiary’s on-farm income improving substantially from PhP40,75 8 per year under the
“without project” scenario to PhP78,980 per year under the “with project” scenario. Based on the above assumptions,
the ERR for the communal irrigation subcomponent was estimated at 26.53% using a 25 years for investment
duration.
Improvement of Water Supply Systems : The economic analysis for this subcomponent considered only the benefits
derived from savings in time for fetching potable water as these could be used for income generating activities by the
beneficiary households. The savings in time generated from the household survey was 36 minutes 81 per day per
household. Since water fetching is usually done by women and children, the assumed wage rate was PhP120/day
and only half of the time savings converted into economic price by using 0.6. EIRR was assessed assuming a project
life-span of 15 years and the non-quantified benefits such as increases in beneficiary household productivity as a
result of the availability of water as an input for household activities and avoidance of waterborne diseases are
significant but not included in the analysis. Based on the above, the estimated ERR for this type of investment was
46.5 percent.

The overall project ERR and NPV aggregated the incremental benefits and costs from infrastructure and Community
Fund for Agriculture Development components, and included (a) total costs for project management, (b) 50% of total
costs for institutional strengthening and capacity building components; the NRM component was not included in the
analysis as the Cost- Benefit Analysis. The overall project ERR was estimated at about 21.51% with NPV at PhP 1.05
billion.

Ex-Post Economic Analysis :
The ex-post economic and financial analysis used the same methodologies and approaches that have been used in
the ex-ante analysis. However, it included some other benefits that have not been addressed previously, as well as
actual costs and data that became available upon completion of the project implementation.

Farm-to-Market Roads (FMRs): The ex-post analysis was based on modeling of 14 FMR subprojects implemented in
the various project areas. Financial and economic models have been developed for these sub-projects. These models
were based on the following assumptions that differed from the ex-ante analysis: (i) roughly 91% of FMR subprojects
were targeted on rehabilitation of existing roads, while the remaining 9% of subprojects was focused on construction
of the new roads; (ii) Actual investment costs of rural road rehabilitation on average was PhP2.3 million/km and actual
investment cost of rural road construction was on average at around PhP2.6 million/km, and a routine maintenance
cost per year equivalent of PhP41,904/km on average was also applied; (iii) investment period was 10-year life-span;
(iv) Value of Time (VOT) Savings, used the impact assessment survey results for the project that showed time
savings from 20 to 140 minutes of travel time among the beneficiaries as compared to the baseline and an average
wage rate is PhP14.16 per hour was used. Based on these, the ERR for FMR subprojects is estimated in the range of
13.30% to 58.74% depending on the subprojects with an average at 32.33%, which is above opportunity cost of
capital set at 15%. Results of the sensitivity analysis found that a 10% reduction in benefits would bring down the ERR
to the considerably lower level (10%) for one subproject out of all the analyzed FMR subprojects.

Communal Irrigation Subprojects (CIS): Representative crop budgets based on the actual data of
two CIS subprojects were prepared, the following assumptions were different than the ex-post analysis: (i) The
estimated investment costs for rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and construction of a new system were PhP
52,000 and PhP 122,000 per hectare, respectively and recurrent cost per annum is estimated at PhP12,000 per
hectare per year; (ii) project lifespan 20 years; (iii) incremental farm income is estimated at PhP66,500 on average
based on the farm income analysis. The ERR for the communal irrigation subprojects is estimated in the range of
20.7% to 21.8% and sensitivity to a 20% reduction in benefits revealed that these CIS subprojects would still yield an
acceptable ERR (at around 16%-17%).

Improvement of Water Supply Systems : The analysis of this type of investments was based on the analysis of six
different water supply subprojects and the following assumptions differed from the ex-ante analysis: (i) the savings in
time according to the subprojects data was from 18 to 25 minutes per day per household and the assumed wage was
in the range of PhP200 to PhP250 per day; (ii) the benefits of avoidance of waterborne diseases were also estimated,
including the savings of working time due to morbidity reduction, reduced economic loss due to decreased premature
death and savings in medical expenses. The analysis resulted in an economic rate of return in the range of 18.7% to
35.8% with an average at 25.2%, which is well above the discounting rate of 15% (see Table 3). Sensitivity analysis
showed that the economic viability of subprojects are still high even with a 20% decline in benefits.

Community Fund for Agricultural Development (CFAD) Subprojects: As mentioned earlier, incomes of CFAD direct
beneficiaries increased by around 35% with the main source of such incomes coming from i) an increase in
production (42%), ii) an increase in volume of products marketed (24%), iii) an increase in the price of products sold
(31%), and iv) training and adoption of technology. The financial analysis of several CFAD subprojects showed that
the financial investment return (IRR) of such subprojects is quite high and it is in the range of 29.8% to as high as
72.7%.

Overall economic analysis of the project : Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 28.3%
(compared to ex-ante ERR at 21.5%). The analysis shows that the project’s economic efficiency is substantial.

Operational Efficiency :

There were delays in implementation. The original closing date of December 31, 2012 was extended for two years
due to significant delays during the initial project start up on the original loan, as well as a delay in approving the GEF
project. Soon after loan approval, the Borrower requested dropping of the “Performance Grant” incentive scheme.
This decision to uphold the agreement regarding the NG-LGU cost sharing arrangement in the project led to LGUs,
wait until the policy environment was clear. The implemenation picked up after the mid-term review.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                     Point Value                  Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                21.5%                           100%
    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      28.3%                                    100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      The project presented moderate shortcomings in achieving its objectives, its relevance and efficiency.
Relevance of objectives was rated substantial and relevance of design rated modest: the second part of the objective
on institutionalization of decentralization did not reflect the pilot nature of the project, and the complex project design
with GEF/NRM component investments did not link well with the other sub-project investments of the project.
Achievement of the first objective was rated substantial, but the second objective was rated modest due to lack of
evidence on achievements. Efficiency was rated substantial on balance due to strong economic efficiency results
despite the implementation delays.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Institutional and political risks are assessed as moderate. Institutional reforms supporting decentralized service
delivery are supported by the existence of (i) Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act, Local Government Code
and budget reforms to support decentralized planning and accountability, however these need to be consistently
applied and followed ; (ii) follow on nationwide PRDP project that is already under implementation, which is likely to
further the initialized reforms. Also the ICR (p. 46) noted that while experience with the process of institutional reform,
especially in the DA, has at times experienced “roll-back’, notably to periods of “top-down” and “production oriented
targeting”, the current administration is expected to stay in office until 2016 and this is likely to help consolidate the
reforms. A further reinforcing factor has been the approval of the DA’s Rationalization Plan in 2013, which provides
for a number of organizational and administrative reforms that should, if implemented well, collectively strengthen the
decentralized and devolved way of doing business in the DA.

The risk to sustaining the GEO outcomes is high, given the failure to achieve the GEO indicators and the fact that the
activities financed under the NRM and GEF component are not part of the core mandate of the DA.

The ICR (p. 33) noted that a prior AusAid Technical assistance grant had developed governance criteria for O& M of
infrastructure investments and this was also factored into the project, particularly in the preparation of Operational
Manual. Nevertheless, the ICR did not report specifically on the adequacy of the O&M arrangements, therefore the
sustainability of the sub-project investments supported by the project is not very clear.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Project design was informed by the first phase of the APL, which had been implemented from 2000-2004 and
closed with a satisfactory rating. Key lessons were taken into account in the design of the project were: (i) The
participatory approach was important for political and social ownership, (ii) the “learning-through-doing” approach
had proven to be effective, (iii) capacity building needed to be action-oriented, incentive-based and linked with
local investment requirements, (iv) strengthening of grass-roots organizations was essential for meaningful
development, (v) financial incentives would be needed if LGU cost sharing of investments was to be achieved.
Likewise, the design of the NRM component which was supported by a GEF grant, built on the lessons learned
from the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Conservation project, which was implemented as part of the first phase
APL (However it is not clear from the ICR and the PAD what these lessons were).

The project had the same four components as the first phase project. As experienced with other Bank assisted
projects in the Philippines, procurement capacity of LGUs was quite weak requiring considerable inputs from the
Bank team during the start-up years. The technical assistance provided by AusAid in February 2012, which had
been discussed during the design of the project, proved to be a valuable factor in facilitating implementation. The
weaknesses in design as mentioned in Section 3b, were (i) the weak linkage of GEF/NRM Component to the
achievement of the PDO, (ii) the independent implementation interventions from the sub-project investments
under other components, and (iii) the overly ambitious GEO. The implementation arrangement was also
challenging as the lead role was assigned to the Department of Agriculture, despite the fact that NRM is the core
mandate of Department of Natural Resources Management, thus leading to weak ownership of DA for the
component.

Another important issue was that although the APL lending instrument did correctly recognize that the institutional
reforms being pursued were a long-term objective (15 years) that required sustained Government and Bank
commitment, the articulation of the second part of the PDO, “institutionalization of decentralization”, did not reflect
the project's pilot role in testing this approach.

At appraisal the project was identified as having Moderate Risk. The appraisal underestimated the political risks
for the project, particularly on the LGU cost-sharing aspect, as well as decentralization reforms. At appraisal cost
sharing was envisioned to be on basis of 80% (loan) and 20% (LGU). Subsequently, the Borrower determined that
the cost sharing should be 50:50 and introduced a system of “Performance Grants” to provide LGUs an incentive
to participate in the project. Within months of Loan effectiveness, the policy on cost sharing was changed and the
Borrower requested a restructuring to remove “Performance Grants”. This left the project without adequate
incentive for LGU participation. Also underestimated was the commitment of the DA to implement the
decentralization of its service delivery. At project appraisal there had only been limited implementation of the
AFMA Act (1997) and the LGC (1991), which embodied principles of decentralization. The risks were recognized
at appraisal, but DA management’s reluctance to actively pursue the reforms was not fully considered. An
important lesson is that agreement on reforms by management does not automatically translate into
implementation unless such reforms are actively promoted by the Oversight Agencies and fully accepted by the
staff of the implementing units within the Agency. In the case of both the decentralization of services and the
“performance-based grant scheme”, this level of support was lacking.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Moderately Satisfactory
The project team was primarily based in the Philippine Country Office, which helped to maintain close working
relationship between the Bank team and the Project Support Office (PSO). This reportedly contributed to the
proactive approach of the PSO throughout implementation in seeking solutions and in facilitating the evolution of
the project to a nation-wide rural development program. Implementation Reviews were done twice yearly
throughout the project and correctly identified and documented the implementation issues in a timely manner.
Aide Memoires shared with Government were comprehensive and direct in highlighting concerns and issues
needing follow up via Management Action Matrices defining specific areas needing action. The input by the Bank
at mid-term and the recommendations emanating from that review were critical in reshaping the project and
building ownership in the DA. The geo-tagging innovation developed by the Bank under the project reportedly
strengthened the transparency of interventions and has enabled monitoring of investments at levels not previously
possible. There were also various studies that helped to report on the achievement of the outcomes.

Nevertheless, there were a number of shortcomings as well: (i) The 18 month delay in project start-up certainly
contributed to a preoccupation with “catching-up” and tended to focus Bank attention more on “disbursements and
achievement of annual physical targets than on reporting of progress towards achievement of outcomes.
Therefore, ISRs and Aide Memoirs were lacking in that regard. (ii) Stronger institutional/ management oversight of
Component 4 should have identified the overly ambitious outcome expectations. In retrospect, it would seem the
NRM-GEF component design should have been restructured to be more narrowly focused, with perhaps better
outcomes. (iii) Similarly, the institutionalization of decentralization part of the PDO could have been revised to
capture the capability of design in achieving this objective or adequate outcome indicators would have been
developed to measure such achievements.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Prior to mid-term of the project, there was little support by the government for internalizing the decentralization
reforms.The Performance Grant scheme in the project that was included as an incentive for LGU revenue
generation was canceled within months of loan approval at government's request. LGU cost sharing levels
remained an unresolved issue for the first two years of the project. The ICR noted that (p. 49) a clear policy on this
issue was still not in place at project completion. Following the change in Administration in 2010, Borrower
support for the project increased as the benefits of the devolved planning and investment became apparent and
there was strong support from the Borrower for the two-year extension of the Loan closing to compensate for the
delays in project start-up, which was necessary for completing the planned activities. The Borrower oversight
agencies are also to be credited for supporting the sustainability and further institutionalization of reforms initiated
the project through the approval of the follow-on Rural Development Project.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Implementation had two distinct phases corresponding From project effectiveness in 2009 until the change in
Administration in July 2010 , implementation of the project was slow primarily due to uncertainties on LG cost
sharing. Department of Agriculture (DA) management during this period was insufficiently proactive in trying to
resolve the issue as well as pursue the decentralization reforms that were at the core of the project design.
Nevertheless, the DA management developed a Community Funding Arrangement (CFA), which eventually
moved implementation, but it was not until after the change in Administration when the required budget was
allocated by the incoming leadership of the DA. Under that new leadership, a strong commitment was made to the
project to turn the project implementation around. After the CFA was funded, staff constraints in Regional Project
Support Offices were addressed, authority of Regional Field Office was strengthened, and implementation in
partnership with LGUs was pursued, and the project design fed into the nation-wide rural development program. In
addition, throughout implementation, the Project Support Office (PSO) was proactive in organizing and conducting
training for Regional Field Offices and Local Government Unit staff in planning, geo-tagging, feasibility study
preparation and analysis, FM, and procurement. Transparency and good governance and procurement was
followed throughout implementation. The management of the project’s PSO participated actively in the design and
preparation of the follow-on PRDP project, thereby achieving a seamless transition from the project to the national
program.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E system was integrally linked with DA’s overall management information system and this linkage was
strengthened as the project progressed. The system included a comprehensive amount of studies to measure project
achievements. The Baseline and Project Completion data collection methods were comprehensive and sound and
included the following: Household Surveys, Focus Group Discussions, Key informant interviews, and LGU Survey
questionnaires. Secondary data was collected on (i) physical outputs and expenditures (ii) institutional processes and
strategies adopted by Department of Agriculture Regional Offices, LGUs, and beneficiaries, governance reforms, (iii)
profiles of community organizations established and, (iv) listing of LGUs that participated in each component of the
project. For both the baseline and Project Completion evaluation, Household Surveys were the primary source of
data. (Half of the respondents were drawn from program areas, with the other half comprising a control group from
nonprogram areas. Using the Fisher (1989) and Kish (1975) formulas for determining sample size, a total of 960
households were estimated for each group, providing a 97% confidence level. Respondents were randomly selected
beneficiaries of the three components based on unequal-multi-stage cluster sampling. In the non-program areas,
households were randomly selected based on barangay listings. The selection of control municipalities was based on
the similarities of their characteristics with the target municipalities in terms of poverty incidence, absence of
foreign-assisted projects, population of women and IPs, as well as distance from each other).

However, there was only one PDO indicator measuring the achievement of the PDO. No indicator was designed to
measure the second objective- institutionalize a decentralized system for agriculture and fisheries service delivery that
promotes participation and accountability-, and two intermediate outcome indicators were used to report on the
progress ("target beneficiaries report significant improvements in LGU service delivery", and "LGUs rate their ability to
better plan and implement investment"), which were not relevant to measure the PDO.

b. M&E Implementation:
  The Project Support Office (PSO) was responsible for M&E in collaboration with Regional Project Coordination
Offices (RPCOs). They routinely collected information and Progress Reports were submitted monthly to
DA-Management through the PSO. The ICR reported that (p. 33), due to 18 month delay in start-up, focus was on
achievement of physical disbursement targets rather than monitoring outcomes. The baseline was not established
until 2010, two years into implementation.However, in this case, since the project start-up was delayed by 18 months,
the delay in establishing the baseline did not have a negative effect. No outcome indicator was designed during
implementation to measure the second objective. There were also weaknesses in the measurement of the GEF-NRM
indicators that made an assessment of outcomes difficult, with different methodologies being used at different times.
An important innovation which is now required for all investments by the DA, is the use of geo-tagging. This
cost-effective and simple-to-use tool provided transparency and contributed to good governance.


c. M&E Utilization:
  The M&E data was used to report on project implementation progress and partially to report on outcomes.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
In terms of Environmental and Social Safeguards, triggered policies were: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01),
Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10).
Environmental and Social Assessments of Mindanao’s Indigenous Peoples were conducted to develop Frameworks
and Guidelines for the project.

During the initial years of implementation, there were difficulties as the design did not provide funding for social and
environmental assessments. This together with limited capacity in the LGUs made it difficult in the early years to
produce good quality Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs), land acquisition documentation etc.
During the first two years of implementation, safeguard compliance was also not pre-requisite for subproject approval
and a number of infrastructure subprojects were approved with incomplete safeguards documents. The PSO was also
focusing more on the adequacy of documentation rather than providing qualitative assistance, such that ESMPs
contained only generic measures and many were inconsistent with the subproject's Feasibility Study and the Detailed
Engineering Design. This shortcoming was acted upon, this was addressed and resulted in a Social and
Environmental Safeguards unit being created.

All Rural Infrastructure (RI), Natural Resource Management (NRM) and large scale Community Fund for Agriculture
Development (CFAD) subprojects underwent internal safeguard reviews by either the Regional Project Coordinating
Office (RPCO), or Project Support Office (PSO). 20 largest RI sub-projects were pre-reviewed for safeguards
compliance by the Bank. The RPCOs and PSO inspected 90% of the RI subprojects, 47% of NRM subprojects and
7% CFAD subprojects. Bank Implementation Support Reviews also inspected 30 RI, 5 NRM and 20 CFAD
subprojects. To enhance participation by Indigineous People and women, a 30% target allocation was set for their
engagement in preparing Barangay Development Plans. Approximately 24% CFAD beneficiaries were members of
the indigenous communities of whom 45% were women. Overall women accounted for 47% of CFAD beneficiaries.

However, the ICR did not report on the results of the safeguard reviews and mitigation measures.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
In terms of financial management of the project, financial covenants included the submission of the quarterly Interim
Financial Reports (IFR) and annual audited project financial statements. All IFRs were found to be acceptable to the
Bank. Of the six audited project financial statements, three were received by the due dates with unqualified audit
opinions while the latest three reports were received within 2 months of the due date and with qualified audit opinions.
The main reasons for qualification were, (i) non-recognition of foreign exchange loss in the foreign currency
denominated cash at year-end and failure to conduct actual physical count of property, plant and equipment and (ii)
unrecorded deposits and withdrawals from a current account; un-reconciled difference in accounting records and
inventory reports of Property, Plant and Equipment; and nonperformance of physical count for its reported current
year-end balance. All audit issues were subsequently addressed adequately. Throughout the project, financial
management was mostly rated as moderately satisfactory. Financial management of the GEF grant was also rated as
moderately satisfactory throughout the project; all audit reports were unqualified. For both the Bank Loan and the GEF
Grant, internal financial controls were found to be generally sufficient.

Procurement arrangements for the project were based on the lessons from the first phase, including the need to
harmonize with Government procedures as recommended in the Country Procurement Assessment Report. Close
Bank oversight was maintained through a combination of prior reviews, post reviews, site visits, virtual site visits
through geo-tagging (since 2010), which is an innovation to improve efficiency and transparency; and this tool has
been mainstreamed to cover all DA-financed sub-projects and is being increasingly adopted nationally and
internationally. Procurement under the project was rated moderately satisfactory throughout the implementation
period and satisfactory at project completion.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Relevance of objectives was rated
                                                            Satisfactory       substantial and relevance of design
                                                                               rated modest: (i) the second part of the
                                                                               objective on institutionalization of
                                                                               decentralization did not reflect the pilot
                                                                               nature of the project, and (ii) the
                                                                               complex project design with GEF/NRM
                                                                               component investments were not linked
                                                                               with the other sub-project investments
                                                                               of the project. Achievement of the first
                                                                               objective was rated substantial, but the
                                                                               second objective is rated modest due to
                                                                               lack of evidence on achievements.
                                                                               Efficiency is rated substantial on
                                                                               balance due to strong economic
                                                                               efficiency results despite the
                                                                               implementation delays.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR presented a couple of lessons, the key ones (with some reformulation of the language) are as follows:

    Local Government Units , even those in low-income areas, can successfully undertake detailed planning ,
     feasibility studies , procurement, financial management and similar activities , when supported through
     appropriate financial incentives and provided with clear direction and technical assistance . The project
     experience showed that once strengthened and guided, LGUs can quite quickly come up to speed in
     implementing sub-projects and the level of motivation and effectiveness in seeking out other programs and
     resources, even by poor LGUs, should not be underestimated.
    When national and regional strategic objectives are integrated with provincial and local plans to reflect
     stakeholder inputs, better balance between strategic objectives and comparative advantage with locally “felt -
     needs” can be achieved . The project has demonstrated that the CDD approach needs to incorporate and
     overlay of National and Regional strategic objectives to ensure the cost-effectiveness of different programs
     running at the same time. For example development of rural roads at the request of communities need to link
     to main arteries or markets and the requests for support for enterprises or crops need to be particularly suited
     to the local conditions and needs. The design of the project was refined at mid-term to reflect this learning and
     the design of the follow on PRDP has further expanded on the experience.

    Natural resource Management (NRM) is a complex undertaking where incentives , livelihoods, cultural, social
     and political aspects need to be addressed , along with technical considerations and these take significant
     periods of sustained effort and time ; therefore free-standing NRM projects with ambitious objectives are
     likely to fail. The project experience showed that NRM-GEF goals, particularly in regard to “marine protected
     areas” adjacent to populated coastal areas are not possible to achieve without greater attention to alternative
     and sustainable income generating activities. Secondly, rather than implement NRM-GEF subprojects as “free-
     standing” activities, they could have been more effective if integrated as part of other project components that
     included sub-project investments. Thirdly, the limited loan funding allocated to the NRM-GEF activities,
     coupled with the wide-spread selection of NRM sites in 24 LGUs, overly diluted the ability to have a meaningful
     impact with the available resources.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was in general well written, with comprehensive narration of implementation progress and challenges. There
were also the following shortcomings: (i) The ICR did not adequately report on the achievement of the second
objective, what was actually achieved in terms of institutionalization of decentralization efforts and what was left to be
achieved; (ii) The ICR did not identify the limitation of the outcome indicators in measuring the second objective; (iii)
Safeguard review outcomes and related safeguard mitigation measures were not reported.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
