Document of
The World Bank                  FL
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3334-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
NORTH CHINA PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
May 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
$1.00    =  Y 1.7 (October 1981)
Y 1.00   =  $0.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kolometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters      =  810 acre-feet
1 ton                       =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
=  2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ABC - Agricultural Bank of China
CAAS - Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
MOA - Ministry of Agriculture
PMO - Project Management Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
NORTH CHINA PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:  Provinces of Shandong, Anhui and Henan,
Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:          SDR 54 million ($60 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Relending:       The Borrower will pass the proceeds of the credit on to the
provinces of Shandong, Anhui and Henan on the same terms as
the IDA credit.
Project
Description:  The project would provide drainage and irrigation facilities
for about 200,000 ha in nine counties, located in the three
provinces of Shandong, Anhui, and Henan in the North China
Plain. It is designed to overcome the main agricultural
constraints of soil salinity, waterlogging, and surface
flooding. The project includes construction and improvement
of main, lateral, sublateral and on-farm drains and irri-
gation ditches; construction of and equipment for pumping
stations and tubewells; additions to existing rural electri-
fication systems; construction and improvement of rural
roads; provision of agrochemicals and agricultural machinery
and equipment; establishment of orchards and wood lots;
strengthening of research and extension services in the
project areas; comprehensive soil and water studies; and a
North China Plain Agricultural Study. The project would
directly benefit some 280,000 farm families. This will be
the first IDA assisted agricultural project in China. It
entails no major technical risks but it would be implemented
at a time of change in rural institutions and farmers'
incentives. However, the basic strength of the county
governments should protect the project from significant
administrative problems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimates ($ million):
% of
foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   exchange
Civil works                          61.7      3.5       65.2         5
Tubewells                             18.7     7.5       26.2       29
Rural electrification & roads          6.1     2.8         8.9      31
Agricultural development              8.5    20.6        29.1       71
Technical assistance                  0.2      1.5         1.7      88
Engineering and management             4.2     0.5         4.7      11
Base cost                       99.4    36.4       135.8       27
Physical contingencies                11.0     4.4       15.4        -
Price contingencies                   17.9     8.4       26.3        -
Total                          128.3    49.2       177.5       28
Financing Plan ($ million):
Total
IDA                                  60.0
Provincial Government                39.0
Counties and communes                45.8
Production teams                     32.7
177.5
Estimated Disbursement ($ million):
IDA FY:               1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Annual                  4        10        16        18        12
Cumulative              4        14        30        48        60
Rate of Return: 30%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3815-CHA, dated May 26, 1982



REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE NORTH CHINA PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance the North China
Plain Agriculture Project. The credit, for SDR 54 million ($60 million equi-
valent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China's economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The
state economy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of econo-
mic decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance
on markets or prices. In the commune economy, land and most capital are
owned and used collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which
generally correspond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger
villages). Each team is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune:
these higher level units organize land improvement projects, run industrial
and other enterprises, and deliver education and health services.
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped
by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation had already
been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and skilled
manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty reduction has
been aggravated by reliance since 1960 entirely on domestic resources and
technological improvements.
6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional



- 2 -
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
so-called Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views
often predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the
expense of economic efficiency.
8.        Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
40%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 34% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas,
9.        Over the whole period 1949-79 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita
GNP appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and
(because of a spurt in the last three years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-80. Even the
former rate is significantly above the average for other low-income develop-
ing countries (1.6% in 1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the
average for middle-income developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high
enough to pull China out of the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.       China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also



- 3 -
through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth
rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.2% in
1980). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China's economy is inefficiency, both
in converting inputs into outputs and in matching supply with demand. This
is partly the result of technological backwardness, caused by two decades of
international isolation. But it also reflects the virtual absence of medium-
term planning since 1958, the lack of economic criteria in investment
analysis, and serious weaknesses in the economic system - in particular,
inadequate contact between producers and users, insufficient use of markets
and price incentives, inadequate linkage between effort and rewards, and an
overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concern-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use. The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
13.       These considerations have prompted a set of reforms and attempts
at structural adjustment, which together are likely to dominate Chinese
economic development through the 1980s. The reforms are based on three
general principles: (a) devolution of significant discretionary authority
to the operating-level units; (b) reliance on material incentives to
supplement planning and administrative directives in guiding the actions of
these units; and (c) an expanded role for the market mechanism in resource
allocation. But there is as yet no detailed and comprehensive blueprint for
economic reforms, nor an internally consistent vision of the post-reform
economy. Structural imbalances in the economy have proved more intractable
than expected, and the adjustment process is now projected to last until the
late 1980s.
14.       Reform.  In the commune sector, the role of the production team
has been enhanced vis-a-vis higher level units. "Production responsibility
systems" have been widely implemented, with tasks now contracted out to
smaller groups within production teams, and even to individual households,
thus strengthening the linkages between individual effort and reward. These
working groups are assigned output or job quotas; they are rewarded for
surpassing them but are at least partially responsible for any shortfall.



- 4 -
Rural marketing arrangements are being diversified, and emphasis is being
placed on exploitation of local comparative advantage in cropping patterns and
on indirect planning through procurement price adjustments.
15.       Reform in the state-owned industrial sector appears to be less far
reaching than that in the rural collective sector,  Managers of the larger
enterprises and higher level economic decision makers have shifted their
focus to a considerable extent from physical output and gross output value
to profits and other indicators of efficiency, and the expanded role of the
market has made industrial producers more sales oriented than in the past.
Larger enterprises that meet plan targets are allowed to retain around 10%
of their profits to pay bonuses, improve worker amenities, and modernize and
expand their capacity. They also have more control over what they produce.
16.       The scope for collective and individual trades in urban areas has
now been enlarged: employment in urban collective enterprises of all kinds
grew at 11%' in 1979 and 7% in 1980 (compared to 3-4% in the state sector).
In 1980, the number of urban residents in individual occupations more than
doubled.
17.       To supplement and stimulate the state's unified distribution
system, the number and variety of commercial channels has been increased,
and joint ventures that cut across traditional administrative boundaries
are now encouraged. Linked with the diversification of commerce has been
some increase in the freedom of producers and traders to alter product
prices. Some official prices have been changed, including upward revisions in
prices of important raw materials like coal. Price changes are virtually
always based on demand-supply considerations, but for important basic consumer
goods from the agricultural sector (or those with a large agricultural raw
material component), concerns about urban living standards limit upward price
revision to accommodate increased production costs or changed market
conditions. On the other hand, the increased production of consumer durables
is slowly resulting in lower prices for consumers.
18.       Innovative measures have been introduced in banking and investment
financing. Where feasible, capital construction projects are being financed
by loans rather than budgetary grants: in 1981, one third of all budgetary
capital construction expenditures were to be in the form of loans, at 3%
interest, Significant attempts have been made to rationalize the structure of
interest rates since 1979; perhaps most important, substantial increases in
loan rates have been instituted.
19.       China's reform of its foreign trade system has ended the monopoly
of the Ministry of Foreign Trade (now known as the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade), so that ministries and even individual
enterprises may now negotiate foreign contracts directly and also retain some
of the foreign exchange their exports earn, Direct foreign investment (joint
ventures), arrangements for compensation trade, and processing and assembly
contracts are now being encouraged, and foreign exchange loans are available
within China for larger enterprises with export prospects.



- 5 -
20.       Adjustment.  It is now felt in China that too low a priority was
given in the past to raising living standards, and in particular that both
the overall investment rate and the share of heavy industry in production
and investment have been too high. The Government has accordingly taken
steps to raise the share of consumption in aggregate demand and the share of
consumer goods in aggregate production.  It is reducing the share of
investment in budget expenditures, and spending more on housing, education,
health, agriculture and light industry. Both urban workers' incomes and
agricultural procurement prices have been increased (the latter by an
average of 36% between 1977 and 1980). Agriculture and light industry are
being given priority in the allocation of materials, fuel and power, credit
and foreign exchange.
21.       In important respects, the Government has achieved its aims.  It
has raised the share of consumption in national income from 64% in 1978 to
70% in 1981. The structure of production has changed drastically away
from producer goods toward manufactured consumer goods: the proportion of
light industry (primarily consumer goods) in the gross value of industrial
output rose from 43% in 1979 to an estimated 51% in 1981. Production of
consumer durables soared in the past three years, while the output of most
types of machinery and equipment declined substantially. Agricultural
output rose by 28% in real terms from 1977 to 1981, though grain output
declined by over 4% in 1980 and has not yet recovered to its unusually good
1979 level. Commerce and related services have burgeoned, absorbing large
numbers of new entrants into the labor force (para. 16).
22.       Macroeconomic Trends.  In the context of these attempts at reform
and massive structural change, economic growth has slowed somewhat. Bad
weather was a major factor limiting the growth of gross agricultural output
value in 1980, while industrial growth has been constrained by shortages of
energy, particularly electric power. China's output of coal and crude oil
has stagnated since 1979, that of natural gas since 1980. Electricity
generation has grown at a much slower rate since 1978 than previously.
Industrial growth has slowed after a burst of economic recovery in 1977/78.
Gross value of agricultural output grew by nearly 6% in 1981, considerably
higher than the growth rate in 1980, but substantially lower than the nearly
9% per year in both 1978 and 1979. Gross industrial output grew by 4%, also
substantially less than the 9% a year in 1979 and 1980. National income
in real terms is estimated to have grown by about 3% in 1981, compared to
somewhat over 6% a year in the previous two years, and is projected to grow
at 4% in 1982.
23.       Foreign trade has expanded significantly.  In real terms, merchan-
dise exports rose by almost 26% between 1978 and 1979, and a further 18% in
1980, but much lower growth rates are projected for the coming few years.
Merchandise imports (again in real terms) also rose by almost 26% between
1978 and 1979, but the rate of increase dropped to just less than 10% in
1980. Merchandise imports are projected to continue growing at less than
5% p.a. in real terms in the first half of the 1980s.



- 6 -
24.       To some extent the Governmenc in 1979 miscalculated the excess
demand that would be created by its policies to increase personal income and
consumption, combined with the inability of central authorities to cut back
on aggregate investment.  The resulting macroeconomic imbalance has in turn
given rise to three significant problems over the past three years: (a)
where prices have been allowed to reflect market conditions or have been
used to raise incomes, unprecedented inflation - the overall index of retail
prices rose by 5.8% in 1979, 6% in 1980, though it has apparently dropped to
an estimated 2% in 1981; (b) where producer prices have been raised but the
effects have not been fully passed on to consumers, burgeoning subsidies -
their total cost to the Government has jumped from Y 7.8 billion in 1978 to
over Y 32 billion in 1981; and (c) large state budget deficits of Y 17.1
billion in 1979 and Y 12.6 billion in 1980, followed by a smaller deficit of
Y 2.7 billion in 1981 and a planned deficit of Y 3 billion for 1982.
25.       Major shifts have taken place in the quantitative structure of
China's state budget. The relative importance of industrial profits has
declined (from 44.7% of total revenue in 1979 to 32.8% in 1981), while that of
taxes has increased (from 48.7% of the total in 1979 to 57.5% in 1981). The
increasing importance of taxes as a source of budgetary receipts is reflected
in recent campaigns to crack down on tax evasion and other types of financial
infractions. The decrease in enterprise profits turned over to the state can
be attributed primarily to substantial increases in the cost of important
industrial raw materials and stagnation or reduction in official prices of
most manufactured goods, secondarily to reforms that allow enterprises to keep
part of the profits they earn. Among expenditure categories, capital
construction has dropped sharply since 1980 (declining from Y 51.5 billion in
1979 to Y 33.1 billion in 1981), as has spending on circulating capital and
bank credit funds, and to a lesser extent defense. Appropriations for
education, culture, public health, and science and administrative costs have
risen steadily.
26.       An innovation in Chinese budgetary policy, the issuance of Treasury
Bonds, was instituted in 1981 to dampen the inflationary effects of the large
budget deficit of the previous year. State enterprises, organizations, and
local governments were given targets for the amounts of bonds they were
supposed to purchase, apparently based on the size of their excess money
balances. Treasury Bonds worth a total of Y 4.9 billion were sold in this
way in 1981, mostly to local governments. The bonds pay 4% interest per
year, with payment of interest and principal beginning only in the sixth
year after issuance. In 1982 the central government hopes to sell another
Y 4 billion worth of Treasury Bonds, but this year half of them are expected
to be bought by individuals. Bonds issued to individuals will pay 8% annual
interest, while those sold to organizations still pay only 4%.
Development Issues and Prospects
27.       Although changes in the system of economic management as well as in
the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult period of



transition lies ahead. After spending three decades pursuing a particular set
of goals with particular instruments, the country will inevitably find it hard
to switch to a path that is not only new for China, but also one that has been
successfully followed by few other countries. Reform of the economic system
will be especially difficult. The measures described above, though diverse in
form, have a unity of purpose, namely to make the economy more efficient in
the sense of both cutting costs and matching supply more closely with demand.
But the attempt to reform parts of the economic system without a coherent
overall program has also had some adverse consequences. The momentum of
reform is being sustained in agriculture and in the administration, but it is
now acknowledged in China that economic reform on the scale envisaged will
require careful management and concomitant reform in other areas. Bureau-
cratic reform is under way but will likely be a lengthy and difficult process.
28.       China's efforts to improve people's living standards will, in the
coming decade, be subject to a tight set of interlocking constraints. Some of
these are of long standing; they reflect the country's fundamental resource
constraints, especially the shortage of agricultural land and the difficulty
of increasing yields further. Others are of more recent origin, however, and
largely reflect the price that the country must now pay for more than a
decade of waste and economic mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s. They
include shortages of trained manpower, energy, financial resources for new
investment and foreign exchange.
29.       The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past. Production will continue to be constrained because of
the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and the limited opportunities that
remain for increasing yields. Although substantial gains will probably be
possible in the short and medium term through improved policies and manage-
ment, the foodgrain balance will remain precarious and substantial food
imports will have to be maintained.
30.       In both the rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modern-
ize the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained man-
power. Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and
higher education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the
Cultural Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical
and vocational schools is one quarter of the average for other developing
countries. Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula
are outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.
31.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons and is likely at best to remain
at about 100 million tons a year during the 1980s. Coal output (which
contributes about 70% of total commercial energy) also declined in 1980,
to 620 million tons, and is unlikely to exceed 730 million tons in 1985



- 8 -
and about 900 million tons in 1990, even if high priority is given to this
subsector. Total primary energy production in the 1980s will thus not grow
much faster than about 3% per year, with the growth rate in 1980-85 unlikely
to exceed 2% - less than one quarter of the 195280 growth rate.
32.       The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output.  In particular, the
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamental Ly
influence growth prospects. The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which will
be difficult and slow to implement.
33.       The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the first half
of the 1980s to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second, as well
as to replace energy-inefficient equipment and plants. Competing claims for
investments in other sectors are considerable, especially those for badly
needed urban housing and for relieving transport bottlenecks after two decades
of neglect. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector built upon
outdated technology will also require enormous investment outlays. Thus,
notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve the allocation and use of
its financial resources, a high level of investment will need to be
maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained growth
over the longer term.  However, new investments are presently being caught
between the Government's desire to reduce the saving rate (in order to
accelerate the growth of consumption) and the claims of an enormous existing
investment program. The Government is finding it difficult to decide among
competing claims for financial resources, and has already had to face the
political problems of large budgetary deficits and inflationary pressure.
34.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open econom.y than
in the past is also likely to be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange.
Domestic bottlenecks in the supply of agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of soft-
ware as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
essential to growth. The rate of growth of export earnings, however,
depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree
of success in energy conservation. The former will be affected by the world
environment of slow growth and protectionism. As to the latter, even if
energy conservation is moderately successful (growth in energy use at, say,
three-fourths of the GDP growth rate), oil exports will almost certainLy dis-
appear by the second half of the 1980s. Even if manufactured exports can grow
by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade, declining energy exports
will cause total foreign exchange earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a
year in the first half of the 1980s and 7% a year in the second half,



- 9 -
35.       Faced with these needs and constraints, the Government is consid-
ering expansion of its external borrowing. China's current liquidity position
is strong and in recent years it has been able to attract large loan commit-
ments on market terms.  At the end of 1980, total external debt outstanding
was estimated at only $3.4 billion and debt service payments were under 5% of
export earnings. The Government's current program of adjustment and reform,
if successfully carried out, also augurs well for the country's future credit-
worthiness. But such a program will take time to implement. Meanwhile
China's import needs, as a result of the decades of international isolation
and technological stagnation, are enormous and the prospects for increased
foreign exchange earnings are limited. China's access to concessionary
capital is also limited: apart from what it might obtain from the Bank Group,
concessionary capital is only likely to come from Japan and a few other bila-
teral donors and will likely average only $500-600 million a year during the
1980s. Quantitative projections show that if China is to maintain reasonable
growth and modernization and keep its debt service payments at a manageable
level, then it needs to obtain the necessary foreign capital at an average
interest rate substantially below the market rate. China also has a strong
claim to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries
in the world, with 200 million people below the poverty line.
36.       Thus, for China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s
will be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by
errors made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China's
economic prospects appear favorable. The already low population growth rate
will slowly decline (probably to under 1% p.a. by the year 2000), easing the
pressure on agricultural land. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor force
will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit
will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping-
China's large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently. Continua-
tion of recent manufactured export trends would generate sufficient foreign
exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign capital
and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of
human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies that
increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. W4hether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government-s program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
37.       China's change of representation in the Bank Group took place in
May 1980. At that time, the country had already embarked on a program of
economic adjustment and reform, though its extent and direction were - and
remain partly - undefined. The Government, faced with several interlocking
constraints on development, is still working on a Sixth Five-Year Plan for
1981-85 including a selective program of investments. Moreover, it has



- 10 -
recently begun to reorganize the bureaucracy, reducing the number of agencies
and personnel, with a view to improving efficiency and coordination. It is
against this background of uncertainty and change that the Bank has defined
the objectives of its work in China and developed its initial work program.
38.       In view of the particular circumstances of China, and the policy
and economic transitions now under way, Bank lending to China should aim to
further several broad objectives.  First, the Bank should try to facilitate
China's re-entry into the world community.  The Bank's experience in a wide
range of member countries can do much to mitigate the negative impact of
China's lengthy isolation. Second, the Bank should assist China in removing
the major constraints on development - energy, transport, other infra-
structure, skilled manpower, and modern technology. Perhaps even more
important, it can help the authorities to use these and other inputs more
efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment control, as well
as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the Bank should
assist the Government in its efforts to reduce remaining poverty; in view of
China's success in meeting the basic needs of most of its people, the
priority is increased attention to raising rural earning power in the
poorest regions of the country.
39.       In the initial two years of the Bank/China relationship, consider-
able progress has been made in both economic and sector work and operations.
The Bank has produced an introductory economic report on China's past
development performance, economic system and future prospects. The report -
comprising a main volume, a statistical annex and seven sector annexes - was
distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1981. It has been translated
into Chinese and the Government plans to distribute it widely among officials
in China. Work on an initial operations program has proceeded satisfactorily
and led, also in June 1981, to approval by the Executive Directors of the
University Development Project. Signing of the $100 million IBRD loan and
$100 million IDA credit was delayed until November 1981, when IDA resources
became available; the agreements became effective in February 1982. Disburse-
ments under this project are expected to begin shortly. A summary statement
on the project is contained in Annex II.
Work Program
40.       The Bank is following up on the Economic Report with routine
economic and sector work. In addition, the Government and the Bank have
agreed on a program of collaborative economic research, which will apply
advanced analytical techniques, develop China's capacity for economic
research, and broaden both the Bank's and China's understanding of the
development process.
41.       Work on many projects will have to be preceded by sectoral and
intersectoral studies, some of which are already under way. An industrial
development and credit study includes aspects of the financial system and
assistance in developing improved project evaluation methods. A rural



- 11 -
credit study is reviewing the rural investment and financial systems,
especially the operations of the Agricultural Bank of China.  These studies
would not only identify tuture projects, but may also suggest broader
institutional and policy changes that could improve investment decision-making
in China. A review of the health sector will focus on the rural health care
delivery system and on health manpower development. Other studies, in areas
such as port development, river basin development, and agricultural manpower
planning and research, are expected to be undertaken in connection with the
preparation and implementation ot tuture projects.
42.       The Bank's lending operations in the near term will concentrate on
the Government's priority sectors.  In energy, the Bank's ettorts will help
develop new reserves and to increase the supply ot tuel and power. One
petroleum project at the country's largest and most productive oiltield,
Daqing, would mainly help develop new reserves and introduce enhanced recovery
techniques, while another at Dongpu would comprise both development and
exploration. Other operations are proposed to support hydroelectric power
generation and the development ot underground coal mines. In another key
sector, transportation, operations would begin with the expansion and
modernization ot three ports; the port subsector is expected to play a vital
role in China's ettorts to speed development through the import ot toreign
goods and technology, as well as to increase export earnings.  In the
industrial sector, the Bank is assisting the Government in establishing a
tinancial intermediary, the China Investment Bank, which will contribute to
the expansion and modernization ot light industry on the basis ot systematic
project evaluation. In agriculture, the proposed project would contribute to
increased production by providing irrigation and drainage works tor saline and
waterlogged lands in the North China Plain, and a second project would help
develop uncultivated land in Heilongjiang tor the production ot various
grains. The Bank also proposes to support agricultural education and
research, which together can provide much needed skilled agricultural manpower
and the basis for further increases in yields. Another education project
would support expansion ot the TV university and a pilot program ot basic
colleges.
43.       The Bank plans a signiticant expansion in the volume ot its lending
over the medium term. Based on government requests tor project assistance
over the next tew years, the Bank expects to continue emphasizing the energy
and transport sectors, followed by agriculture, education and industry.
44.       To complement the Bank's ettorts in economic and sector work and
operations, the EDI has organized courses and seminars aimed at improving
national economic management, sectoral planning, and project selection and
implementation. EDI's FY82 China program covers national economic management,
development banking, general project planning, and power and transport
projects.



- 12 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Past Developments
45.        When the People's Republic was founded in 1949, the agricultural
sector was suffering from severe dislocations associated with decades of
warfare and civil disturbance. As a first task in agricultural development,
efforts were made to reconstruct the economic infrastructure and establish a
suitable institutional framework. Despite limited capital and technical
resources, recovery was rapid. Development efforts during the First
Five-Year Plan period (1953-57), which concentrated largely on land
development and irrigation facilities, raised agricultural production to new
record levels. However, production during the next several years was
affected by bad weather and the disruptions of the Great Leap Forward
movement to such an extent that crop output did not recover to 1957/58
levels until about 1964.
46.        Measures taken during the 1960s to revive agricultural production
included: the raising of procurement prices, intensification of research,
and expansion of input supplies to producer goods industries to increase the
production of chemical fertilizer, tractors, irrigation pumps and other
equipment. The research effort resulted in the development of improved
high-yielding varieties, especially rice and wheat. During 1966-76,
achieving self-sufficiency in foodgrain production was the focus of agricul-
tural policies. However, progress was slow because of the effects of the
Cultural Revolution, which disrupted production and scientific research and
training. Although there were substantial increases in the availability of
such modern inputs as farm machinery, irrigation, and chemical fertilizers,
the growth of agricultural production during the period was only 2.9% p.a.,
slightly below the long-term trend.
47.        The new leadership that came to power in 1977 made a number of
policy changes aimed at boosting agricultural production, including
improved producer incentives, greater autonomy to the collectives and state
farms in production and planning decisions, and expansion of private plots.
These changes, coupled with a large increase in the supply of chemical
fertilizer, and favorable weather conditions in 1978--79, resulted in a growth
of more than 8% p.a. in agricultural output over these two years. Cash crop
production (cotton, oilseeds) recovered sharply and growth of animal husbandry
was also rapid. Agricultural ouput in 1980 was checked by poor weather
conditions. However, an increase in cash crop and meat production helped
raise overall agricultural output by 2.7%, so that the average growth over the
three-year period 1978-80 was 6.7% p.a.
Development Plan for the 1980s
48.        The development of agriculture continues to be accorded high
priority by the Government. Although plans for 1982 and subsequent years
have not been finalized, the share of agriculture in the state capital



- 13 -
construction budget is expected to increase from 14% in 1979 to 18% during
1980-82. Funding for agricultural support services, including research and
extension, is to increase from 6.3% to 8% of total plan expenditures during
the same period, while annual credit for agriculture is to increase from
Y 13 billion in 1978 to about Y 26 billion by 1985.
49.       Recent efforts to improve incentives to boost agricultural produc-
tion will continue. The incentives include: (a) encouragement of household
agricultural activities and individual enterprises through expanding the area
of private plots, lifting restrictions on free markets, and widening the range
of commodities for local trade; (b) encouragement of larger allocations to
individuals out of the collective income; and (c) the creation of systems of
subcontracting within state farms and collective agriculture, so that small
groups or individual households gain additional income from production that is
surplus to some agreed norm (but with penalties for failing to reach the
norm).
The Agriculture Sector
50.       Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, provides
sustenance to nearly 1 billion people and is the main source of livelihood for
some 800 million rural workers and their dependents, and accounts for over 30%
of the country's GDP. Farmers are organized into collective units under the
commune system or work on state farms. Some production also comes from
privately controlled household plots.
51.       Agriculture in China is dominated by foodgrain production, which
accounts for some 65% of total agricultural output and 80% of cropland.
Despite the country's vast land area of about 960 million ha, only about 10.4%
or 100 million ha are arable. The ratio of population to ha of arable land is
just under 10. China thus accounts for less than 8% of the world's arable
land but provides food for about 22% of the world's population. This has been
possible because of the generally high standards of crop production. Farming
is intensive, with very high inputs of labor, extensive use of chemical and
organic fertilizers, and considerable development of irrigation and drainage.
52.       The major foodgrains, rice, maize and wheat, accounted for about
45%, 18% and 17% respectively of total foodgrain production during 1977-79.
Soybean, sorghum and millet together accounted for another 7%. Foodgrain
production during the 1970s increased at an average of more than 3% p.a., but
in recent years, gains in food output have not kept pace with the increase in
demand due to growth in population and incomes and increased feedgrain
requirements for livestock. The country imported 10.5 million tons of
foodgrains in 1979 or about 3% of total consumption. Grain agreements with
major supplier countries indicate that grain imports may range from 12-16 mil-
lion tons for the next few years. Among the more important oilseeds in China
are groundnuts, rapeseed, sesame seed, sunflower seed, and linseed. Oilseed
production increased from 3.8 to 7.7 million tons during the 1970-80 period.
Despite this growth, China imported 0.8 million tons of oilseeds in 1979 and
levels of per capita oil availability remain low relative to requirements.



- 14 -
53.       Cash crops include cotton, jute, sugarcane, tea, mulberry (for
sericulture), fruits, vegetables and tobacco. Cotton, the most important,
accounted for 4.9 million ha or 38% of the area sown to cash crops in 1980.
The 1980 crop of 2.7 million tons of lint was a new record. However,
production has been insufficient to meet domestic demand as reflected in the
increasing levels of cotton imports in recent years. Imports in 1979
amounted to 480,000 tons. China is now the world's largest importer of
cotton.
54.       The forest cover in China increased from 8.6% of the total land
area in the early 1950s, to 12.7% at present, or about 120 million ha.
So far 28 million ha have been afforested. Timber output in 1979 totalled
54 million cu m, compared with 5 million cu m in the early 1950s. Annual
fuel-wood utilization amounts to 120 million cu m, roughly two thirds of
which is collected by the people. Wood still serves as an important energy
source and timber products generally are in short supply.
Support Services
55.       Agricultural Research and Extension.  The Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture,
has responsibility for a network of 31 national research institutes, which
focus mainly on applied research, and for technical oversight and coordin-
ation of provincial research programs. Each province also has a local
research network with a provincial academy of agriculture as the lead
institution. Below the provincial level are prefecture- and county-level
institutes, which have programs of research, demonstration and extension.
Other agriculture-related ministries or specialized agencies also sponsor
and coordinate research work.
56.       Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is
responsible for providing credit for agricultural and rural development in
China; it operates under the overall supervision of the People's Bank. In
conjunction with the central and local governments, the ABC exercises
general responsibility for the planning, allocation and distribution of
credit funds (including government grants and subsidies) for agriculture
and related activities. It had an outstanding loan portfolio of Y 47.6
billion at the end of 1980. About three quarters of the loans are short
term (mainly used for production credit or working capital) at 5.76% p.a.
interest, and the remainder medium term (mainly used to purchase agricul-
tural equipment and machinery) at 4.32% p.a. interest.
57.       Fertilizer.  Though Chinese agriculture has long depended on
organic fertilizer, the production and use of chemical fertilizer has
increased over the past few years (with production almost doubling between
1976 and 1979, when it reached over 50 million tons). Nitrogenous
fertilizer accounts for 80% of production, phosphate 19% and potassium 1%.



- 15 -
58.        Seeds.  A comprehensive system has been developed for producing
seed, especially for cereals.  Breeder seeds (produced by colleges, counties
or research stations) are multiplied by county-managed seed farms. Stock
seeds produced by the farms are sold to seed companies, which multiply and
provide certified seeds.
Irrigated Agriculture
59.       Major efforts to develop China's land and water resources were begun
in the 1950s and were the main focus of rural investment during that decade.
Huge projects for flood control, drainage and irrigation employing hundreds of
thousands of workers were undertaken on the North China Plain and in other
areas. Since 1949 some 86,000 reservoirs have been constructed, with a total
storage capacity estimated at about 400 billion cu m. Total irrigation
development is now estimated at some 45 million ha. This represents some 45%
of the total arable area, in contrast to an estimated average of 17% for other
developing countries. About 30 million ha are irrigated by pumping, of which
some 11 million ha are irrigated by 2.1 million tubewells, 80% of them in
northern China. Since 1949, protection from flooding along the major rivers,
especially the Yellow River, has also been greatly improved. It is estimated
by the Ministry of Water Conservancy that some 32 million ha (or nearly a
third of the arable land) of formerly flood-prone lands are now protected by
dikes.
60.        Despite considerable progress in water resource development, large
areas of the North China Plain still suffer from waterlogging, salinity, and
drought. Waterlogging is a condition in which the water table rises so high
that it saturates the root zone and damages the crop. It can arise in a
variety of situations: in poorly drained, low-lying land; in areas where
irrigation has been introduced without adequate drainage; or where the
natural drainage systems are impeded by flood embankments, roads, etc.
Water tables tend to rise in the rainy season and fall in the dry season and,
in the absence of irrigation and drainage, crops can suffer from drought for
much of the year and can then be damaged by waterlogging when it rains.
Soil salinity occurs, or pre-existing soil salinity is worsened, where a high
water table prevents downward percolation and water-borne salts become
concentrated in the soil through evaporation. The Government estimates that
some 6 million ha of land in the North China Plain are affected in varying
degrees by salinity and waterlogging.   With irrigation and drainage, these
lands can be reclaimed and become highly productive for a wide range of crops.
Sector Development Issues and Strategy
61.       Despite the generally commendable past performance, some major
challenges remain in the agricultural sector. The gap between domestic
supply and demand for food and fiber appears to be widening and therefore a
major task is to reduce imports of grains and cotton. At the same time,
efforts are needed to raise the incomes and living standards in rural areas.
In the rice-growing areas most of the relatively easy gains in production
through irrigation and the use of new high-yielding crop varieties and



- 16 -
fertilizers have been achieved, and further improvement in productivity will
be harder and more expensive to achieve. In the North China Plain, improve-
ment in irrigation and drainage can lead to significant gains in grain and
cotton production. In the northern provinces, especially Heilongjiang, there
are good prospects for raising grain and soybean production through land
reclamation, improvements in mechanized farming to reduce harvest losses and
the production of higher quality seeds. There is also scope for further
development of agricultural support services through development of staff at
all levels and upgrading of facilities. The role of the proposed project
would be to promote measures to exploit the potential for further increases in
grain and cotton production in the North China Plain.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
62.       The project was prepared by the engineering and agricultural staff
in the nine project counties with help from the provincial Land Utilization
Bureaus, the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, and the Land Utiliza-
tion Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture. A Staff Appraisal Report
No. 3815-CHA, dated May 26, 1982 is being distributed separately. Supplemen-
tary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 19 to April 20, 1982, with a Chinese delegation led by
Mr. Zhang Quan of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade.
Project Scope and Design
63.       The project would be the first large-scale attack on soil salinity
and waterlogging in China and would serve as a model for future development
of the large areas of land in the North China Plain affected by salinity and
waterlogging. The project would provide drainage and irrigation for about
200,000 ha, covering parts of nine counties in three provinces, and would
also include agricultural inputs and support services to increase agricul-
tural productivity. A population of over 1.2 million, or about 280,000 farm
families, would benefit directly from the project through increased produc-
tion of crops such as wheat, corn, cotton, oilseeds, and rice and through
earnings from tree planting. The project would lead to annual foreign
exchange savings of about $70 million at full development.
64.       Solution of the waterlogging or salinity problem in the project
areas consists primarily of providing a system of open drains which would
remove storm runoff and prevent a rise in the water table in the rainy
season, and at the same time provide subsurface drainage and lowering of the
water table in the dry season. With adequate water table control, the
annual rainfall would be sufficient to leach the top 20 to 25 cm of the soil
profile which is affected by salinity. However, where possible, the system
of drainage should be combined with irrigation to maximize production.
Drainage without irrigation is probab'ly a marginal proposition because
yields and cropping intensities would be seriously constrained by drought.
With irrigation, the timing and amount of leaching can be controlled and the



- 17 -
land can be put into production within a year of completion of the physical
works. Where irrigation can be provided from tubewells there is an added
benefit in improved control of the water table.
65.       The nine counties included in the project were chosen primarily
because each one has a large pilot project where irrigation and drainage
techniques have been tested to form a basis for large-scale developments.
Each county also has a well designed and maintained main drainage system
capable of disposing of runoff from the drains in the project areas.  Six of
the nine counties have waterlogging and salinity problems. The other three
counties suffer from widespread waterlogging and drought but soil salinity
is not present. The project also includes areas in danger of becoming
saline because of rising groundwater levels caused by poor drainage.
66.       In addition to the construction of drainage and irrigation works,
the project would include components designed to enhance the project contri-
bution to land and water development in the North China Plain. A comprehen-
sive soil and water study would be carried out in each of the project areas
to observe the project's impact on soils, water tables, water quality etc.
At the same time, a program to monitor and evaluate the project's
agricultural, economic and social effects would be carried out. The project
also includes an agricultural study of selected areas in the North China
Plain.
Principal Project Features
67.       The project would include:
(a) excavation to increase the capacity of some 70 km of river
channels and 1,260 km of existing main and branch drains;
(b) construction of 3,200 km of lateral drains and 8,200 km of
sublaterals;
(c) construction of new pumping stations for drainage and irrigation
and installation of approximately 3,000 hp of pumping capacity;
(d) construction of about 8,450 tubewells, and procurement of pumps
and motors for these wells and for about 4,010 existing wells;
(e) various works to improve water control at the field level con-
sisting of land smoothing on about 60,000 ha, and field ditches
and field drains to complement the drainage works and tubewells;
(f) additions of 700 km of 10 kV lines, 1,470 km of 380 V lines, and
related substations and provision of transformers;
(g) construction and improvement of 130 km of rural roads;



- 18 -
(h)  procurement of agricultural machinery and construction
equipment;
(i)  procurement of phosphate fertilizer and insecticides;
(j)  tree planting along field borders and establishment of orchards
and wood lots;
(k)  a program to strengthen research and extension services in the
project areas;
(1)  a comprehensive program of soil and water studies in each project
area including technical assistance for the studies; and
(m)  an agricultural study of selected areas in the North China Plain
to help formulate future agricultural development plans and to
identify and prepare future projects.
Project Works
68.       Drainage Works.  Rivers and streams have been canalized to form
the main backbone of the drainage systems in each of the project areas.  In
addition there is a fairly extensive system of branch drains. The aim of
the proposed improvements of the river channels and main and branch drains
would be to provide discharge capacity needed to handle surface runoff from
a five-year storm.
69.       Lateral drains in most parts of the project are too widely spaced
to serve as adequate collectors of storm runoff and are not deep enough to
have an appreciable effect on water table depths. As a result of these defi-
ciencies, severe and prolonged flooding often occurs in the project areas and
this leads to waterlogging and salinity.  A major feature of the project
would be to provide a much more effective system of laterals and sublaterals.
70.       Tubewells.  The project would provide for the construction of
8,450 new tubewells and installation of pumps and motors. About 11,130
tubewells have been drilled in the project areas to date and of these the
project would provide 4,010 new pumps and motors to replace old and ineffi-
cient units. The completed wells would be equipped with centrifugal pumps
and about 5,920 would be powered by 4 to 5 hp electric motors, and 6,540
by diesel engines. Thus, the project area would have a total of 19,580
tubewells. All well drilling is carried out by provincial or county drilling
crews who have gained considerable experience over the past few years.
71.       On-farm works.  Field drains would be constructed to carry rainfall
runoff to the sublaterals and laterals. The field ditches and drains would
be built by each collective within the area it farms. Similarly, land
smoothing would be carried out by the collectives in areas where needed to
improve water control.



- 19 -
72.       Rural Electrification.  Each county already has rural electrifica-
tion systems which reach varying proportions of the communes and brigades.
To expand the system, the project would provide 700 km of 10 kV lines,
1,470 km of 380 V lines, 750 10 kV/380 V transformers for wells and 3 sub-
stations. Assurances have been obtained from the provincial governments
that an adequate power or fuel supply would be made available for tubewells
in the project areas (draft Project Agreements, Section 2.01(a)).
73.       Rural Roads.  About 130 km of the existing roads in the project
areas of Mengcheng, Guoyang, and Suixi counties are narrow and unpaved,
making them impassable after heavy rains. About 100 km would be
asphalt-surfaced and 30 km would be earth roads.
Agricultural Development
74.       Agricultural Machinery and Construction Equipment.  The project
includes machinery to provide for greater timeliness in farm operations,
particularly during periods of peak labor demand at the time of plowing,
sowing and harvesting. Double cropping is practiced over a major portion of
the project area, and in view of the variations in the frost-free periods,
timeliness of operation is important.
75.       Fertilizer and Agrochemicals.  The soils of virtually the entire
project area are deficient in phosphate. Domestic production of super-
phosphate, while increasing, does not meet current demands, and shortfalls
are expected in the project areas. Therefore, following completion of the
drainage works, and after the salts have been leached from the soil, the
project would finance an initial application of diammonium phosphate (DAP)
as a soil amendment.
76.       Tree Planting.  Because of the need for fuel, construction materials
and fodder, only a fraction of crop residues in the project area is currently
returned to the soil. Tree planting would alleviate the shortage of rural
fuel and construction materials and thereby encourage the recycling of crop
residues. Commercial forest of mixed species would be planted. Short
stature crops or creepers would be intercropped in the first 3 years after
transplanting. Orchards would also be intercropped prior to maturity.
Field border plantings and shelter belts would usually be established. The
project would include nurseries for the production of about 35 million
seedlings.
77.       Research, Extension and Training.  To meet the research and exten-
sion needs of the project, the facilities at county research and extension
centers would be improved. The project would include construction of
laboratories, dormitories and lecture rooms, and provision of different
types of laboratory equipment. The project would also include the local
training of extension staff from communes and brigades.



- 20 -
Soil and Water Studies
78.       A comprehensive program of soil and water studies would be carried
out in each of the project areas to observe the project's impact on soils,
water tables, water quality, etc. The results of the study would guide the
operation of the project and provide a basis for the planning and design of
future drainage and irrigation projects in the North China Plain. The
project would finance the program's equipment requirements and consulting
services to assist the project authorities in setting up the program and for
periodic technical review of the findings.
North China Plain Agricultural Study
79.       The North China Plain contains some of the best land in China for
wheat, corn, cotton and oilseeds and cropping intensities of 140 to 150% are
achieved in many areas. There is still potential, however, in many parts of
the Plain, to raise yields and production which in turn would increase farm
incomes and reduce China-s imports of foodgrains and cotton. The objectives
of the study would be to: (a) identify the main physical, agronomic and
financial constraints to higher crop production in selected areas of the
North China Plain; (b) formulate agricultural development plans to overcome
these constraints; and (c) identify and prepare future agricultural projects.
Implementation Schedule
80.       The project works would be constructed in a period of four years
beginning in October 1982. The emphasis in the first year would be on
improving main and branch drains and constructing some of the new laterals
and sublaterals. Construction of structures and pumping stations would
proceed throughout the year. Tubewells construction and on-farm works would
also be year round. Extension of power lines would proceed in phase with
tubewell construction and most would be completed by 1985. Buildings would
be constructed mainly in the first two years. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that by August 31 of each year, detailed work plans for
the following year would be prepared for IDA review (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.09).
Cost Estimates
81.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $177.5 million
of which $49.2 million or 28% would be the foreign exchange component. The
foreign exchange component is relatively low, because the earthworks,
construction of structures and buildings, and tree planting would be carried
out mostly by manual labor using mainly local materials. The foreign
exchange costs are based on the estimated imported components of locally
produced materials and goods, mainly materials and fuel.
82.       The cost estimates are expressed in June 1982 prices.  A physical
contingency of 15% has been applied to civil works and equipment costs.
Expected price increases amount to 17% of the base cost plus physical



- 21 -
contingencies and are based on price escalation of the local component at 6%
per annum and the foreign component at the following rates:  1982, 8%; 1983,
8%; 1984, 7.5%i 1985, 7%; and 1986-90, 6% per annum.
Financing
83.       Of the total project cost of $177.5 million, the IDA credit would
finance $60 million (34%). Since the foreign exchange component is small, the
34% is a reasonable contribution to the project total cost. The provincial
governments would contribute $39 million. The cost of on-farm works, about
$20.7 million, would be borne by the production teams. The remaining $57.8
million would be provided by cash contributions from counties and communes
($45.8 million) and labor paid for by collectives to construct drains, drill
tubewells and plant trees.
Procurement
84.        Civil works ($66.3 million) and tubewell drilling ($22.9 million)
scattered over nine counties would be carried out by force account by
provincial and county construction companies and drilling crews and employing
labor from the collectives over a period of three to four years. This type of
construction in China is efficient and low-cost, provides off-season employ-
ment for the rural population, and would not be likely to attract foreign
contractors.
85.        Phosphate fertilizer and agrochemicals ($22.0 million) would be
imported and therefore procured following international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Rural electrification equipment
($6.3 million) would also be procured through ICB. A 15% preference margin,
or prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Tubewell pumps and motors
($12.3 million) and farm equipment ($3.4 million) would be purchased by
collectives scattered across nine counties over a period of three to four
years and, therefore, bulk procurement in large contracts would create
problems in storage and distribution. Accordingly, the existing procedure
would be followed whereby the production teams would purchase such equipment
through county supply companies which act as agents for local manufacturers.
In each province, there are manufacturers producing acceptable equipment at
prices which are competitive with world market prices. Construction equipment
($0.2 million) would also be procured locally since the small number of items
involved would not justify setting up the after-sales service needed for
imported equipment.
Disbursement
86.       Disbursements for drainage, structures and well drilling would be
20% of the total cost; disbursement for pumps and motors would be 50% of
total cost. Disbursement for agricultural machinery construction equipment
and rural electrification equipment would be 100% of ex-factory costs or 100%
c.i.f. costs and at 100% of the c.i.f. costs for agricultural chemicals.
Disbursements for force account works and pumps and motors would be against
statements of expenditure supported by progress reports showing physical



- 22 -
quantities and unit prices. Agreement was reached with the Government on unit
prices for the-various project items (draft side letter). It is estimated
that disbursements would be completed by December 1987, six months after
completion of project works.
Accounts and Audits
87.       Each county and provincial Project Management Office (PMO)
(paras. 92 and 93) would maintain separate accounts in sufficient detail to
record all expenditures for force account construction and earthworks and
payment to county well drilling crews, equipment supply companies and consul-
tants. The central PMO (para. 94) would collate the half-yearly progress
report showing these expenditures both half-yearly and cumulative. For civil
works, the expenditure would be broken down according to the major elements of
main, branch, lateral, sublateral etc. Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that the accounts for each province would be audited annually by
independent auditors which are expected to be from the Provincial Bureau of
Finance. The project's audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each financial year (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 4.01(c)).
Environmental Effects
88.       The project would not lead to any basic change in land use.  Drain-
age and irrigation would reduce salinity, waterlogging, drought and surface
flooding, and improve the environment for crop production. The project would
have no adverse environmental effects.
Organization and Management
89.       The organization for implementing the project would be based
primarily on the existing structure of the county governments and their
relation to the provincial governments and central government agencies.
However, to ensure the efficient channelling of funds and timely execution of
the project, Project Management Offices (PMOs) have been set up at the county,
provincial and central levels.
90.       The design and construction of laterals and sublaterals would be the
responsibility of the counties. Responsibility for the excavation of the main
drains and design and construction of the branch drains would rest with the
provincial governments.
91.       The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) would be responsible for
channelling project funds from the central Government to the provinces,
counties and collectives. The bank has an extensive network of branches at
the provincial, county and commune levels. The provincial branches would
disburse project funds to the provincial government agencies for project
works undertaken by them and for expenses of the provincial Project Manage-
ment Offices. Likewise, part of the project funds would be channelled



- 23
through the countty branches for prcject works -aundertaken by county govern-
ment agencies ancd for expenses of the county PFIAOss. The remaining project
funds would be charine 1led through. ABC-s commure braniches to farmers and
collectives for the construction of tube-eL1Ls, and purchase of tubewell
equipment, agricultural machinery, fertilizer, agrochemicals and seedlings.
These funds would he recovered on be'half` of the counties/provinces from
rec!pients in accordance with terms determined by the PMOs, whLch are likely
to be the ABCJs existag tLerms and conLditions (para. 56).
Project Management and CoordinatI on
92.       The county governnents would each establish a PMO to handle the
day-to-day affairs of the project. I- each county a senior official has
been appointed as Project Manager to supervise the PMO operations. The PMO
would comprise a General AdministraLive Office and four sections:  engineering
and construction, research and trallning, finance and materials supply, and
monitoring and evaluation.  it would be responsible for scheduling the work
of the existing offices and bureaus involved, such as the Water Conservancy
Bureau (mainly responsible for planning and design), and the various
supporting bureaus such as Finance and Procurement.  The county PMO would
also prepare annual budgets fcr the project, maintain project accounts,
monitor the operation and mairtenance of irrigation and drainage systems
built under the project, organize training for collective members, and
monitor and report project progress. Supervising the county PMO would be a
Project Committee, wlhich would review the vila-s and programs of implementing
agencies and the annual budgets and meet periodically to review progress.
93.       To coordinate project implementation within a province, a provin-
cial Project Cowmittee would be set up in parallel with the existing
committees in the provincial government- A Project Management Office,
headed by a manager, -would assist the committee in carrying out the
functions of coordinatinig and supervising project implementation in the
participating couxnties.
94.       Project execution would he coordinated by a central Project
Management Office attached to the Ministry of Agriculture.  The office would
be headed by a Project Coordinator.  The central PMO would be responsible
for administration of the project as a whole and for overall coordination
with the Ministries and other central agencies involved. Assurances have
been obtained from the Government that the central P w0 Would be adequately
staffed at all times with experienced and qualified persocnel, and that IDA
would be consulted about anly replacement of the Project Coordinator
(draft Develooment Credic Agreement, Section 3.11).
95.       A Central Proiect Committee, to be chaired by a Vice Minister of
the MOA with representatives fromi other relevant Ministries concerned with
the project, would be set up Co deal with policy matters and interministerial
coordination/cooperation, as well as liaise writh other state commissions.
The Project Coordinator and managers of the provincial and county PMOs and
the technical staff of the PMOs at the different levels have already been
appointed.



- 24 -
96.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The central PMO, with the cooperation of
tne Economic Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (CAAS), and the county and provincial PMOs, would monitor and
evaluate the impact and economic benefits accruing from the project.
Benchmark surveys would be conducted in the project areas to determine the
current conditions and levels of inputs and production. Crop statistics and
physical and financial progress of the project would be collected by the
county PMOs. Consultants would be provided under the project to assist in
developing suitable techniques and procedures for monitoring and evaluation.
Agricultural Support Services
97.       Agricultural Research and Extension.  At the central level the CAAS,
aside from its responsibility for providing support and guidance to provincial
Academies of Agricultural Science and county-level research institutes,
maintains a Saline Soils Improvement Station at Dezhou (Shandong).
98.       Each county in the project has a county agricultural research
institute and, under its supervision, research groups at the commune and
brigade levels. The research institutes would verify and assess improved
farming practices in different locations in the project areas. The main
emphasis would be on varietal screening, fertilizer trials, pest and disease
control and production of breeder seeds. The project would provide funds for
strengthening and upgrading the research facility in each county. Additional
training would also be provided for research and support personnel.
99.       Around 100 personnel in each county are employed at the county or
commune levels in extension work. At the county level, there is usually an
agrotechnical extension station with stations for seed improvement, plant
protection, agricultural machinery, animal husbandry, and forestry. The
project would include the expansion of buildings and equipment for county
level training of commune and brigade technicians and extension personnel in
each county.
100.      Seed.  Provision of improved seeds in each county is the responsi-
bility of the county seed company. Breeder seeds from the provincial Academy
of Agricultural Sciences or the county agricultural research institutes are
multiplied either by county-managed seed farms or else by commune production
teams or scientific experiment teams under contract to the seed company. The
Bureau of Seeds has established pilot projects in about 120 counties, and the
provincial governments have set them up in about 200 counties. This seed
improvement scheme would be extended to the project areas. Assurances have
been obtained that only seeds certified by or on behalf of the MOA would be
distributed by the seed companies under the project (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.10).



lO0.      Fertilizer.  Dlomestic production of fertilizer nas been given high
priority by the Governrment and will continue to grow as a result of large
plants that are already urider construction,  Five of these plants are in
provinces where the project is locatede.  Adequate nitrogenous fertilizer
will be available from  these plants to meet the needs of the project areas
at full development. Domestic production of phosphatic fertilizers falls
far short of requiirements, hence imports will h.ave to be expanded.  Pro-
vision has been made under the project to import diammonium phosphate for
application in deficit areas.  S"upply stations of the Supply and Marketing
Cooperative are established at each commune and would be responsible for
provision of fertilizer and other -nputs to thie production teams.
102.      A ochemicals.  Higher standards of pest control, especially for
cotton, will be needed to achiieve thae higher yields resulting from better
water control.  Tnhe project iLcludes procurement of carbofuran and power
sprayers for use in orchards and cotton. Expanding domestic production will
be suf'ficient to meet requirements for other agrochemicals.
Consulting Services
103.      The Government: would employ consultants to assist in (a) the
soil and water studies program (para. 78), (b) monitoring and evaluation
(para. 96), and (c) the North China Plain Agricultural Study (para. 79).
The services under (a) and (b) would. best be provided by a consulting firm
able to call on a wide range of experts on short-term assignment.  The
assignment would begin in early 1983 and continue over a period of four
years. The consultant input is estimated at about 35 man-months. The
North China Plain Agricultural Study would also require experts on short-
term assignments to cover a wide range of disciplines, and again there
would be advantages in having these services provided by a consulting firm
with experience in basin studies.  The estimated input is 52 man-months,
and the assignment would begin in mid-1983. The use of consulting firms
rather than individual consultants would be miuch simpler from the stand-
point of administration, it would ensure that the work is properly
coordinated and also give the implementing agencies access to a wide range
of experts.  Consulting firms would also help in purchasing field and
laboratory equipment and in organizing and conducting overseas training
courses for project personnel. The estimated overall man-month cost for
specialists would be about p12,000, inclusive of salaries, overhead,
overseas allowances, travel, and living expenses while in China.  An
assurance was obtained that the Government would carry out the soil and
water studies under agreed terms of reference and present a report on
them to IDA for its review by Decemoer 31, 1986. Assurances were also
obtained that the North China Plain Agricultural Study would commence by
July 1, 1983 under agreed te-nias of reference, and that all consultants
under the project would be selected in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines (draft Development Credit Agreement. Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08).



- 26 -
Operation and Maintenance
104.      The county Bureau of Water Conservancy would be responsible for
the operation and maintenance (O&M) of river improvements and main pumping
stations. O&M of main and branch drains and their structures would be
carried out by the communes under the direction of the Bureau of Water
Conservancy which would inspect the project works periodically. Likewise,
the production brigades would provide funds for O&M of lateral and sublateral
drains and their structures under the direction of the commune. Production
teams would operate and maintain on-farm drains and tubewells, and members
would provide the labor and funds. The county Project Management Office
would appoint persons in the communes and brigades to be in charge of O&M in
the project areas.
Agricultural Production
105.      The total cultivated area is about 178,000 ha.  However, the total
cropped area at present is estimated at some 245,000 ha, which represents a
cropping intensity of 138%. Of this area, wheat, which is the most impor-
tant foodgrain, accounts for some 93,000 ha; maize, 49,000 ha; soybeans,
24,000 ha; sweet potatoes, 24,000 ha; rice, 1,900 ha; and miscellaneous
grains (primarily sorghum and millet), 14,000 ha. The most commonly
encountered cropping system is wheat/maize, with winter wheat (or barley)
grown from late October to early June and maize often sown in May between
the rows of wheat before harvest. Rotation schemes generally feature three
crops in two years. Single-cropped foodgrains, oilseeds and cash crops are
usually sown in the spring from early- to mid-April.
106.      Without the project, no significant change in cropping patterns is
anticipated. Recent changes in relative crop prices, more attention to farm
income levels, and decentralization of production planning have already led
to significant increases in acreage in oilseeds, cotton and other cash crops,
at the expense of reduced grain acreage and some decrease in overall
cropping intensity. With the project, improved irrigation and drainage
would lead to significant yield increases and this in turn would lead the
farmers to reduce the area under foodgrains, and increase the area under
cash crops. The acreage under sweet potato and maize would be cut back,
Wheat, sorghum, millet and soybean would be maintained at present levels.
Substantially increased acreage would be devoted to the oilseed crops and
cotton because of their profitability.
107.      On completion of project works, yields are expected to rise as
follows: wheat from 1.4 to 2.2 ton/ha; maize from 2.1 to 2.9 ton/ha; rice
from 3.0 to 4.2 ton/ha; and soybean from 0.9 to 1.4 ton/ha. Similar growth
would be expected for oilseed: rape would increase from 0.4 to 0.8 ton/ha
and peanut yields from 1.1 to 1.8 ton/ha. Cotton yields which currently
suffer from poor drainage conditions and salinity, would rise from 0.5 to
0.7 ton/ha of lint. Total production of foodgrains with the project would
increase 44% from 334,000 tons at present to 481,000 tons. The combination



- 27 -
of increased acreage and yields would triple oilseed production, from 7,000
to 24,000 tons, and increase cotton production by 74%, from 14,000 to 24,000
tons.
108.      Because of higher crop yields with the project, the crop area
required to meet subsistence and quota requirements would decrease, the
supply of fodder would be augmented, and farm cash flow increased. There-
fore, the project would permit considerable diversification into subsidiary
farm production which would not occur without the project.
109.      A higher proportion of increased crop residue and a greater
proportion of grain production would be available for use as feed and
fodder.  The number of animals raised is expected to grow, resulting in
greater supply of animal manure which would contribute to soil improvement
and supplement chemical fertilizer as a source of plant nutrients required
to attain target yields.
Markets, Prices, Farm Incomes and Project Charges
110.      China's production of virtually all of the crops grown in the
project area has been insufficient to meet domestic consumption require-
ments, and this has been reflected in increasing imports of these crops in
recent years. The state has a near monopoly on crop procurement and
determines all procurement prices. Until major price increases in 1979,
procurement prices had remained at about the same level for more than a
decade.
111.      There are three tiers to the procurement price structure - quota,
above-quota, and negotiated prices. Quota procurement prices apply to the
annual quota responsibilities of each team or household. Above-quota prices
apply to sales exceeding the quota, the targets for which are determined 1-2
months prior to the harvest of each crop. Negotiated prices apply to sales
by individual farmers (out of the amounts retained by them or grown on
private plots) to the state and occasionally to sales by production teams in
excess of above-quota targets. They are individually negotiated and are
equivalent to the prices prevailing on the free market.
112.      The average farm-gate price of each crop used in the financial
analysis of the project is a weighted average of quota, above-quota, and
negotiated prices.
113.      For the economic analysis of the project, all farm inputs and
outputs were evaluated at projected 1986 economic prices expressed in
mid-1982 constant prices. The economic prices at the farm gate are based on
Bank Group commodity price forcasts, adjusted for quality, international and
domestic transport, and processing costs. For crops which are not traded,
economic prices are based on financial prices adjusted by the ratio of
economic prices to financial prices of traded crops for the appropriate crop
category (foodgrain, oilseeds, or fibers). For want of comparable world
price data, products such as lumber or animals and all nontraded inputs are



- 28 -
evaluated at financial prices.  However, as part of the sensitivity
analysis, estimated local conversion factors were used to adjust local
expenditures and revenues.
114.      The traditional concept of farm income derived from an individually
operated plot is not applicable in the project area, where the land is farmed
collectively. To estimate farm family incomes, a notional farm budget has
been prepared for a farm size of 0.7 ha which is the average area of land per
farm family. The present average annual net farm income per capita in the
project area is about Y 173 ($102). At full development it would rise to
Y 290 ($171), an increase of 67%.
115.      Cost recovery for the project would have several elements.
Payment of unskilled labor (Y 28 million) for on-farm works, well drilling,
tree planting and part of rural electrification would be the responsibility
of the production teams. An additional portion of project expenditure (Y 57
million) would be recovered from repayments to ABC of project funds advanced
to beneficiaries for purchase of machinery, tubewells, chemical fertilizer,
agricultural chemicals, and commercial seed. Excluding indirect charges,
the cost recovery index from these items would amount to 28%. Operation,
maintenance and replacement costs for tubewell irrigation would be borne by
the farmers. Irrigation fees paid for surface water deliveries would meet
operation and maintenance charges for surface irrigation systems.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
116.      The proposed project would increase yields on a total of
182,000 ha of cultivated land, by additional or improved irrigation on
153,000 ha; improved drainage on 139,000 ha; and improvement of 47,000 ha of
Shajiang black soil. Wheat and maize would continue to be the principal
crops, but 14,000 ha would be converted from foodgrains or wasteland into
oilseeds or fiber crops. About 25,000 ha of wasteland would be brought into
cultivation, forests or orchards. At full development, approximately
280,000 families, or 1.2 million individuals, would benefit directly from
increased production. The annual demand for farm labor would increase by
about 15 million man-days, equivalent to about 50,000 full-time jobs. The
project would serve as a large-scale trial and demonstration of techniques
for desalinization, which could subsequently be applied to the remainder of
some 6 million ha of land affected by salinity and waterlogging. The
project would meet the Government's objectives of increased production of
food and fiber crops at a capital cost of about $570 per benefited farm
family, or $800 per hectare. At full development, the project would result
in a reduction in annual imports of grain worth $27 million; soybeans worth
$4 million; oilseeds worth $12 million; and fiber crops worth $26 million,
totaling $69 million.
117.      Distribution of Benefits.  Members of the poorer teams within the
project areas, that is, those which currently lack irrigation facilities or
have a higher proportion of saline land, would receive the greatest benefits
from the project. In the recent past, credit for other than current input



- 29 -
purchases has been largely unavailable to the poorer teams, whereas higher
ability to repay has made it easier for better-off teams to finance further
investment. With the project, additional funds would become available and
inequity in the distribution of agricultural credit would be reduced.
118.      According to national statistics on distributed collective income
per capita (1979), 16% of production teams had distributions of Y 40 or
less per capita, 11% of Y 41-50, 32% of Y 51-80, 16% of Y 81-100, and 25% of
over Y 100. Of the nine counties included in the project, two would be
classified in the bottom 16%, six in the second-lowest 11%, and one in the
median category, based on the official measure of distributed collective
income. Noncollective income represents about 60% of total distributed
income in the project area, which probably exceeds the national average
proportion, and helps to narrow the gap between incomes in the project area
and the national average. On average, incomes of project beneficiaries fall
at the bottom of the second quartile and many into the lowest quartile of
the rural income distribution.
119.      Economic Rates of Return.  The project's economic rate of return
is 30%.
120.      Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity analysis indicates that
the rate of return is moderately sensitive to failures to achieve the
projected yield levels. Sensitivity to assumed values of other variables,
including crop prices, construction costs, development period, and crop
production costs is uniformly low.
121.      Risks.  The project areas have been carefully chosen to maximize the
probability of success. Each has an existing main drainage system and each
has a pilot area where the drainage, irrigation and land development tech-
niques have already been successfully demonstrated. Therefore, no major
technical problems in implementation are anticipated. The project would be
the first IDA-assisted agricultural project in China and would be
implemented at a time of change in rural institutions and farmers' incen-
tives. However, the basic strength of the county governments should protect
the project from any significant administrative problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
122.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between
the Association and the provinces of Anhui, Henan and Shandong, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 30 -
123.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of effectiveness is that China's State Council shall
have approved the project, the Development Credit Agreement, and the Project
Agreements.
124.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
125.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By M. Qureshi
Attachments
May 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA. PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
M- OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
LAND AeEA (THOUSAND SH. KM.)                                      MOST RECENT     LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
TOTAL           95.0OAI     AII
AGRICULTURAL    3196.0                  1960  /b    1970 lb      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        *-          ..            260.0            232.3                1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEK CAPITA
(Kl].OGRAhiS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)       650.1       500.2            634.t1           499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   672865.0   815253.0           964505.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       ..         12.0            13.2             17.3                  40.8
POPULATION PKO3ECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               1239.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 1564.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                            2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. XM.                           70.1        84.9            100.5            153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        214.0       263.0            297.8            360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               ..          ..            32.3              37.4                  39.8
15-64 YRS.                               ..          ..            63.7             59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        ..          ..             4.0               3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.0         1.9              1.9/c            2.1                   2.3
URBAN                                   -           *-              3.0              3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         34.0/d      33.6             17.9             27.7                  29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         10.87d       7.6             6.2              10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..          ..              ..               2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)                         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHEN)        ,.          ..              ..              20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                ..          ..           120.0             107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         ..          ..            104.0/i           98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..          ..            62.8              56.9                  62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..          ..            16.5              14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           ..          ..              ..              14.6                   4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          ..          ..            64.0             57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..          ..            56.0              89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL
URBAN                                         ..                    ..             65.8                   68.0
RUKAL                                   ..          ..              ..             20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..              ..              17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                   ..          ..              ..              71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                   ..          ..              ..               4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              3009.84,&  1709.1/          1162.1/j         3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2847.17 7e   538.871         483.2/e          6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2142.5/d     737.8           499.2            1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                                   ..          ..           172.1            322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..           702.3           5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA. PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      WW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb     ESTIMATE Lb   ASIA 6 PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   102.0         103.0           93.0/f           85.9                  99.8
MALE                       ..            ..            ..              94.4                 100.6
FEMALE                     ..            ..            ..              64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                       ..            ..           51.0             38.01as               53.5
MALE                       ..            ..            ..              34. 67iii             58.4
FEKALE                     ..            ..            ..              18.O7a                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)        ..            ..             ..              3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..            ..           25.1             32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                               ..            ..           19.1             19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              ..            ..          66.0             52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              ..            ..            ..               1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              ..            ..            ..              35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              ..            ..            ..               3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..            ..            ..              14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        ..           ..             ..              3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       234602.4/d h  339960.5/h    403163.1/h
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        ..            ..            ..              29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..            ..           71.0             69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      ..            ..           17.0             14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   37.0/d        41.7           41.8             39.7                  40.2
MALE                                       ..           ..             ..             51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                                    ..            ..            ..              23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   ..            ,.            0.9              1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..            ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..            ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..            ..             134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                   ..            ..            ..             111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..            ..                ..                 249.8
RURAL                                   ..            ..            ..                ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..            ..            ..              41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                   ..            ..            ..              51.7                  32.2
Not available.
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
laa  China included in total only.
7iF  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Latest estimate of annual growth of population is 1.22.
/d   1957; /e Including barefoot doctors; /f Net enrollment, with a gross enrollment ratio of 158; /S Excluding
traditional medical doctors.
/h  Including military personnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most of whom are in temporary jobs.
71   Between 1977-79 per capita supply of calories was estimated to have increased by 16.5Z.
7/.  Country estimate is 644 kilogram of coal equivalent.
Nay, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SDCIAL MISLCATORS
Notes:  Although the data ore deun  true sources generally Judged the  -ot~ eth-ritetive and ramible, it ehood alo be casd than they say net ha inter-
aitienallyuo..paoablo because of the lack of standardised dofstijome an  enepta aged by diffe-ast ceastrias is collecting the data.  The data are,noe
theless   .. usful to deeribo order  of esgitude, Indicate teeds.  e  ohertterise earteis majue differacson  between noutiels.
The Ietrennu, gruuu are II) ths eon  conty grouP of the euhiset scu-try end (2) a ..toan    gruap with gonseeht higher storge incm   the  the teuntry getup
of thefeubjosct couttey  (_nnyr Sot"Cgitul Surplue Oil Eaputtrs" groop where "Middle Ioose North Afrio- and Middle tEat"  e ohose. because. of strooger
oo.to--curor1 offieltien).  Un the rofreenc  groep data the  -vrges are population weighted srithostis n-u  f. orse  indicato and sheen ony when
neoity of  he ooutrieo in a group has data tot thee tdicetor.  tines the ceavarge of ooattrloe amon  the indicatuon deponda on the avilahility of deta
and ig out suif.s-,  -nuion most be ooorulsed in reletugseroe  of one indiuster to enesher.  These-.. vrgen are ony useful in cosysring the value of
ass indI-ator  t u tins ausu  tho uouetey ud referenc  grrups.
LAND AREA (theus.t. doq.ko.)                                                                       Populaion pee Honyitel Bid - tute, ocher, and trurl-  ou1            to  (total,
Tutul - Total surf- or  suuuytn           Iced area sod inland wutere.                            ura,an ua) divided by tter rasporier sashr uS hospital bode
Aniutol- Etiiero of agriculttual area used tepururtly or peennssly                         anlbeis public sod privteir  .ests  so d nystaien1d hosyittel and r-
fer crepe, puarurse,  _sekor aed kitchen gardore or to Ie. fallow; 1978 data.                   habilitati.a   etr.   SSopiesle Ate osiobliabmante p.eeAneetly  teffgd
by at Ilesot .ne physi.iun. feteblishatn pr-idiog peineipelly ..asio-
2ZEP PI  CAnYIA (00) - GNP  prcitesltrat orernt srkt prics r..c.l-                                   dial ours ats  .t inclded.  Ru-a  hoepitels, howeve, igoads heeltb
uolated by .s.n.e co.erio_  ethed as Wold Bank Alla   (1977-79 bsais; i960,                       end  aditel ros ters see p-raently netSffd by a phyolion  (hut hy
197ID, uod 1979 doin.                                                                              edical ..esitetat, notes, midwife, etr) whiub offer in-pusiustare-
datios and pro-ido      alited  -age of medical facilities.  Poe statia-
-                     m~~~~~~~EERIT CONSNUOTION yet CAPITA - A-..I consuePtiuc uf  -o9rin   nrY I(oe                       tite1 purpoen utbso hospitals intds WHO. principalignereal hospitals,
end ligntte, peteuleu, neural gnn and bydro-, oulorad geotherma   1cc-                             sod rura  h.epitslg lau..  or rura  hoepitale snd medhol ned   otoreity
ntriity) lu kilocrnu of ...I equivalent poe r-pite; 196N, 1970. and 1979                          ceaters..Specinlised hospitals are inulded  ouly andor totol.
date,                                                                                           Addiaoioos pro foorical Bid - Tonal outher af odiaoeto or disobtegos
roeSf hoepitels divided by the suehsr of beds.
POPULATION AN1 UITAL STATISTYICS
Total  .Pupltio   idYear (thcu..anda) - Au of July 1; 1960, 1970, eud 1979                    HOSINGtIS
data.                                                                                         Avrse  ir  o           houebld (pereone par houselhold) -total., rh._ und rrl
Ubee Poutisirccuf totu) - "tuni  of urban te "tota  P.pulnion;. b                                        hase d nosaeo      rupo   niitl  wosoelvn   quater
different det-ititon   of cehuoureco     y  f .07 .attes   nepaability of dons                 cud tbrnr  e.m  made,. A hoarder or lodgsr sy  e say eat he inclded in
easu  s..ntrloo; 1960, 1970, eel 1979 data.                                                     nho heoe.ehold for statiattapaos.
Perulatlon prujootisoc                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-eresonut- of penss per room -ttal, urban, and --ra  - Avs-geso
poun iu to yorON- Ga-rret populatios projentlons ate huar.d on 1980                       hr of per.o.e per room  in all urha, ian  rural ..toopiad ee te
te tel population by age end eon  td their nrtistiy .an  fertility ratse.                     dwslltnge, respectivlay.  tw-l1irge exclude  c-er et etruturs  and
Prujocti-o parmonees f0 ormotaity raise sunpeis.ofu threeleel asso--_nernP'e  puts.
iog life  peapotonny at birth increasig with ...uniry's per o.Pit. Inom                     Ae.e.a to Electricity (earnet of dwallises) - total, urban, end rutel -
level, and ftule life -styecauy etblltoin  at 77 .1 years   The Peru-                          Conventional dwellings with ale-trieity ie living quarters as per-tneog
sentr. foe fterilitry rute aleo have those levlsasen    drolino inof tonal, erbn, sod rura  dwellIngs r-ePe-iv-y.
ferility  coc..edlng e- Inucr leve  an  past fatly pl.aneig potfrfouAsne
feth remary in tIer ...igned ote of thogs nino -eomiuttuu of netality                     EDiUCATION
adfertilty  tr       te    rjeetio  purposes.                                             Adjusted Enolet Sain
stationer  puru.seis  - Iu 5 otoiuoevy Populstion tber  is so growth alos.P Imr  sEhe - total mole ad Pam1l - ire.n total, male and fale
the birth rate ts equal tohnb  death rate, and also the age etensture rs-                       onrolleet of all ages at the primary level as peresunages of vs-pntive
moms uo-rt,t.  Thin in achieve  only after fertility estee denline so                           peinry  ebhol-age populatiene; carmaly includes children  ged 6-il
thereyecaeetlevl s  uit nt r_prdotio  rane, wheo each ge.sr-tin                          yearn but adjusted fee different longth.ofu primar  idun..tins; tee
of ueoo  rplec    1 tonfteast.y . The stationery populatis etes w.s.outr ies rith  niv-ral edteatioc enrollmet mop exceed 10  perrest
s-tImte  n  the bem    f h             trsnd  hererterieties of the populatin                   ai.c sun .Pupl  orebelow orebo.s the etftis1 aehool O.1.
in the yesr 2000, and rhe rate of doclise of fertility rtec to replac-...d.rusol     nl marsdfmLe - Cm.tctd as above; srtedar
mut lsvo.                                                                                        dunation requIres at 1enst fur years of approved primary ineteactix;
UsrnY-    err   --uslaiet is roes.bed - Th. yase  h.. stetiteary pepulati-                         provides genore, ve-tiena, or teacher troting9 inatrcetine  fr popib.
sior hoe boon roe.hed.                                                                          oselly of 12 to 17 yeova of age; cee-sPend-n covs  are geserlly
per eq. ho.- Mid-year pspnlurico pit eqoero kilomter (1ii beatses) of                           Veostional erollmet (reveent of  ...nar'  - Vo..stiosa  inetitetinn.
teul  aea  19001, 197i and 1979 dai.t                                                           include iehalnal, industria.  prote  prgres   hibn  opertet indep.d-
per Os. in,.r seioltrallad   -Ceputd as above for agieoltu...l lend                                stly or ae deper-tmen  of saeedory icaintnans
only; 1960, 1970 s-d 1970 dote.                                                               lut-abeII raio    rmr.sa   sodr    Tetal  eneda     enrolled is
Pseleten  oe  tea"ur  (percent) -Childees (0-li Yese). wrking-age (15-                         p       Per  and    ..odrylvl d  ividedf.'M 19 by  onbera of tsahbee  in the
hi year) , and retired(61 years end ove) no perce..tages of mid-ysar peps-                         e"sPeetglees
litiun; 1960, 1970,-ad 1979 dote.                                                               Adl  ieetsasfeen)-tinrats Adulta fAble to rnd and -nit.)
Guasto   roeth Sans (percen.t) - itetl ~- aul goowth retas of total mid-                       As s pernamtge of ntatl  adut pplseaged 15 yeses andavr
ymoetpep.altiona for 1950-hI )1960-, ed 1970-79.
PoeuLetiee Cr_t  Ste (rercn -_ uban - Adoaa  growth  stie. of erba  pep-                      COSNISUMTION
lationo  tsn 1950-f0, 1960-70, end 197f-79.                                                   Psaseneer furs tpre  thoasse  eoealsnien) - Pasaomger tars nomPee  -tnse
Cruda Bimbh Nate  pe  hosad  - A-suI live birthe par thousand of mid-y-s                           oars seating lees then sighs PerMe; encldee  -mbalstee, hacrase an
popuLaniun; 1060,.1970,. Ied1979 dens.                                                          mllisenyvbil
Crude Deth bate leer thooasd) - dA-Is doathe per thesnode of mid-yea                            Sadi6 R.esiver  (err thoussd esepletisa) - All typostf neirefee radie
pepuletIon; 19611, 1970, cad 1979 dots.                                                         head-sas  en gererl pablis per thousand ef pepeleti; moo1de  -
truss Nspeoduntien Hita- Avergo nubee of daeghnetre            - ao  will bmor to                 lleened remoiwero in eentrtee end to ymer when regeteatlon of redis
her ..-ca  r-pr-d-ti- perind if shn experieosa preen   gs-epecifle fer-                         sntn  i   f  o; dote for penman  pena may can be omp..rable aine
tilty   ats;  nualyfIveya  ovegas: ediag in 1960. 197f, end 19P9.                         most o...tries abolished   tnig
Paiy Peatr  Aeneoltuen.                Itue   i _eade) - A-as   saber of  neepsora              Tf Re-s-ver  (ter th.... d 22ultin  - TV esoetere for breade..at no
of bierb--rst-u  devins undse  -upines of  eniu..aI family plannig program.                     genera  public per thousand pepleios; exeldes enliemsd TV P . roiv.rs
famLiy Plneii - Users  orregu of carried was1heenug   gmtldi   -etriea ond in yeura when rgistrati-on f TV sets wee in eWifot.
oucr  f  btd-bur..in  age ('15-Oh yours)dwo  e  brh  -ero  dais               ~        SNarone  itirosnu   f    thousand oornioe) - ibow  the aveag  uir-
all marie  -eu  to aes  age group.                                                                utain  of "doily general itetort newpaper", defioedaeapeuledie
publicntion d-vund priarly  to esetd.            - geealtn.  It ia nonidre
POOl AND NTfTRITION                                                                                  te he "daily' if it  ipor   t lee     a  imes  -awe.
Indes of Peed Pedenuerrc Cpita (1900-71             )-Index of poer spisa  -eca                 Cisem  sA.-   Attenda eero  Corin   e ro  Tsr - Sa..ed on the seber of
production  faltr  roodtts    rdueo  eouktse   ndfe   d                                          ihn  sol  during the yrer. ineading adm.iaec  to drive-in eimee
io en caendue Year besis.  Cnerditios sower pr icary goods (e..g. grso                          and mobile anise..
trained of sugar  whirb11 ertdible and s..otoin sattieet   (e.g. reffoe and
toe see ea1udod).  Aggregate pesiuctioc of -.eh ....er  is  based onLABOR FORCE
caioa  aeog   roduo ..prre weights,;f19h1-l  190   n   99 data.Tonal Labor Prone (nhecenda    3-- freicly nurivo pereome  ialeding
pero _seinet.   l   frlstn(oun  ofPeqienosta) -  epu    tae                                            ferces and  innlyd bun e..nlediug h-uoi-sa  atdex                t.
enery  quiv-l-t ef eetifeud eupplire eviluble in  -easiy per eapine                          cvortng pueoion of all ages.  Definitions in  aiu.onfn   e
per dey.  bA.ileblo supplies comprise dnmatiu p-doduties, iperts lose                         not ...apcrblo; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dsta.
eapurtu, sod chances i to aee.  Net aupylie exclde animal fsed, erode,                      Pea1l (nerent)  P-1Pea  labor fers  e  oesstg  of ttn1 labor Soe.
qusno itie..s..od to ford p.....nlnc. and lse tdistribution. Saquies-                       Agvicolters feret) -; Lab lortges  is fsnig            -foete, hating sod
_.Ltu were estimated by PAI bused.t physieloiou   ,.ods fee  -uma anti-                       fiahn   ca prsstag  of total Isbur ferns; 1960, 1970 end 1979 date,
vity aud health  ..ueod-ritgo. reeno  temperature  bedy weights, ago                        Industry  penrtot) - Labor forse is miin.IB  eonecotreiee, snfactaring
mad"sediotribsti_ ofpopuation, nod elluing 10 pors=   fur  ease at                            ad electrieity, water  ud gS.  Os pero...toge of tonal labor fot;1960.
household level; 1961-65, 1970,..ad 1977 dntu.                                                1970 aud 1979 dana.
Pr trin  orl of preivi  (sea  ev  Yu'  - Protsis neoteen of Pee caPita.                 atneto   aefarn)-tal   o . ad f-sle - PartinipeaLes or
ne~t suply of food Par fey.  Nat sPply of food is definod as above.  Na-                      entivit  rats  re  umpunad as tota,7 mae,ed Sa1s Libor forc  en
qulo_etto for elI ru...utrio  established by UNDA provide for sinesPeroonngos of tetsl  mole and fsa1o population of all a gee repetive1y;
allaw...e of 60 gese   uu   rii p          ee,1 b  dsy end 20Otgree  of asisl and             1960, 1970, and 1979 data,o Those are bed en d ,Ill's1p patiriptio  rates
puler protein,Ifwt  10 grt   shoul  be animal prtin.  Th.ne sued-                             reflecting . .ge-e. .trontre of she  poplation  and lung time trend.  A
arde see lone  thun thnuo of 75 gS.-  of tutu1 protein end 23 gaSt        oenetiae  ore Seen canis a.I-tera..
aetoal  rrt  so -osrg  for the cueld, propr...d by PAi in nnthe ir                         t         Dsa e trred-u    Rtio  - Satie uf populatiun ader 11 and 65 ad ove
Weeld Food Sur-y; 19f61-65, 1970 end 1977 daiu.                                               to  she tntel Labor Purse.
Per esynt ronir eyry teen otmo1 sod oulse - Peotein supply of food de-
rived fa  eiuend pulses to g=eo  er doy; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977.data.                    INCeSt DISTIBXInOt 05
Child (curs 1-4) ba-ality Nate (pertouan) - Aecl deetha per thousan d to                        Per.eotnsof Private Insam(both in tush aed ktd  - Received by riret
si   ru   -A yeoe   to shildeon is thin  gcr grop; for moot devloping .....               I preret. rishest 20 purret, Prrost 20 percet, end poorent 40 Fersen
toton dens d-rtvd fron life tables; 1960, 1070 mad 1979 dens.                                   uf housholds.
SHEALTH                                                                                         PIVERITP TARfET GROUPS
Lif.E.. -orecy or Birth (years) - Average cuter of years of life reciningTefloigotmss  r   eyepeiaomoo so   eor   ees
ft bli;16,17   n   99di.gd ehood be inteprettd with onusidorable sation.
Isteet Nartality  tei f per theu...d)- Annual doathbouf i.efnnn  onder eec yoer                 fEtimetod Absolute Poverty Is.o-  Lv-l (US$ prt  -pit.) - urban end rurl
of.   t ago pe  ehtsodo liv    bi  -n                                                             Abeolute povrty ieeum   t-nI is than inrom   lrvr  below  hdioh   minial
Scees a   ateWeee oeeon o  eoultien- tu'Ie    mben  en.ua.-ns.ntritiona.lly odeqcat  dint plea soneetto  no-fsod esqeireets is cat
bet of peol  (eel   rbn  en  .u.o) withreusbeeea  te ea -                                         fudbe
enter eupely (locldes created surf.. sowters or ntcrntod bu  .t umos   eted                   intimatedbRlatv   oet   soo  ee   USpronta      raedma
easer such as thet fees preneotod borehulos, sp cg,ad essitery wls   sRrlrltv    een   n olvli   n-hr   faeeepeopt
p_ruetogen of theirr-ep-unive NOPuI.l-teO    In so urban sons ot ppebyiie.li.ottir   f   e                                                                           prcpt
feoeno   todorlntiec   oene   00sir   rma  os   a   epete.o..l i-nm   of tho o-rety.  Urban level is derived fees the rura
uotsidort en   dp.og wihi ...  ueb t   cd eseeofth.   .0thent house, h~ -nets   aren           level wish edjatgt for higher cost of livig in urba  sTe..
__1d-    :~, ,119 ithi.c.e..bl.   ...   I    .   h.    .1. r... Ir...estimated eorulautos Below  Ahbouto Povety, I-em  Loyal (enoat) - urban
reoneabe ertascoud to17  hot hn  ouswifeut   shee o  sh  hosehoi        mdrua  -  eemt of populctinn  (ubao  -nd tota) sh  Are"aslt
do  o  here to spet  a diapropoetionato pFit  of the dey in ftoihing thin
f_sily'  eater ott ds...
Asss vs.    oe...  iuoa t(ureceot.-.    oftrla n-           a., urban, and mi-I-
saber uf Pe;sPI. (cu-, urbee, etdrural  serve  he ese-   diapecal aa
peseentagee of their -apnqvspp ulati- na. bacsi  dispoea  may inslda
tha nolecanad disposal, with on without tretmetnt, of huma  moneeta                                                                   unmea.etlDt   iie
eud  _aste-... he   y octo-b-sen syotm  or she ass of pit privise end simi                                                      la iE-clyie and S- ro1eCtion fieparmo
1cr isutallnti..eoei.A.l..   ed ta7 1901                                                                                                                             rm.r-
Porulceien pe Pyjo    - Populutiee divided by caber of psottoing. physt-                                                                                     18
stats qualified f u       -amdirl ohot at univraity 1"'01
Pousin o7        usnaPru   Ppulutinn divided by ouhb  of prsion
moesdfml   ruduenot rco,peottual eer, se. .d au.cisnant nureso.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77    1978   1979        1980
Production
cross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4        9.0    8.6        2.7
Light industry                   8.3       7.8       10.8    9.6       18.4
Heavy industry                  11.6       9.3       15.6    7.7        1.4
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2      4.8       12.4    7.0        6.9
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   100.0    101.9   108.0
NMP deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66        1.54    1.50
Amount
1979              Shares of GDP (%)         Average Annual Growth (X) at Constant Prices
National Accounts             ($ billion)   1957    1979    1985    1990           1957            1970-79           1980-85
/a             /a
GDP                           254.1       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             5.8            5.8              4.2
Agriculture                  79.7          ..    31.4    28.5    26.2            1.6             3.2              3.0
Industry                    110.9          ..    43.7    45.9    47.4           12.1             8.9              4.6
Services (incl. constr.)   63.5            ..    25.0    25.6    26.4            3.5             4.3              4.5
Consumption                   177.4        76.4    69.8    72.1    72.1             2.7            5.4              4.3
Investment                     79.0        23.2    31.1    29.0    29.0            9.8             6.8              4.2
Exports GNFS                   13.99/b      3.7/b   6.0/b   6.5        7.2          1.6 /b         8.0/b             2.1
Imports GNFS                   17.277-b    3.57Tb   7.0Th   7.6       8.3           2.3 7b         9.4T7            4.2
National savings               76.7/c      23.6/c  30.2/c  28.1    27.5                             ..               6.0
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                   1957          1979
Current revenues (excluding foreign           28.7           27.3
borrowing)
Current expenditures                          15.1           17.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +13.6         +10.3
Capital expenditures                          13.7           15.6
Foreign borrowing                              0.7            0.9
Other Indicators                              1957-79   1980-85
GNP growth rate (%)                           5.4/d      4.1
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                3.57Ti     2.9
Energy consumption growth rate (X)            8.3        3.1
ICOR                                          5.4        7.2
Marginal savings rate                         0.42       0.39
Import elasticity                             0.95       1.04
/a  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past NMP and GDP growth in this data sheet).  At
Indian prices, GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                Annual Growt:h Rates (Z)
(million US$ at                           (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                Actual                            Projected
1979            1977   1978  1979   1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
External Trade
Merchandise exports            13,987             2.1   10.1   25.7    18.0    1.2    1.8    2.4    3.0    2.5
Energy                        2,727              ..     ..      *.       ..  -15.7  -18.1  -21.2  -25.6  -44.5
Other primary                 4,770              ..     ..      ..      ..    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Manufactures                  6,490              ..     ..      ..       ..    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7
Merchandise imports            17,266             1.1   32.6   25.6       9.8    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Food                          3,229              ..     ..      ..      ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Petroleum                         0            0       0      0        0       0      0       0       0      0
Machinery and equipment       4,351              ..     ..      ..       ..    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Others                        9,686              ..     ..      ..      ..    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Prices
Export price index                  ..             ..     ..      ..   100.0  105.0  112.7  121.8  131.0  142.1
Import price index                 ..             ..      ..      ..   100.0  103.7  111.4  120.7  130.1  140.0
Terms of trade index                ..            ..      ..      ..   100.0  101.3  101.2  100.9  100.7  101.6
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1977    1978    1979    1985    1990                    1957-70  1970-79  1980-85
Exports                      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                       1.6      8.0       2.2
Energy                        ..    13.8    26.5       5.3      2.1                    ..        ..    -25.8
Other primary                 ..    39.7    30.5    34.2    31.1                       ..        ..       4.0
Manufactures                46.4    46.5    46.4    60.5    66.8                        ..       ..       9.7
Imports                      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                      2.3       9.4       4.2
Food                        23.9    18.6    18.7    19.3    17.6                       ..        ..       5.0
Petroleum                    0       0        0        0       12.2
Machinery and equipment   17.7    17.5    25.2    19.8    17.2                          ..       ..       4.0
Others                      58.4    63.9    56.1    60.9    53.0                       ..        ..       4.0
Share of Trade With /a       Share of Trade With                Share of Trade With
Industrial Countries (iT   Developing Countries (X)   Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
Direction of Trade            1960            1979         1960             1979              1960            1979
Exports                     14.0            51.0         25.0            39.0                (.)             3.0
Imports                       ..            82.8           ..            16.6                 .              0.6
/a Market and nonmarket.



ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                    Projected
Indicator                           1977    1978    1979    1980       1981    1982    1985
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                ..           ..       ..   21,056  23,174  31,954
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        8,050   9,745  13,987  17,900   19,037  20,785  28,334
Imports of goods and services                ..           ..            23,224  26,033  37,335
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.        7,627  11,399  17,266  20,968   22,691  25,383  36,083
Net transfers                           427     528      626     680       704     760      944
Current account balance                 911    -447  -1,528  -1,189   -1,464  -2,099  -4,437
Private direct investment                ..       ..      ..       ..      150     200      350
MLT loans (net)                          ..       ..      ..   2,110    1,600   1,957   4,136
Official                                                         ..    2,270   2,628   3,446
Private                                    ..           ..       ..     -671    -671      641
Other capital /a                                 ..       ..  -1,624       585       0        0
Change in reserves ("-" = increase)  -509       785    -673      703      -870     -58        0
International reserves                   . .              ..   7,382    8,252   8,310   8,310
of which:  gold                                ..       ..   5,120    5,120   5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports                   ..           ..     2.9       4.2     3.8      2.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements
Concessional loans                     ..
DAC                                          ..       ..
OPEC                                 ..
IDA                                   .
Other                               ..
Nonconcessional loans                  ..
Official export credits              ..
IBRD /c
Other multilateral                   ..      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         ..       ..      ..   3,400/b
Official                             ..      ..       ..      /b
Private                              ..      ..       ..      /b
Undisbursed debt                       ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payments                 ..      ..
Interest                            ..       ..
Payments as % exports GNFS             ..      ..
Average interest rate on new
loans (%)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)                                ..      .        .       .
/a  LMF finance may substitute (on similar terms) for some of the official inflows shown above,
especially during 1982-85.
/b  Total cannot be allocated between official and private.  For projection purposes, the entire
end-1980 stock of debt is assumed to have been private.



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                 $ million
Credit                                              ---- Amount ---------
Number     Year      Borrower        Purpose    IBRD   IDA    Undisbursed
2021        1981  People's Republic  Univ.       100.0  100.0    200.0
1167                 of China         Develop-
ment
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1982)
None.
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021        University Development Project $100.0 million loan
Credit No.1167       and $100.0 million credit of November 4, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Implementation is behind schedule because the nonavailability of IDA funds
delayed loan/credit signing by almost five months. The loan/credit agreements
were signed in November 1981 and became effective in February 1982. Good
progress has been made since then, and the first stage of equipment procure-
ment (almost half the total) has already begun. Disbursements will in turn be
delayed by half a year.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
NORTH CHINA PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project         : 6 months
(b)  The project was prepared by : The Government and IDA
(c) Date of first presentation
to IDA                      : July 1980
(d) Date of first mission to
consider the project        : November 1980
(e)  Appraisal mission             : October 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations  : April 1982
(g)  Planned credit effectiveness:  October 1982
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
The Borrower's State Council shall have approved the project,
the Development Credit Agreement, and the Project Agreements.
B. Other Conditions
(a) the provincial governments would ensure that adequate power or fuel
supply is made available to the project areas (para. 72);
(b) by August 31 of each year, detailed work plans for the follow-
ing year would be prepared for IDA review (para. 80);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) the county and provincial PMOs would maintain separate accounts
for the project. These would be audited annually by auditors
which are expected to be from the Provincial Bureau of Finance.
The project's audited accounts together with the auditor's report
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 87);
(d) the central Project Management Office would be adequately staffed
at all times with experienced and qualified personnel. IDA would
be consulted about any replacement of the Project Coordinator
(para. 94);
(e) the soil and water studies would be carried out and a report
presenting the main findings would be submitted to IDA for review
not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 103); and
(f) the North China Plain Agricultural Study would commence by July 1,
1983 (para. 103).



I
I



IBRD 16135
u s I c E0                                                                                                                 72   J-.rh-/               JANUARY 1982
MONGOLI_   5                                                                                 ' j                        A      /v
4309
A                                                                      -g~~~~~~~~~~~     Onnnda.  CHINA
NORTH CHINA PLAIN
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
A     PROJECT AREAS
H .X   ;- - _   NORTH CHI NA PLAIN BOUNDARY
,'  ~     ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        RO~riRADS
VI1ET   NANI   ,,,- \M    -.--ng                                            u--                                                    RAIL WAYS
RIVERS
MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
________S.______A_<C_________------                                                                                   -      PROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES
' 7. -'\ X hf \_ DU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLES E
~~~~~~~3it0  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~'  0' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0'Y~~~~~~0                                              s
<   _; _  4  _ -  <    ;         >         >     {?            , t          ra;1  i?nVungang                  r ccept?nce f?f ?uCt btat/ld?rie??.~~~~~~~he epor towhic le attche
-_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d net ;my on th pen oth
tr<                                                                                              \ > WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q,,_ d-
Wh..d h.k bodp,tpfdtbylh
anyl terrtor or any-edorsemen
orecc_t_no of ou. heod-re
240  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl40q    ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     lh  p   ~ Nhi ...hd
Th. d-i-6- -d -d h
To xo~,~"  ToX,nio00  80 <   (To~o'e  To eft, ToSre,   18   ToNasino       T Zheo,en           TO oaoi-oo    o -  tth-



