OEFICIAL
OCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 11( - CHA
Shandong Project Agreement
(North China Plain Agricultural Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated         3             )        , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER        M ( -
SHANDONG PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGRELEMENT, dated     5 ck_                  , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SHANDONG PROVINCE (hereinafter called Shandong).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of China (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-four million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 54,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Shandong agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Shandong, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shandong shall carry out and shall cause
to be carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement located in Shandong with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose, including without limitation adequate
electrical power or fuel supply for tubewells.


﻿-2-
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which
Shandong is financially responsible, Shandong shall: (i) make
adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation
of such part; and (ii) take appropriate steps for the operation
and maintenance of the facilities and equipment provided under
the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03 (a) Shandong undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance or replacement of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by Shandong to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Shandong
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. With respect to that part of the Project for
which Shandong or any of its counties or agencies shall be
responsible: (a) Shandong shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Shandong: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to


﻿- 3 -
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefite to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Shandong shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) Shandong shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Shandong shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Shandong of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Shandong shall maintain, or cause its agencies
and counties to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices its operations and financial condition in respect of acti-
vities related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Shandong shall in respect .l activities re-
lated to the Project: (i) have its accounts ana financial state-
ments for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-


﻿-4-
ing such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Shandong shall, at all times, operate, main-
tain, renew and repair, or cause to be operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired, in accordance with appropriate agricultural
and management practices, the facilities and equipment provided
under that portion of the Project located in Shandong.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Shandong thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If   the Development   Credit Agreement    terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Shandong of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
ticn or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-5-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Shandong:
Shandong Provincial Agricultural
Department
Chia Fang Bridge
Tsinan, China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Shandong may be taken or executed by the
Director of the Province Project Management Office in Shandong
Province or such other person or persons as such Director shall
designate in writing, and Shandong shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
represantatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   U        day of      ,e
198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


