IPP74
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project (DFIMDP)
GUIDELINES FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT
Objectives
These guidelines are designated to set out the policies and procedures to ensure that
Indigenous Peoples will benefit from the subprojects to be Supported by the
DFIMDP and to avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous peoples
caused by subprojects and other activities supported by the project. The priority
given to the Indigenous Peoples is in line with the Indigenous Peoples Rights Act
(RA 8371) and the World Bank Operational Directive (OD 4.20) to ensure that the
development process fosters fuU respect for their dignity, cultural integrity and
human rights.
Defitition
"Indigenous Peoples" will be used to refer to cultural conmmunities, tribal groups
that can be identified in a particular geographical area by the presence in varying
degrees of the following characteristic:
* A close attachment to their ancestral territories and the natural resources in
these areas;
* Self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct
cultural group;
* An Indigenous Language, often different from the national language;
* Presence of customary social and political institutions; and
* Primary subsistence-oriented production
Guiding Principles
The DA RFU will ensure that the underserved communities where Indigenous
Peoples within the DFIMDP Subproject areas are residing will be given high priority
that all projects will avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects of any activity or
subproject supported by DFIMDP and that the rights of the Indigenous People to
their land and their culture will be respected.
Strategyfor Local Participation
The Project will ensure that the strategy for addressing the issues pertaining to the
indigenous peoples must be based on 'informed participation" of the indigenous
peoples themselves.
The barangay or municipal tribal council where quantified (based on eligibility
criteria for subprojects) will be the preferred applicant and/or subproject proponent.
FILE C OPY



If the applicant is not the tribal council for the affected indigenous people, the
applicant by itself or assisted by the sponsoring agency will ensure that the tribal
councils affected by any subproject are properly consulted. Recognizing that the
indigenous peoples have their customs and traditions, such consultations should be
carried out according to their customs and traditions.
In addition to the applicant and/or the sponsoring agency and the indigenous
peopIes affected, the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) through
its Regional Office or its duly designated representative should be present in these
meetings.
The objective of the meeting is to inform the villagers about the design of the
subproject. If any member of the tribe or the tribe as a whole will be affected, they
must be informed of their rights to participate in the benefits resulting from the
projects; their right to compensation (if any) of their properties that are affected and
their right to participate in changing the design if it violates any rights of the tribe or
is contrary to the traditions and cultural practices of their tribe. The meetings with
the members of the tribe conducted for this purpose wllU be properly documented:
The documentation will include the following:
* Design of the Project (Including location, process of implementation);
* Intended beneficiaries and their roles;
. In case of land/assets, acquisition, names of affected persons and
details about the proposed nature and level of compensation to the
tribe and to the families that are directly affected;
* How these arrangements can be documented;
* List of complaints (if any) raised by directly affected persons or any
member of the indigenous tribe that will be affected;
* Maps or other instruments that the IPs can understand (showing
affected areas and replacement areas) will be attached.
The documentation if necessary or if so requested will be written in the dialect that
the specific tribe can understand. (Since many of the tribal languages are spoken
rather than written, the language to be used should be agreed on between the tribal
leaders and the applicant)
The   applicant/sponsoring  agency   shall  provide  a   copy    of  the
Minutes/documentation of the meetings to all members of the tribal council and the
affected persons and secure their signatures or thumb marks to indicate that they
confirm that the minutes capture the agreements reached during these meetings. The
applicant/sponsoring agency should have further discussions with them regarding



the minutes to ensure that those affected (even those who are not literate) will have a
clear idea of what is in the documentation of the meeting. The applicant should
invite representatives of the NCIP or other organizations acceptable to the
indigenous peoples (e.g., appropriate NGOs) who can facilitate communication.
Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities
The RFU will endeavor to incorporate indigenous knowledge into project
approaches and engage proponent LGUs/Association to qualified professionals who
will review technical descriptions so that appropriate indigenous knowledge can be
used where feasible and to avoid or mitigate any adverse effect on be indigenous
peoples.
Where a subproject is located within (or passes through) the ancestral domain of any
indigenous tribe, the consent of this should be secured. The tribe should also be
consulted to ensure that their rights (as outlined in no.2 above) wiU not be violated
and that they be compensated for the use of any part of their domain in a manner
that is acceptable to the tribe. The compensations can come in the following forms:
Replacement land with and equaIly productive plot or other equivalent productive
asset;
. Materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures to be
demolished;
* Replacement of damaged or lost crops at market value; and
* Other mutually acceptance in kind compensation.
Subproject Approval
In the event that a subproject involves land acquisition that wifl adversely impact
Indigenous Peoples, the DFIMDP shall:
* Require that the agreed upon guidelines for compensation for land or
assets acquisition be followed (see Operations Manual);
. Not approve the subproject unless the applicant/sponsoring agency
can present the documentation of the consultations and the
corresponding agreement; and
* Not allow work to start until compensations and/or rituals if they are
required have been completed to the satisfaction of the indigenous
tribe affected (and the same should be properly documented).
Complaints and Grievances
All complaints shall be discussed and negotiations should be carried out in the
community where the affected Indigenous Peoples are properly represented. Where
necessary, the proponent LGU/association will provide assistance so that the rights
of the Indigenous Peoples are protected. If this fails, the complaints and grievances



or any alleged irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the
affected tribe to the RFU DFIMDP Review Committee. The Review Committee may
recommend to suspend implementation works of the subproject until the grievance
is addressed.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The applicant or proponent LGU/association (if there is one) will provide copies of
the minutes of the meeting and evidence of agreement with indigenous people
(including benefits to the member of their tribe) to the external supervisors as well as
monitors from the fund.
The fund will consult affected members of the Indigenous Peoples to identify
benefits and/or adverse effects on the members of these groups.



