Report No. PID11477
Project Name             PHILIPPINES-Philippines:  Diversified...
Farm Income and Market Development Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Agricultural marketing and trade (70-);
Sub-national government administration (30%)
Project ID               P075184
Implementing Agency
Address: Elliptical Road, Diliman,
Quezon City, Philippines
Contact Person: Director Cecilia Astilla
Tel: (63-2) 9288741 ext 207
Email: madir@eudoramail.com
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        September 20, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 11, 2003
Bank Approval Date       October 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Philippine agriculture sector, which contributes some 20%- of GDP and
accounts for 40%- of the labor force, is at the center of the government's
strategic program for enhancing economic growth and employment, reducing
poverty and improving the peace and order situation. While overall poverty
rates in the country have declined, rural poverty has remained at around
44%- and food insecurity has persisted. Moreover, beginning in the mid
1990s, the country became a net importer of food, the only one among major
ASEAN countries. The agricultural trade deficit has grown as a result of
the sector's inability to exploit expanding international markets and
opportunities. As the sector has come under increasing pressure from
imports, farmer and fisher incomes have actually decreased over the past
decade. Currently, diversification in agriculture and the level of market
integration and efficiency remains extremely poor. Producers are
constrained financially and have a poor perception of market demand. They
are generally price takers in a system dominated by a multitude of
middlemen and traders, each with their respective margins. The
prohibitively high cost of institutional credit for farmers, together with
policies precluding those in arrears from receiving new loans, is a major
impediment to agri-investment and entrepreneurship. Likewise, agribusiness
development is plagued with a complex array of regulations,
non-transparent bureaucracy and inefficient and costly freight charges,
which often protect vested interests. The average cost of transport and
logistics of agri-fishery products in the Philippines, for example, is
around 25-40%-, compared to 8-109- in developed countries and 15-25%- in
transitional economies like Egypt and China. Collectively, low farm
productivity and diversification, poor market integration and the high
cost of doing business in the Philippines mean that the country is falling
further behind other Asian competitors, even in primary products such as
rice and corn. Although a number of Government initiatives and "projects"
have been undertaken to stimulate agricultural growth and competitiveness
in the past, such interventions have not had the scope for tackling



critical constraints in a comprehensive way, nor, more importantly, for
stimulating private sector investment. Without growth in the rural areas,
the impact of Government's overall plans and targeted investments for
reducing rural poverty will not be realized. To underpin the ambitious
Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Plan outlined above, the
Government has been proactive in liberalizing trade in conformity with
GATT-WTO agreements. It has also initiated a number of structural reforms
and begun to implement a variety of programs such as the "High Value Crops
Program", and an Agribusiness Strategy and Action Plan which provides
funds for stimulating competitiveness through an Agricultural
Competitiveness Enhancement Fund (ACEF). The analytical base for such
programs and other needed reforms have been extensively researched through
a Global Competitiveness and Benchmarking Study, and a study on Improving
Governance for Agricultural Bureaucracy. Collectively, these reports
provide strong empirical evidence and analysis on the underlying reasons
for the continued loss of competitiveness of the Philippine agriculture
sector. They have also served to heighten government and private sector
awareness of the critical need to reorient public support to give much
greater emphasis to improving efficiencies in production, market processes
and product transformation, if the Philippines is to re-gain its
competitiveness.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project would be to stimulate
rural growth, employment and increase farmers' incomes through supporting
greater crop diversification and measures to enhance the competitiveness
of the sector through strengthening of market integration and efficiency.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As indicated above, the proposed reforms to be implemented under the
project are substantial, and in spite of the enabling AFMA legislation
having been passed in 1997, the DA has made little progress in its
implementation. The more difficult issues have not been tackled. In spite
of the widely recognized urgency for improving the business environment
for agribusiness, traders, farmers and fishers in the Philippines, there
is also fairly widespread resignation that, if left alone, progress will
be slow to materialize. Structural and attitudinal rigidities within the
DA have meant that implementation of the proposed reforms has been slow
and fragmented. Accordingly, there is widespread frustration amongst
producers and agribusiness, and a strong perception that the needed
reforms will be difficult to implement given the magnitude of change and
level of commitment needed to tackle difficult policy and institutional
issues. Strong support has therefore emerged in the process of
stakeholder consultations, for the Bank's involvement in the project. In
particular, the Bank's involvement through the specific instrument of a
SIM loan is widely seen to be critical in helping to catalyze and leverage
the long sought-after policy and institutional reforms that will be needed
to revitalize growth and competitiveness in the agriculture sector. It is
in this context that the Bank's support by way of a Sector Investment
Maintenance loan is widely viewed within government as a key instrument
for helping to leverage and sustain the much needed reforms. The Bank's
participation is also considered important for helping to build producer
and private sector confidence and active participation in the reform
process; a necessary condition for stimulating complementary investment in
the sector.
-2-



4. Description
The proposed interventions of the project will focus on providing support
both at the macro and micro levels for enhancing agricultural production
and market development. At the macro level, the institutional capacity of
the DA will be strengthened through implementation of various
institutional reforms aimed at improving existing system for planning and
resource allocation, the regulatory framework and its enforcement, and
support for market development. Supporting key agencies of the DA will be
supported to realign their functions and responsibilities and streamline
their systems and procedures to better support private sector-led
agricultural production and market development .These efforts would be
supplemented at the micro level with specific interventions which will
provide support to selected focus areas of the project, within the
framework of devolution and in keeping with the efficient delineation of
public and private sector provision of investments and resources.
Proposed interventions will concentrate on stimulating competitiveness and
investment in farm diversification in four Focus Areas where considerable
potentials already exist for further expansion and efficiency, as a basis
for developing other areas as experience is gained under the project. A
central feature of the strategic support for producers would be in
stimulating greater awareness of market issues, since most of the
country's small-scale producers are price-takers, being paid average
prices, which are currently insensitive to quality and safety
considerations. Based on consultation and guidance from the DA, these four
focus areas are: (1) Region 10: Bukidnon and Central Highlands of
Mindanao (corn, vegetables, horticulture, livestock); (2) Region 7: Cebu
and Negros Oriental provinces (fruits, mariculture); (3) Region 6: Panay
Island (aquaculture); and (4) Cordillera Administrative Region
(vegetables, fruits, horticulture) (CAR): La Trinidad Valley, Benguet.
These focus areas will be assisted to become showcases for successful
diversification of farm income sources through the strategic strengthening
and integration of production and market support linkages and
interventions. A third set of project interventions would involve
strengthening the integration of the macro and micro level interventions
through the strengthening of private sector input and oversight into the
implementation and monitoring of these proposed project interventions.
This will be done through providing strategic project support to (national
and local) private sector groups to strengthen their active role in policy
dialogue, consensus building, and political support for reforms among
public and private sector interests. National and local private sector
councils within and related to the sector will be supported , in order to
underpin and monitor critical reforms; catalyze and strengthen producer
associations and commodity groups to effect forward and backward
production and market linkages, trade promotion and analyze, propose and
pursue related policy and market advocacy actions. Finally, to facilitate
the implementation, monitoring and implementation of the project, support
for the strengthening of the AMAS to act as the project Coordinating
Office will be done.Below are the proposed types of interventions under
each of the planned components of the project:1. Institutional and
Capacity Strengthening of the Department of Agriculturen Reform and
computerization of the planning and financial management systems of the
DAn Setting up of systems and procedures, as well as enhancement of
staffing, training, laboratory facilities, vehicles and equipment of the
Bureau of Agricultural and Fisheries Products Standards (BAFPS)n
Establishment and implementation of a real-time market information system
-3 -



for agribusiness and marketing n Reform of the quarantine and sanitary and
phytosanitary service, including upgrading of training and facility
infrastructure n Capacity strengthening for the DA's Agribusiness and
Marketing Assistance Service in promoting market linkages and traden
Strengthening of agricultural production and marketing statistics
collection, analysis, and dissemination n Improvements in the enforcement
system for food and animal safety, and bio-safety regulations2.
Smallholder Agriculture Development and Market Infrastructure Supportn
Rehabilitation of farm- to-market roads in four focus areas n
Rehabilitation and construction of smallholder trading posts and market
collection centersn Support for development of post harvest/storage
facilitiesn Production of improved fish breeding stock and promotion of
its dissemination though the private sector n Promotion and adoption of
fishery technology development and dissemination n Upgrading fisheries
research facilities serving the focus areas n Propagation of improved
seed, and high quality planting material and promotion of its supply
through private outlets and nurseriesn Upgrading of horticultural research
facilities serving the focus areas n Promotion and adoption of
market-driven agricultural technology development and dissemination n
Promotion of upland, small-scale and participatory irrigation development
in support to diversified farming systemsn Capacity building for
organizational development of producer associations in the focus areas 3.
Strengthening private sector market linkages, grower associations and
trade promotionn Support to national private sector federations/groups for
catalyzing and strengthening private sector grower associations and
commodity groups to strengthen forward and backward linkages, trade
promotion and related advocacy actionsn Support to local private sector
federations/groups in the four focus areas for catalyzing and
strengthening private sector grower associations and local farmer
associations, to strengthen forward and backward linkages, product
promotion and related advocacy actions
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $35.00
IBRD $100.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $135.00
6. Implementation
The project would be the key instrument by which the DA would implement
the AFMA, and is seen as a flagship project for the Department of
Agriculture. As such, overall management of the project would be the
responsibility of the Executive Committee of DA, which is chaired by the
Secretary of Agriculture. The external, advisory, National Agriculture
and Fisheries Council (NAFC), comprised of distinguished private sector
individuals, would be charged with the special responsibility of providing
oversight to the project and facilitating its implementation through
legislative and private sector circles. Day-to-day management of the
project would be the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary for
Operations, who would chair a Technical Advisory Committee, already
established under a Special Order of the Secretary of Agriculture issued
in September 2001, to spearhead both the formulation and implementation of
the project. The Technical Advisory Committee would be charged with
providing guidance, ensuring timely implementation of key actions agreed
- 4 -



under the project, coordination across Bureaus, agencies and field units
of the DA, and ensuring active participation of the private sector. AMAS
would serve as the Secretariat to the Executive Committee of the DA and
would have a central role, both in coordinating the implementation of
Technical Advisory Committee's decisions, and in providing timely
feed-back and analysis for management action. A small project unit would
be established in AMAS to facilitate the day-to-day implementation of the
Project.
7. Sustainability
The project has been given a high priority by government, since it
addresses the fundamental reasons underlying the relatively poor
performance of the country's agriculture sector and loss of
competitiveness of agricultural products in domestic and international
markets. That said, some of the policy and regulatory reforms needed
involve deeply entrenched vested interests and traditional ways of doing
business, which will take time and sustained commitment from both public
and private sectors to resolve.    Accordingly, a pragmatic approach to
implementation is proposed, since it must be recognized that some actions
will take time to achieve, e.g., reorientation of the institutional
"production-oriented, rice and corn culture" of the DA , to a more
market-led prioritization of functions and support, involving a much wider
array of agricultural products. Likewise, programs designed to change
consumer demand through awareness of quality (food safety and nutritional
issues) will take time and sustained efforts to achieve.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons from implementation of the portfolio of relevance to the
proposed project are as follows:(a) Much remains to be done through policy
and structural reforms to meet the strategic objectives of the CAS in
regard to addressing the underlying reasons for the high levels of rural
poverty that persist in the Philippines. The GOP sector clients have also
expressed appreciation and a demand for continued Bank's assistance in
addressing these issues through non-lending and lending instruments, both
to help leverage the reforms and to ensure their sustained implementation.
The proposed project has been designed very much with this in mind. The
policy and institutional reforms proposed are fundamental for reversing
the declining competitiveness of Philippine agriculture, and for providing
income generating opportunities for rural communities. Moreover, the
linkages with the private sector to be established under the project have
been designed specifically to respond to the need for leveraging and
sustaining the proposed reforms. (b) Community-driven approaches are good,
but this should be done within the clear institutional context of
devolution, wherein LGUs play a critical role in facilitating these
approaches to ensure better chances of sustainability. Specific areas for
capacity building include technical as well as fiduciary aspects, to
ensure effective project management and to enhance accountability and
good governance. It is important that a strong institutional analysis be
done during project preparation in order to address the implementation
weaknesses of LGUs. In line with this experience, considerable effort is
proposed during the preparation phase of the project to work with the LGUs
in the Focus Areas to define the technical and investment needs of the
project, as well as the implementation and fiduciary aspects. The
proposed PHRD grant includes a sizeable TA component using local
consultants and NGOs to work with local communities and LGU units to
- 5-



develop the technical and market infrastructure needs of the local
communities in the Focus Areas. Moreover, pre-investment activities have
been initiated in one of the Focus Areas (Bukidnon and Central Highlands
of Mindanao) during project preparation, with the help of FAO under the
Special Programme for Food Security (SPFS). This is expected to provide
further acual on-the-ground experience in ways to strengthen the role and
capacity of LGUs and input these learnings in the design of the
project.(c) The construction and rehabilitation of basic small-scale rural
infrastructure, targeted to poor rural communities with a strong sense of
ownership to such local projects, is a valuable source of local
employment, and can help trigger other self-reliant strategies by local
communities. It is important that these small scale rural infrastructure
subprojects are prioritized by the communities and implemented by the
LGUs. However, in order for these small scale infrastructure to be
sustainable, practical O&M mechanisms need to be put into place and
participated in by the communities and LGUs themselves. As described in
(b) above, the design of the project using TA to be provided under the
PHRD grant and the FAO-SPFS, would give particular attention to working
with communities in identifying and building ownership in the proposed
market infrastructure to be developed under the project.(d) Limited
capacity of project management or coordination units has been a major
cause of lagging implementation and disbursements. PMOs/PCOs need to
ensure that they are able to provide guidance and support to the LGUs,
both in project management and implementation. Experience suggests it may
be better to tap existing GOP personnel as project staff, rather than
hiring external staff who are not used to regular government rules and
procedures. More importantly, such an arrangement may ensure better
chances of institutionalization and sustainability of project innovations
and initiatives after termination of the project. New operations should
ensure that suitably qualified core staff (such as Project Manager, FMS,
Procurement, etc) are identified and assigned to the Project, and that a
sound and operational first year implementation plan is prepared prior to
negotiations. In response to this, the proposed project includes several
design features to address these important points, since sustainability of
the reforms proposed is the major risk facing the project. In particular,
the project has been mainstreamed from the outset as a flagship program of
the DA, in light of the profound reforms being proposed. It builds upon
existing organizational arrangements, structures and personnel so as to
help avoid being "projectized" or "put aside" as other projects/programs
and or administrations come along, as is frequently the case. The project
would also be designed with a high level of private sector oversight
through the National and Regional Councils for Agriculture and Fisheries
(NAFC & RAFC).(e) There is need for a consistent and complementary
approach to rural development issues by the various government agencies
and LGUs. The Government's attempt to promote "convergence" by DA, DENR,
and DAR has not worked very well in practice, mainly due to the strong
tendencies for each of the departments to manage their own programs and
funds, and varying views on how to adjust their roles in the context of
devolving their functions to LGUs. This experience is of particular
relevance to the project in regard to quarantine functions and proposed
interventions in the focus areas. Anomalies exist between the regulations
of the DA and DENR which add considerably to transaction costs for the
private sector and in some cases confiscation of goods by DENR although
cleared for quarantine purposes by the DA. The project would specifically
seek to address these anomalies. In terms of on-the-ground implementation
- 6 -



in the focus areas, active agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs) in
agraraian reform communities (ARCs) would be sought out as producer
partner groups. (f) Efforts to expand access to rural finance have been
particularly difficult, and the inability of the vast majority of the
country's small scale farmers and fishers to access institutional credit
is now a major obstacle to poverty alleviation efforts. Most of the
projects that include activities to expand access to rural finance are
experiencing implementation difficulties. Some of the underlying
constraints involve the difficulty by which the Government is able to
fulfill its agreed financial covenants with the Bank, and the overall less
than conducive policy environment which has led to very high cost of
money. Manifestations of the latter include high transaction costs
involved in accessing credit; uneven capacities of farmer and fisher
groups in coming up with sound technical and financial proposals,
inconsistencies in the implementation of EO 138 which aims to phase out
directed credit programs; etc. Hence, a more sustainable approach would
be to use Bank projects to facilitate improved access to rural finance by
strengthening the ability of financial intermediaries, farmer and fisher
groups and other borrowers to prepare financially viable loan projects, as
well as in working towards concrete ways to lessen transaction costs in
loan preparation and processing. In the case of low income target groups,
who have very limited experience in borrowing, rural finance programs need
to work with and through suitably qualified and good performing financial
intermediaries (e.g., NGOs, rural banks, successful cooperatives).
Accordingly, the proposed project would not provide additional credit, but
would help facilitate access by small scale farmers and fishers to
existing sources of formal credit. Likewise, support under the project
for the development of self-reliant grower and commodity associations
would help facilitate improved access to formal credit for their members.
The PHRD grant for project preparation also provides for a high level
consultation on the issues of credit, with a view to agreeing on a set of
necessary institutional reforms for resolving the current impasse
affecting many of the country's small-scale farmers and fishers.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project would include a component of
farm-to-market road rehabilitation in four Focus Areas where the potential
for significant improvements in farm outputs exist. Another component
would involve rehabilitation and/or construction of wholesale market
collection points and local trading posts where farmers and traders can
conduct business in a more efficient manner will need to be looked at from
an environmental aspect. The environmental impact of these works would be
developed as part of the preparation, and provision for this has been
included in the work to be undertaken through the PHRD project preparation
grant. Apart from the infrastructure interventions where environmental
issues need to be addressed, the project would, over time, be expected to
lead to significant environmental improvements. Firstly, to the extent
that the project would seek to increase production of more quality and
diverse products in response to market signals, it will lead to more
knowledge on intensive farming and improved farmer capacity to manage
their farmlands and crop rotations more sustainably. Secondly, the
project will lead to improvements that will be beneficial to the
environment through its focus on improving the incentive and regulatory
framework for enhancing quality, particularly lowering of pesticide
- 7-



residues, and reducing waste from post-harvest losses (currently 30-40w of
commodity volume is wasted).
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (63-2) 637 5855 ext 3026
Fax:   (63-2) 637 5879
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 27, 2002.
-8-



