                                            Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 27662-PH




                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                        PROPOSED LOAN

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$60MILLION

                                             TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                             FORTHE

        DIVERSIFIEDFARMINCOMEAND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                           May26,2004




RuralDevelopment andNaturalResources Sector Unit
East Asia andPacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization.

                                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate EffectiveMay 24,2004)



                                      CurrencyUnit  =    Peso(PhP)
                                            E Peso = US$0.018
                                            US$1    =    PhP55.85

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                          Government: January 1      -    December31

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
AFC      Agricultural andFisheryCouncil
AFIS     Agriculture andFisheries Information Service
AFMA     Agriculture andFisheriesModernizationAct
AFMIS    Agriculture andFisheriesMarketInformation System
AGMARIS  Agriculture Market Information Service
AMAS     Agribusiness andMarketingAssistance Service
ARMM     Autonomous Regionof MuslimMindanao
AT1      Agricultural Training Institute
BAFPS    Bureauof Agriculture and FisheriesProductsStandards
BAR      BureauofAgricultural Research
BAS      Bureauof Agricultural Statistics
BFAR     Bureauof FisheriesandAquatic Resources
BPHRE    Bureau of Post Harvest Research andExtension
BPI      Bureau of PlantIndustry
BSP      BangkoSentral ngPilipinas
BSWM     Bureauof Soils andWater Management
BTr      BureauofTreasury
CAR      CordilleraAdministrativeRegion
         CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
co
CFAA
         CentralOffice
CPAR     CountryProcurementAssessment Report
DA       DepartmentofAgriculture
DBCC     DevelopmentBudgetCoordinatingCommittee
DBM      DepartmentofBudgetandManagement
DENR     Departmentof EnvironmentandNaturalResources
DFIMDP   Diversified FarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject
DOF      Departmentof Finance
DOST     Departmentof ScienceandTechnology
ECC      EnvironmentalComplianceCertificate
EMB      EnvironmentalManagementBureau
EMP      EnvironmentalManagementPlan
EU       EuropeanUnion
FA0      FoodandAgriculture Organization
FM       FinancialManagement
FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report
FMS      FinancialManagementService
FPA      FertilizerandPesticideAuthority
GAD      Gender andDevelopment
GATT-WTO GeneralAgreement on Tariffs andTrade- World Trade Organization
GCB      Government CommercialBank
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GMO      GeneticallyModified Organism
GOP      Govemmentof the Philippines
I A      ImplementingAgency
ICC      InvestmentCoordinatingCommittee

                                                                    FOROFFlCIAL USEONLY
          IEE        Initial Environmental Examination
          IPS        IndigenousPeoples
          IPM        IntegratedPest Management
          IPRA       IndigenousPeoples Republic Act
          ISDS       IntegratedSafeguardData Sheet
          ISF        Irrigation Service Fees
          ITCAF      InformationTechnology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries
          JBIC       Japan Bank fqr International Cooperation
          LBP        Land Bank of the Philippines
          LG         Local Government
          LGU        Local Government Unit
          M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
          MANCOM     Management Committee
          M A 0  '   Municipal Agricultural Officer
          MDFO       Municipal DevelopmentFundsOffice
          MENRO      Municipal Environment and Natural ResourceOfficer
          MOA        Memorandumof Agreement
          MRDP       Mindanao Rural DevelopmentProject
          MTEF       Medium Term ExpenditureFramework
          MTPDP      Medium Term Philippine DevelopmentPlan
          NAFC       National Agriculture and FisheriesCouncil
          NCA        Notice of Cash Allotment
          NCAA       Non Cash Allotment Advice
          NCB        National Competitive Bidding
          NCIP       National Commissionon IndigenousPeoples
          NEDA       National Economicand DevelopmentAuthority
          NG         National Government
          NGAS       New Govemment Accounting System
          NGO        Non-Govemment Organization
          NIA        National Irrigation Authority
          NIN        National InformationNetwork
          NMIC       National Meat InspectionCommission
          NMU        National Marketing Umbrella
          NSC        National Sectoral Committees
          NWRB       National Water ResourcesBoard
          O&M        Operation and Maintenance
          OM         OperationsManual
          PAB        Project Advisory Board
          PCO        Project Coordination Office
          PDS        Project DevelopmentService
          PHRD       Japan Policy and Human Resources DevelopmentFund
          PMED       Program Monitoring and Evaluation Division
          POWS       Programof Works
           PSW       Procurement for Small Works
          QBS        Quality-based Selection
          QCBS       Quality and Cost-Based Selection
           RA 9184   Republic Act 9184 (Procurement Law)
           RED       Regional ExecutiveDirector
           RFU       Regional Field Unit
           RPAB      Regional ProjectAdvisory Board
           RPCO      Regional Project Coordination Office
          RTWG       Regional Technical Working Group
          SIM        Sector Investmentand MaintenanceLoan
          SOE        Statement of Expenses
          SPCMAD
          sss        Special Projects Coordination and ManagementAssistance Division
                     Single-SourceSelection


                                                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                     Country ManageriDirector:      Robert Vance Pulley, EACPF
                                               Sector Manager:      Rahul Raturi, Sector Manager, EASRD
                                            Task Team Leader:       Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron,EASRD


This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
[withoutWorld Bank authorization.                                                                  -


                                                      PHILIPPINES
                DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................  1
  1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                1
  2. Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                     2
  3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                2

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................    3
  1. Lending instrument.............................................................................................................              3
  2. Program objective and Phases ............................................................................................ 3
  3. Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                               3
  4. Project components .............................................................................................................             3
  5. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                6
  6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                              7

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................     7
  1. Partnership arrangements....................................................................................................                  7
  2. Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                               7
  3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomeshesults ..................................................................                               7
  4. Sustainabillty.......................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                   8
  5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.,...............................................................                            8
  6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants.................................................................................                          9

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................      10
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                       10
  2. Technical...........................................................................................................................         11
  3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................        12
  4. Social.................................................................................................................................      12
  5. Environment......................................................................................................................            13
  6. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................              14
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                        14

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                               .........................................................     15

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                     .................17
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                      ........................................................................        19

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................        27

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................         37

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................         38

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................    44

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................         51

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                  .............................................................................        57

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................         62

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................       66

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                .................................................................................        68

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................        69

Annex 14: Country at a Glance        .................................................................................................         72



MAP
IBRDNo.33080

                                          PHILIPPINES
              DIVERSIFIEDFARMINCOMEAND MARKETDEVELOPMENT

                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
                                            EASRD

Date: May 26, 2004                               Team Leader: Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron
Country Director: Robert V. Pulley               Sectors: Agriculturalmarketing andtrade
Sector ManagerDirector: Rahul RatudMark          (70%);Sub-national government administration
D.Wilson                                         (30%)
                                                 Themes: Ruralmarkets (P);Rural non-farm
                                                 income generation (P);Decentralization
                                                 (S);Trade facilitation andmarket access (S)
Project ID: PO75184                              Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                 Assessment
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and        Safeguard screening category: Limitedimpact
Maintenance Loan
                                   ProjectFinancingData
[XILoan      [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 60.00
Pronosedterms: Fixed SnreadLoan




INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR                              50.16               9.84           60.00
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                             59.87                9.84          69.71

Borrower: Republic ofthe Philippines
ResponsibleAgency:
Department of Agriculture, Office of the Secretary, DAYElliptical Road, Diliman, Quezon City
Philippines, Tel: (63-2) 9288741 ext. 222 & 212




Expected effectivenessdate: October 1,2004
Expected closing date: June 30,2009

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref PAD A.3                                                                                 [           No

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref PAD D.7                                                                                  [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                 [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                                ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref PAD C.5                                                                                  [XIYes [ ]No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref PAD D.7                                                                                  [XIYes     No

Project development objective Ref PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3

The objective o f the project i s to assist the Government o f the Philippines (GOP) to strengthen the
capacity o f its Department of Agriculture (DA) to provide market-oriented services to increase
agricultural competitiveness and rural incomes. The project i s part o f the Government's long-term
developmental objective (i)  to transform its Departmento f Agriculture into a more service and market-
oriented agency; and (ii) to arrest and reverse the declining competitiveness o f the agriculture and
fisheries sector by creating better conditions for agribusiness diversification and productivity-enhancing
investments by the private sector.
Project descriptionRef PAD B.4, TechnicalAnnex 4

Five components reflecting key gaps inDA's operations would be supported as described below:
  1. Support for Market Development Services (US$17.16 Million): This component would support
service functions respondingto requests for better market information and services inbuildingmarket
linkages between and among growers, traders, processors and exporters country-wide.
  2. Market Development Investments (US$22.25 Million): DA resource allocation for investments in
rural roads and other rural infrastructure would be strengthenedby sharpening the selection, approval and
implementation criteria and procedures, to ensure more demand-driven, market-orientedinvestments are
supported, primarily through LGUs and producer groups.
  3. Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development (US$ 17.33 Million):
A key thrust o fthe project would be strengthening implementationcapacity o f DA'sregulatory services,
particularly inensuring that international standards for safety and quality are met.
  4. Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination (US$9.66 Mil1ion):The project will
provide fundingfor modifying and strengthening implementation o fthe DA'scompetitive research grants
scheme for strategic, demand-driven agricultural researchpriorities.
  5, EnhancingBudget Resource Allocation and Planning (US$2.72 Million): The project would support
the government-wide initiative on improvement o f public expenditure management, a process that seeks
to improve efficiencies inpublic resource allocation and utilization and better linkages betweenplanning
and budgeting.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Involuntary Resettlement, Indigenous
Peoples.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref PAD C.6
Boardpresentation: None.
Loadcredit effectiveness: None.
____I___.                 "_                  -_l_--___l_

Conditions o f Disbursement:
   N o withdrawals will be made inrespect o f a Competitive Research Grant (under Category 1o f the
   Loan) unless and untilthe Competitive ResearchGrant Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
   duly adoptedby the DA. Similarly, no withdrawals will be made inrespect o f a Sub-grant under the
   Market Development InvestmentComponent (under Category (2) o fthe Loan), unless and untilthe
   Operational Manual and the ImplementationProcedures, all satisfactory to the Bank, have been duly
   adopted by the DA (ref. LA Schedule 1, Part A, paras. 3a and 3b).

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
a) DA will adopt and thereafter implement the Operational Manual and the ImplementationProcedures
   for the selection, approval and supervision o f sub-projects under the Market Development Investment
   Component, ina manner satisfactory to the Bank (ref. LA Schedule 5, para.2a)
b) DA will adopt and thereafter implement the Competitive ResearchGrant Manualinthe selection,
   approval and supervision o f research sub-projects, ina manner satisfactory to the Bank (ref. LA
   Schedule 5, para 2b).
c) DA will not alter any provision o f the Operational Manual and Implementation Procedures for the
   selection, approval and supervision o f sub-projects under the Market Development Investment
   Component, and the Competitive Research Grant Manual without the prior concurrence o f the Bank
   (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 2c).
d) ByMarch31o f eachyear, commencingin2005, the DA would annually review withthe DBM,
   NEDAandthe Bank, how its planandbudget submission for the followingyear reflects plans for
   allocatingresources in support o f achieving the goals o f AFMA. This review would not substitute for
   the existing presentation and review processes of the DBM(ref. LA Schedule 5, para 7).
e) By December 31,2004, a Special Order or similar instruction would be issued, to establish and
   thereafter operationalize the AFMIS (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 3).
f) ByMarch31,2005, a Special Order or similar instructionwould be issuedre-definingthe role o fAT1
   as being primarily responsible for strategic planning, coordinating and fundingo f training and
   information dissemination, inline with the goals o f AFMA (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 6).
g) By May 31,2005, DAwould develop and thereafter implement an Action Planto rationalize, and
   improve the cost-efficiency o f the quarantine Services o f BPI, BFAR and BAI(ref. LA Schedule 5,
   para 5).
h)ByJune 30,2005, the DAwould develop andthereafter implement anActionPlanto rationalizeand
   strengthen the operations and maintenance (0& M)o f laboratories needed to service DA'sregulatory
   system (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 4).
i)BySeptember30,2006, DAwouldundertakeandsubmitanextemalmid-termevaluationin
   collaboration with NEDA and DBMon the achievement o fproject objectives and ways to strengthen
   implementation (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 12b and 12c).
j)By September 30,2008, DAwould undertakeandsubmit an extemalterminal evaluation conducted
   under the overall direction o f the NEDA, incollaboration with DBM, o f the Project's effectiveness
   and on ways to sustain the gains achieved under the project (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 12dand 12e.)


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues

The Philippines has consistently been among the poorer performing economies inAsia. Over the last
decade, GDP growth per capita has been considerably lower than for the Asia region as a whole. Weak
economic performance has, inturn, constrained the ability o f the country to reduce poverty. The
contribution o f the agricultural sector to GDP has declined over the 1990s, with serious implications for
poverty reduction inrural areas where the majority of the poor population live. A large part o f the
population i s rural, many o f who are directly dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. An estimated
50% o frural households live below the poverty line. As rural households depend heavily on agriculture
for their livelihoods, the performance o f the sector i s vital for their well-being. Performance, however, has
been poor inrecent years.

Agriculture i s at the core o f government policy for economic growth and poverty reduction. However, it
i s confronted with a challenge to transfonn its traditional public sector-led focus on production and
supply-driven incentives, to a more private sector, market-oriented approach through which the sector can
respondto expanding opportunities for agricultural development and raise incomes for small farmers.
Although the domestic market i s slowly becomingmore sophisticated and trade liberalization under the
World Trade Organization (WTO) has opened new opportunities, the Philippines' competitive edge inits
key commodities (rice, com, sugar and coconuts) has been slippingand few new agricultural products
have emerged, where the country can compete effectively inthe world markets.

T o reverse the declining competitiveness o f agriculture and harness growing opportunities inglobal trade,
there i s broadrecognitionthat agriculture will needto modernize and be much more market-oriented.
Thisis already reflectedinlegislationthroughthe 1997 Agriculture andFisheries Modernization Act
(AFMA),which prescribes urgent measures to modernize agriculture and fisheries to enhance
profitability and prepare the sector for the challenges o f globalization. Inspite o fthis, policy and
institutional distortions have made market and price signals weak and inefficient, marketing costs are
inordinately high, and there i s relatively little private sector investment invalue-addition and post harvest
processing. A critical area o f weakness lies inthe Department o f Agriculture (DA), where there i s a clear
need for long overdue institutional and public expenditure reforms. Critical functions relating especially
to market development, market information and implementation o f regulatory functions have been
severely under funded for a number o f years and this has contributedto the continued underdevelopment
of the sector. There i s little congruence betweenthe plans and programs o f the DA and its annual
planning and budgetingprocess. Likewise, little progress has been made inimplementing the actions
prescribed by AFMA inhelping the sector modernize and become more competitive, while bilateral and
multilateral assistance i s not effectively integratedwith regular programs, resulting inpoor sustainability
o f investments.

Most public expenditure for the sector i s focused on rice and corn production, with residual amounts only
for core functions underpinning market development and support for commodities with potential for
value-addition. Consequently, relatively little research and development on highvalue products i s taking
place, market information systems for these commodities are virtually nonexistent, and implementation o f
quarantine, food and bio-safety standards are both poorly defined and implemented. This i s persistently
happening, despite rejections and detentions o f Philippine exports inforeign markets, which amount to
around a thousand cases annually, undermining the reputation o f Philippine products and limitingfuture
market expansion. The traditional production focus on rice and corn has also meant that the vast potential
for harnessing the diversified production capacities o f small-scale farming and fishing has received
inadequate support, such that linkages to domestic and international markets and agro-processors are still
poorly developed. Added to this, there i s little research inhigh-value products, market information

systems are almost nonexistent and quarantine, food and bio-safety standards are poorly defined and
inadequately implemented. The sector i s also faced with broader issues beyond the mandate o f the DA.
Trade distortions, highinternal transport costs and the reluctance o f banks to provide credit for
agriculture-related investments add enormously to the costs o f doing business and have been a major
impediment to private sector investment infarming and agribusiness. As a result, agriculture remains
stagnant, employment and income generation inrural areas have been limited and producers have been
increasingly unable to compete with quality imports.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Inspite ofthe clear needto modernize the agriculture sector, little progress hasbeenmade since the
enactment o f AFMA in 1997. Institutional and attitudinal rigidities within the DA have meant that it has
not addressed key institutional and policy reformissues for it to become more market-oriented. There i s
widespread perception, especially inthe private sector, that the critical changes cannot occur inthe DA
without external impetus, given severe fiscal difficulties and the "fire-fighting" mode o f operation this has
forced upon successive administrations. Inaddition, within the DA, there i s a broad-basedrecognitiono f
the needfor change. Inthe absence o freform, the existing system o f resource allocation along special
programs and commodities, with limited management input and oversight, will continue to perpetuate a
production focus, inefficiencies inresource use and gross under fundingo f core functions needed to
support a more modern and competitive agriculture sector. Accordingly, the Bank's involvement through
a Sector Investmentand Maintenance (SIM) loan instrument, presents an opportunity for strategic
leverage on the operations o f the DA to help initiate the process o f change. The project buildson the
engagement o f the Bank and the DA on rural development issues over the past 5 years, through which the
Bank has played a catalytic role inassisting the DA face complex reform issues, and inhelping local
governments be more effective insupporting poor rural communities. It would also help implement
government-wide initiatives o f the Department o f Budget and Management (DBM) and the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) on improving public expenditure management designed
to address sector expenditure issues and improve the linkbetweenplanning and budgeting according to
core functions and major final outputs.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

Inlinewiththe MediumTermPhilippineDevelopmentPlan(MTPDP), the proposedprojectwould assist
the Government implement its policy o f modernizing the agriculture and fisheries sectors, and indoing so
meet the challenges o f growing globalization and trade liberalization. The project i s part o f the
Government's long-term developmental objective (a) to transform its Department o f Agriculture into a
more service and market-oriented agency; and (b) to arrest andreverse the declining competitiveness o f
the agriculture and fisheries sector by creating better conditions for agribusiness diversification and
productivity-enhancing investments by the private sector. The project i s seen as fundamental for
underpinning the broader objectives o f economic growth and poverty reduction, which form the core o f
the Bank's assistance to the Philippines. More specifically, the 2003-2005 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) requires the Bank to sharpen its non-lending and lending support to address the declining
competitiveness o f Philippine agriculture, which mustbe reversed ifagricultural growth, on-and off-farm
employment creation, andrural poverty reduction are to be achieved. Accordingly, the proposed project
would support much needed institutional changes inthe DA,necessary for it to become more service- and
market-oriented; critical ingredients inwhat must be a muchbroader set o f initiatives by Government to
reverse the declining competitiveness o f the agriculture sector.




                                                       2

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

A S I M loanis considered the most appropriate instrument to provide the requiredsupport to the DA
budget and introduce changes to make it more service-and market-oriented. Through this instrument,
loan funds would be used to support core functions o f the DA, which have previously receivedinadequate
funding,andto introduce institutional changes onhow DA can strengthenthe effectiveness ofitspublic
investments and interventions. Importantly, this loan would assure the availability o fresources to support
a portion o f the DA's annual plan and budget for its core functions related to market development,
technology and research dissemination and quality assurance. Moreover, the S I M Loan instrument would
help facilitate the change inthe public expenditure system o f the DA, through which its expenditures,
policies and institutional performance can be brought inline with the Philippines' development priorities
on agricultural modernization and competitiveness. The instrument would, therefore, facilitate the DA's
institutional capacity to plan, implement and monitor its expenditure and investment program to be more
service- and market-oriented. Moreover, the instrument i s fiscally responsive, given the present
budgetary constraints of the Philippine government, since it is designed to be within the existing and
plannedbudget envelope o f the DA.

2. ProgramobjectiveandPhases

Not applicable

3. Projectdevelopmentobjective andkey indicators

The objective o f the project i s to assist the Government o f the Philippines (GOP) to strengthen the
capacity o f its Department o f Agriculture to provide market-oriented services to increase agricultural
competitiveness and rural incomes. Given the deeply entrenched nature o f many areas requiring reform,
thisprocess o finstitutionaland attitudinal change will take time and sustainedeffort to achieve.
Expectedoutcomes, must therefore be modest, butwould include: (a) establishment o f an up-to-date
market information system servingproducers and traders in four focus areas, (b) a more transparent and
demand-based system by which DA supports market investments, (initially inthe four Focus Areas); (c)
streamlined and more effective regulatory services designed to ensure that Philippine agricultural
products meet international standards; (d) greater emphasis on market factors inthe design and
implementation o f DA's research and training programs; and (e) enhanced capacities for planning and
better prioritization o f budgetary resources for core functions o f the DA. Progress toward achieving these
project outcomes would be measured usingthe following indicators:


     0   Better client satisfaction with DA's delivery o f market information, development services and
         market related investments, and
     0   Increase inthe proportion o f budgetary resources allocated to DA's core functions dealing with
         (a) market information and development services; (b) safety and quality assurance regulatory
         systems; and (c) market-linked technology development and dissemination

4. Projectcomponents

The following five project components aim to address the objectives set out for the project:

         Component1: Support for MarketDevelopmentServices (US$17.16 Million):
Capacity o f the Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service (AMAS) would be strengthened to enable it to



                                                       3

provide more effective market assistance and collaborationinmarket promotion, trade fairs, etc., with the
private sector. AMAS' capacity to undertake analysis o f evolving markets and trends would also be
supported. Wealmesses inthe quality o f information, data analysis and information dissemination to
farmers, traders, exporters and agri-business interests would be addressed through support for
strengthening the core functions o f the Bureau o f Agricultural Statistics (BAS), the Information
Technology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries (ITCAF), the National Agriculture and Fisheries
Council (NAFC), the Agriculture and Fisheries Information Service (AFIS) and the Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI). Inparticular, the outputs o f these various agencies would be integrated through
establishment o f an Agriculture and Fisheries Market Information System (AFMIS), designed to provide
comprehensive, timely and accurate information to small and medium-scale growers, traders, processors
and exporters on prices and volumes traded inkey domestic markets. The DA would establish AFMIS by
December 31, 2004 with terms o f reference, satisfactory to the Bank. AFMIS would be implemented
initially innine provinces o f the four Focus Areas to be supported under the project, complemented with
community-based information dissemination systems aimed at making information available to various
types o f farmers/growers and the general community.

         Component 2: Market Development Investments (US$22.25 Million): DAresource
allocation for investments inruralroads and other rural infrastructure would be strengthenedby
sharpening the selection, approval and implementationcriteria and procedures, to ensure more demand-
driven, market-oriented investments are supported, primarily through local government units (LGUs)and
producer groups. An Operations Manual(OM) for preparation and implementation o f subprojects by
LGUsandPrivate Sector Groups, as well as ImplementationProceduresfor DA-RFUs,wouldbe adopted
bythe DA as a conditiono fdisbursement for this component. The Operations Manual follows national
government policies on cost sharing guidelines with LGUs and the private sector. For many small
farmers, lack o f farm-to-market roads, trading posts, post-harvest and agro-processing facilities etc., are
limitingmarket access and competition, greatly reducingtheir opportunity to diversify sources of farm
income and limitingsupplies o f farm produce on which vibrant agro-processing industries can be built.
Sub-grants will be provided within the framework o f local government devolution and agricultural sector
objectives for fostering greater public-private sector partnership. To enhance impact, the project will
initially fund investments in four focus areas with recognized potential for market development in
tradable commodities. These include Region 10 (Bukidnon; a large producer o f vegetables, fruits, corn
and livestock); Region 7 (Cebu and Negros Oriental; primarily producing vegetables, fruits and
mariculture); Region 6 (Iloilo and Panay Island: with particular attention to aquaculture), and the
Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR, a large producer o f vegetables and fruits). Other regions may be
includedas experience evolves under the project with the adoption o f the investment procedures
contained inthe Operations Manual. Subproject selection/prioritization and implementation processes
would include participatory mechanisms to ensure that various stakeholders inthe community are
engaged and that processes are transparent. Moreover, capacity buildinginterventionstargeted at
farmers/growers/fishers associations with the aim o f enabling these organizations to expand their reach to
more small-scale and medium-scale producers, as well as, women and men farmers shall be undertaken in
order to allow them to embark on more organized and synchronized production and marketing o f their
commodities. The membershipprofile o f organizations assisted inFocus Areas will be monitoredto
review the extent to which they grow and include broader farmer participation.

          Component 3: Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market
Development (US$17.33 Million): A key thrust o f the project would be strengthening
implementation capacity o f DA's regulatory services, particularly inensuringthat international standards
for safety and quality are met. Widespread frustrations with regulations stem mainly from the lack o f
transparency, cumbersome procedures and inconsistent implementation, rather than from the regulations
themselves. This has led to practices o fregulatory avoidance, the impact o f which has been added costs o f



                                                       4

doing business, highlevels o f rejections and detention o f exports and greater levels o frisk for investors in
the sector. Accordingly, the project would support the core functions o f DA agencies involved in
regulatory services, as well as the institutional strengthening o f the Bureau o f Agriculture and Fisheries
Products Standards (BAFPS). An important role for BAFPS under the project would be incoordinating
withthe other regulatory agencies to complete a review and action plan, aimed at rationalizing the
technical, physical and financial needs for the strengthening, operation and maintenance o f laboratories
neededto service the DA's overall regulatory system. All regulatory services lack access to certified
laboratory facilities and while the project includes support for this, expenditure o f loan proceeds for
laboratories would be guided by the outcome o f a review and action plan to be conducted by the DA by
June 30,2005. Budgets o f the following key regulatory agencies would be supported for strengthening
their core regulatory functions, i.e., the Bureauo f Plant Industry(BPI), the Bureau o f Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (BFAR), the Bureau o f Animal Industry(BAI),the Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
(FPA), and the National Meat InspectionCommission (NMIC). Quarantine functions o fBPI, BAIand
BFARwould be givenparticular attention. This would be facilitatedbya review and actionplanto be
undertaken by M a y 31, 2005 with a view to rationalizing and streamliningthe provision o f quarantine
services. BPI'Sfunctions inregardto increasing small-scale, farmer access to improved (certified) seeds
and horticultural planting material would also be supported through the expansion o f scion groves by BPI
for vegetatively propagated species, as well as training and facilitation aimed at significantly expanding
the number o f accreditedprivate sector operated seed farms, and nurseries country-wide.

         Component 4: Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination
(US$9.66 Million): Although technology development and dissemination must continue to play an
important role inmodernizing the agriculture sector, over the past five years, an average o f only 6% o f
DA's operational budget has been spent onresearch. Moreover, expenditures have focused almost
entirely on expanding production, with little provided for market-driven and post-harvest research in
commodities with recognizedmarket potential. Likewise, althoughbetter levels o f fundinghave been
provided for training (about lo%), this has been largely supply-driven. The project would seek to
leverage a change inthis focus by modifyingand strengthening implementation o f the DA's Competitive
Research Grants scheme, which has contracted inrecent years for lack o f funding.The need for
strengthening and rationalizingthe research system in other areas was considered beyond the scope o fthis
project. Support would be provided for targeted and competitively funded agriculturalresearch, with
priority given to developing technology that would contribute to the marketability o f products. The DA
would adopt a Competitive Grants Manual describing the evaluation and implementation criteria to be
used inmakingresearch sub-grants, as a condition o f disbursement for this component. The project would
also support a shift inthe role o f the DA's ATI, by phasing out its role as a direct provider o f training,
except for LGU extension workers, while strengthening its role in strategic planning, coordination and
fundingo ftraining. This would be formalized byMarch31,2005 through a Special Order or similar

on the experience o f the FAO-assisted technical assistance project inone o f the Focus Areas (Region lo),
instruction from the Secretary o f Agriculture. The nature o f training activities to be supported would build

which has shown the benefits from training that brings producers and buyers indirect contact to both
clarify market needs and facilitate forward contracts. Also, training would emphasize the proper use o f
chemicals and their disposal, to help mitigate the pesticide residues that continue to be pervasive in
Philippine agricultural products and a cause o f rejections on export markets. Through the partner-LGUs,
information about these training shall be made available even to farmers who are not affiliated to
organized growers/farmers groups. Moreover, both women and men farmers shall be encouraged to attend
these training. Participationto, and adoption o fthese training shall be tracked to enable DA to assess the
extent of reachand success o f these training. Technical assistance would be provided to help Bureau o f
Agricultural Research (BAR) more effectively implement Intellectual Property Rightsprovisions, an
important area for strengthening to promote better dissemination o f technology and greater private sector
involvement as certified outlets for improved seed and vegetative material.



                                                        5

         Component 5: Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning (US$2.72
Million): The project would support the government-wide initiative on improvement o fpublic
expenditure management, a process that seeks to improve efficiencies inpublic resource allocation and
utilization and better linkages between planning and budgeting. DBMguidelines have required that line
agency budgets be allocated according to Major Final Outputs (MFOs). The project will assist the DA in
malung the on-going transition to MFO-based budgeting, inorder to assist DA Management in facilitating
better efficiency and strategic oversight o f the scarce budgetary resources allocated to the DA.
Accordingly, the reconfigurationo f the budget would pave the way for the DA to overcome the chronic
disconnect between its annual plans and actual expenditures. A review o f DA's past expenditure patterns
over the past five years highlightsthis disconnect inthat market related development and information has
receivedonly some 2% o f the budget, technology development 6% and regulatory services 9%, whereas
irrigation has received 44% and direct production support 15% (see Annex 3). Accordingly, support will
be provided for (a) improving DA's medium-term and annual planning and budget system; (b) capacity
buildingandtraining to orient staff on MFO-basedbudget andplanning systems andprocedures, (c)
strengthening policy and advocacy for agricultural trade-related issues; and (c) strengthening monitoring
and evaluationinline with MFOs.To facilitate this process, by March 3 1o f each Fiscal year, the DA,
DBMandNEDA,wouldreview with the Bank, the proposedDA'sbudget allocationwith a view to
ensuring that the DA budget for next Fiscal Year i s inline with DA's MFOs. This initialreview would
not substitute for the existing formal presentation and review o f DAsbudget by the DBM.

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The basis for the project stems from numerous discussions with Government, private sector stakeholders,
and the recent joint review o f the Bank, the Philippine Government and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) onPublic Expenditure, Procurement andFinancialManagement' which collectively emphasized
the needto address the fundamental institutionalissues constraining achievement o f the Government's
goals o f enhancing growth and reducingpoverty through a more competitive and market-oriented
agriculture sector. Historically, projects have not dealt with the core institutional issues within the DA;
also, they failed to address systemic issues, inparticular, the manner inwhich DA budget resources are
allocated, the effectiveness o f these choices. Efforts inthe past (such as various donor-funded assistance
to improve agricultural support services inthe late 1980s and early 1990s) have poured indirect and
substantial investments for support services without pursuingthe necessary reforms for changing the
institutional mechanisms for delivering such support services. Hence, when such projects were
completed, the old way o f doing business remained and not much improvement has been made in
providing efficient service delivery mechanisms to bolster the sector's competitiveness. A lesson learned
inthisexperience is that itwouldnotbebeneficialinthe longrunto putinsubstantial investments in
support services without pursuing, inparallel, the necessary institutional reforms. On the other hand, the
on-going Bank-assisted Second Social Expenditure Management Program, while providing direct support
to investments on social expenditures such as textbooks, has also pursued at the same time, changes inthe
present system for procedures and mechanisms for procurement of textbooks. Such an approach has
contributedto institutingbetter governance and transparency, and greater efficiencies inthe provision o f
such basic social expenditures, as seen inthe documentation o f the project's implementation experience.
Inview o fthese lessons, the project is designedinsuch a way that critical investments for agricultural
competitiveness would be supported with funding, coupled with direct interventions to influence the
institutional mechanisms by which these investments would be prioritized and delivered to DA clients, in
a manner which would respond to market needs.


'PublicExpenditure,  ProcurementandFinancial Management(Report No. 24256-PH, datedApril 30,2003)


                                                        6

6. Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection

The key design issue for the project i s how to tackle the deeply entrenched institutional issues inthe DA,
as enunciated by various stakeholders: a) widespread private sector frustrationwith inefficient market
signals and cumbersome bureaucracy inthe DA which has retarded investments inagribusiness and ago-
processing, and b) the continuing decline inrural incomes and agricultural productivity, despite the
country having quite favorable agro-ecological conditions. Against this background, the usual straight
investment project, supportingfunctions o f the DA such as those relatedto research, extension, irrigation,
farmer training etc, without adequate emphasis on institutional reform and strengthening, was considered
inappropriate, as past similar effort has had little sustained impact on the DA's core operations or on its
ways o f doing business. Rather, the need for a project that would facilitate a process o f institutional
change led to initial discussions with the Government on an adaptable program loan (APL),which would
have allowed a longer term and phasedprogram o f support. Government, however, was unwillingto
commit to another APL intheir overall portfolio with the Bank, leading to the rejection o fthis option.
Subsequently, a consensus was developed across government departments, and with private sector groups
on the critical needfor Bank assistance, both to initiate the process o f institutional reform inthe DA, and
to help realign and support the overall investment program o f the DA, which would be responsive to the
agriculture modernization goals, embodied inAFMA. Accordingly, the S I M loan instrumentwas chosen
as it provided the best way to address and leverage difficult institutional issues while providing loan
resources for an agreed program o f DA public sector expenditure geared towards farm income
diversification and market development.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

Not applicable.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Implementation o fthe project would follow normal DA management and administrative procedures, in
the interest o f integratingthe reforms under the project with DA's regular operations. To facilitate the
process, the operations o f the Project Advisory Board (PAB), which was established by the DA to guide
project preparation, would continue duringproject implementation. The PAB would maintain
responsibilities for management and problem solving duringproject implementation, and would
periodically report on project implementation effectiveness to the DA Management Committee
(MANCOM), headedby the DA Secretary. Day-to-day operations o fthe project would be coordinated
through a Project CoordinationOffice (PCO) under the Policy and Planning Office. Itwould primarily
act as the technical secretariat o f the PAB and be responsible for providing coordination support for the
technical and financial management o f the project. For each Focus Area, a complementary mechanism
for oversight and guidance would be provided by a Regional Project Advisory Board (RPAB) and a
Regional Project Coordination Office (RPCO). The RPAB and RPCOs would be responsible for helping
to ensure that institutional reforms beingpursuedby the DA at the central level are implementedat the
regional level, and for facilitating the prioritization of local market development investments. The LGUs
would be responsible for proposing, preparing, contracting and implementing market development
subprojects.

3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomes/results

A strong element o fmonitoring and evaluation(M&E) will be requiredunder the project to help ensure
the direction and momentum for institutionalreform i s sustained. Feedback on key progress indicators


                                                         7

will be critical insustaining the focus and commitment o fDA's senior andmiddle-level management on
the direction o f change for strengthening the DA's core functions and mandate. Accordingly, M&E
would be done from an overall DA perspective and at each component level. The ProgramMonitoring
and EvaluationDivision (PMED) incollaboration with BAS, the Policy Research Service and A M A S
would have responsibility for monitoring and evaluation o fproject results. Inputs and technical
assistance from other agencies may also be requestedas the need arises. Details o f indicators and
procedures to be followed inmonitoring progress under the project are given inAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

The project concept, and its emphasis on reforming the DA's planning and resource prioritization process
inlinewithcore functions prescribedbyAFMA andbyMFOs, havebeeninline withthe government-
wide initiative to reconfigure Departmental budgets, through improvements inpublic expenditure
management. Hence, significant support for the project has beenprovided by key oversight agencies, ie.,
NEDA, DOFandDBM,to the DA since the beginning o fthe project development process and would
continue duringimplementation and evaluation o f this important project. Inaddition, private sector
groups have time and again advocated the critical need for the DA to pursue its critical core functions,
especially those that relate to market development. All o f these factors will ensure that the project goals
are achieved and sustained. The provisions o f AFMA i s also indicative o f the strong support that exists
for modernizing the agriculture sector and o f the sustained support that can be expected for the goals o f
the project. The process o f change to be supported by the project would require considerable effort, both
on the part o f Government and the Bank, ifit were to be successful. Such follow-up will needto be
maintained long after the project period.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

The following summarizes the key risks and mitigating factors specific to the project:

                                                                                                  RiskRating
             Risks                                RiskMitigationMeasures                              with
                                                                                                   Mitigation
 Toproject development
 objective
 Successive Governments         A solid basis exists at the outset throughthe provisions o fthe        M
 may not have the same          AFMA underpinning the institutionalreforms, coupledwith
 level o f commitment and       strong buy-into the project from DA management, a broad
 ownership for the              cross-section o f DA staff and private sector stakeholders, and
 institutional reform           from the oversight agencies. This broad base o f support and
 process.                       understanding o f the goals o f the project, coupled with the
                                enabling Act (AFMA), should help to keep the institutional
                                reformprocess on track.
 To component results
 Inadequate capacities o f      Reviews done as part o f preparation o f the project indicate           S
 DA agencies and LGUs           considerable experience and capacity exists both at the DA-
 involved inthe technical,      agency level and inthe concerned WUs inregardto
 procurement and                procurement and financial management. Inorder to mitigate
 financial management in        the risk o f inadequate capacities, provisions are included
 the project.                   under the project for substantial technical assistance through
                                learning-by-doing mode, as well as the proper sequencing o f
                                such technical assistance with the implementation o fproject



                                                        8

                             investments.
                             Inorder to address this issue, directpayments (above                 M
 for project                 threshold levels) for subprojects and for programcontracts
 implementation              among DA ImplementingAgencies would be done, inorder
                             to facilitate funds flow for loanproceeds during
                             implementation. Equally important, since this loan
                             instrument will directly support a portion o f the DA budget,
                             this would ease Government's requirement for cash. Since
                             the DBMi s a member o f the PAB, this concern would be
                             flagged on a regular basis with the DBM.

 Delays inthe                The mainriskrelates to the varying levels o f leadership and         M
 implementation o f the      dynamism inthe DA implementing agencies, RFUs and
 agreed institutional        LGUssupported by the project. To mitigate this risk,clear
reforms                      agreements between the Bank and the DNGOP will be made
                             on dated implementation milestones and results fi-amework,
                             which would be closely monitored for compliance during
                             regular review missions.
I                                                                                 ~~    ~




 Elite capture o fproject    Integrationo f measures inthe information dissemination,             M
 interventions and            capacity building, subproject development and technical
 processes inthe focus        assistance activities that would facilitate broader-scope for
 areas thereby reducing      participation among various stakeholders, and monitoring o f
 benefits to other           processes and results
 stakeholders
    Overall RiskRating                                                                            M

6. Loanconditionsandcovenants

Disbursements:

No withdrawals will be made inrespect o f a Competitive ResearchGrant (under Category 1o f the Loan)
unless and untilthe Competitive ResearchGrant Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly adopted
bythe DA. Similarly, no withdrawals will be made inrespect o fa Sub-grant under the Market
Development InvestmentComponent (under Category (2) o f the Loan), unless and untilthe Operational
Manual andthe Implementation Procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank, have been duly adopted by the
DA (ref. LA Schedule 1, Part A, paras. 3a and 3b).

ProjectImplementation:

a) DA will adopt and thereafter implement the Operational Manual and the ImplementationProcedures
    for the selection, approval and supervision o f sub-projects under the Market Development Investment
    Component, ina manner satisfactory to the Bank (ref. LA Schedule 5, para.2a).
b)   DA will adopt andthereafter implement the Competitive ResearchGrant Manual inthe selection,
    approval and supervision o fresearch sub-projects, ina manner satisfactory to the Bank (ref. LA
    Schedule 5, para 2b).
c) DA will not alter any provision o f the OperationalManual and ImplementationProcedures for the
    selection, approval and supervision o f sub-projects under the Market Development Investment




                                                      9

    Component, and the Competitive Research Grant Manual without the prior concurrence o f the Bank
    (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 2c),
    ByMarch 31o f eachyear, commencingin2005, the DAwould annually review withthe DBM,
    NEDA and the Bank, how itsplan andbudget submission for the followingyear reflects plans for
    allocatingresources in support o f achieving the goals o f AFMA. This review would not substitute for
    the existing presentation and review processes o f the DBM (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 7).
    By December 31, 2004, a Special Order or similar instructionwould be issued, to establish and
    thereafter operationalize the AFMIS (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 3).
    ByMarch31,2005, a Special Order or similar instructionwould be issuedre-defining the role ofAT1
    as beingprimarilyresponsible for strategic planning, coordinating and fundingo f training and
    information dissemination, inline with the goals o f AFMA (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 6).
    ByMay 31,2005, DA would develop andthereafter implement anAction Plan to rationalize, and
    improve the cost-efficiency o f the quarantine Services o f BPI, BFARand BAI(ref. LA Schedule 5,
    para 5).
    ByJune 30,2005, the DA would develop andthereafter implement an Action Planto rationalize and
    strengthen the operations and maintenance (0& M) o f laboratories neededto service DA's regulatory
    system (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 4).
    By Septemljer 30,2006, DA would undertake and submit an external mid-term evaluation in
    collaborationwithNEDA and DBMon the achievement o fproject objectives and ways to strengthen
    implementation (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 12b and 12c).
    By September 30,2008, DA would undertake and submit an external terminal evaluation conducted
    under the overall direction o f the NEDA, in collaborationwith DBM, o f the Project's effectiveness
    and on ways to sustain the gains achieved under the project (ref. LA Schedule 5, para 12dand 12e).

FinancialCovenants:

a) The project will maintain an adequate financial management system with appropriate books o f
    accounts and inaccordance with generally accepted accounting principles (ref. LA Article IV,Section
    4.01 a).
b) The FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs) describing the use o f funds ,physicalprogress under the
    project, and status o f procurement will be provided to the Bank quarterly not later that 45 days after
    the end o fthe quarter for which it i s due (ref. LA Article IV,Section 4.02 a and Section 4.02 b).
c) The Commission on Audit (COA) will audit the project and submit its report to the Bank not later
    than six months after the end o f each fiscal year insuch detail as the Bank may reasonably request
    while also retaining all financial and accounting records for at least one year after the Bank has
    receivedthe associated audit report (ref. LA Article IV Section 4.01 b and Section 4.01 c).

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

EconomicAnalysis: The project is envisaged to include benefitsaccruingfrom improvedpublic sector
delivery o f market development services and investments through DA, and from a more rational
prioritization o fbudgetary resources in accordance with the DA's core functions. These inturn, can be
expected to stimulate greater diversification o f farm incomes; greater horizontal and vertical market
integration; improved domestic and export trade performance; higher profits and incomes infarming, and
expansion o f private sector activity inthe sector. A number o f multiplier effects are also anticipated. For
example, at the farm level, better access to price and product information will increaseproducer
awareness and responsiveness to markets and prices to facilitate greater diversification. Likewise,
improved post harvest facilities and investments in farm-to-market roads will ensure that producers do not
incur inordinately highcosts relatedto transport and post harvest losses. Over time, producers could be


                                                       10

expected to be better equipped to meet expanding market requirements. A more conducive market
environment will also encourage greater private sector investment inagro-processing, storage and
transport, while improvements inthe regulatory and food quality services should reduce the economic
cost o f export rejection and increase revenues by improving the competitiveness o f domestic products vis
a vis quality imports.

The bulko f loan proceeds (67%) would be used to finance investments which are normally part o f the
regular budget o f the DA, its line agencies and bureaus, which are aimed at improving the provision o f
public sector goods such as advisory services, market information, regulatory and quality services and
research and technology dissemination. While the economic benefits o f such goods and services are not
directly quantifiable, the project has a mechanism to ensure that funds are specifically used to meet
project objectives. This would reinforce the provisions set out inthe AF'MA and budget reform initiatives
being implementedby the Philippine Government to promote fiscal discipline (spending within
affordable limits), allocative efficiency (spending on right priorities), operational efficiency (value for
money). Guidelines for this type o fperformance- basedbudgeting will be issuedby the DBMbeginning
withthe 2005 budget call, which will be basedon agreed MFOsbetween and amongthe DA, DBMand
NEDA. Withregardto the balance o fthe loan(33%), this would be for direct (hard) investments infocus
areas for development o f market infrastructure and post harvest facilities. Project fimding will be
provided on an agreed cost-sharing basis to LGUs and the private sector, for eligible investments in
support o fproject objectives. The main objective, however, would be to improve efficiency ininvestment
selection and prioritization o f these market related investments. Accordingly, the project will introduce
procedures and criteria (detailed inthe Operations Manual), to ensure a participatory, demand-driven use
o f resources, consistent with devolution and the NG-LGUfinancing framework. Indicative economic
rates o freturn (ERRS)for identified investments inthe first year were calculated and it showedthat the
ERRSwould be greater than the Opportunity Cost o fCapital.Economic/financialmodels for a sample o f
Year 1subprojects have beenprepared and ERRSrange from 16to 18% for the said subprojects.

Financial Analysis: For the project as a whole, financial analysis i s not appropriate as the loan i s being
provided to the DA primarily to support public goods, which would not be revenue-generating. However,
as part o f investment support to focus areas, a possibility exists for co-financing income generating
enterprises with the private sector and producer associations. These may form part o f the portfolio o f
investments, which will be evaluated and selected inline with procedures set out inthe OM.

Fiscal impact: The loan would finance core activities normally supported by the DA, inparticular
assuring fundingfor critical core functions on market development, which had so far not received
adequate support. It i s scaled so as to be consistent with the budget ceiling o f the DA, and hence,
consistent with the budget ceiling o f the DA, and hence, consistent with the overall fiscal parameters set
by the Government. Loanproceeds would specifically support core activities, which are part o fthe
regular budgets o fDA's agencies and bureaus inorder to assure fundingto targeted MFOs. While none
o f the activities or expenditures under the project would be subject to cost recovery, the experience under
this project can be a useful inputto design future approaches for cost recovery o f market-related
investments, which the Government may finance.




2. Technical

The technical design of market development infrastructure investments (such as farm-to-market roads,
irrigation, postharvest facilities, trading posts, etc.) infocus areas will be inaccordance with the criteria
and guidelines developed duringproject preparation(ref. Annex 4, Table 1) and i s part o f the OM.



                                                         11

3. Fiduciary

The project would work follow the regular financial management systems o f the DA's central office,
attached agencies and regional field units, as well as that o f the LGUs. Previous experience with the DA
on audit compliance has been satisfactory. Duringthe financial management (FM) assessment done for
this project, it was notedthat the DA's FMsystemwould needto be improvedinterms o ftimeliness o fits
recording and reporting (Bank Reconciliation Statements and other reconciliationworks on the General
against Subsidiary ledgers as well as on Physicalinventory against recorded accountabilities inthe
books). The inherent risks relate to the tight budget situation o f the government, delayed funds flow,
manual based books o f accounts and low LGUFMcapacity. The Control Riskspertain to accounting
policies and procedures/practices, Internal Audit, andreporting and monitoring. Likewise, numerous
errors notedby the auditor indicate certain problems inaccuracy andreliability o f the financials.
However, the FMarrangements proposed for this project would address the aforementioned deficiencies
and would meet the Bank's minimumrequirements.

Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be prepared under the project would comprise the Sources and
Uses o f Funds and the Balance Sheet. Details on the project's financial management system and funds
flow are inAnnex 7. Disbursement for the project shall be under the traditional SOE-basedmethod with
option to convert to FMRdisbursement when the Project feels confident that they can do it under this
procedure. Five special account shall be maintainedand managed under the project (one at the DA
Central Office and one at each of the four DA Regional Field Unitscovering the focus areas).

Withregard to procurement, the issuance o fthe implementingrules andregulationsfor the recently
passed Procurement L a w (RA 9184), require that LGUs follow the new rules on public bidding.
Accordingly, substantial technical assistance and supervision o f LGUswill be neededto ensure
satisfactory procurement planning and contract administration. The project i s expected to also benefit
from the soon to be finalized harmonized documents for national competitive biddingfor works. The
procurement assessment done on the capabilities o f the DA Central Office and its various agencies and
regional field units also reveals a lack o f experience and familiarity on International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), and limitedcapacity for national shopping procedures. Inlight o fthis, the overall procurement
riskassessmentfor thisproject is high. To address this constraint, a procurement specialist from the
Bank's Country Office will participate inthe regular supervision mission for the project to be done every
six months. It is also plannedthat procurement post-review/audits will be done.

4. Social

The project's social development outcomes are primarily those related to the benefits o f improved and
sustained farm incomes o f farmers, growers and consumers at large. Contributing to this outcome would
be the improvedmarket information system for farmers and traders, enhancement of farmer technical
skills, strengthening o f grower associations and the efforts and infrastructuresupport designed to better
linkproductionwith marketopportunities anddemand.

The main social issues that could arise would result from the non-inclusion o f some social groups inthe
planning process and access to benefits o f the plannedinterventions; e.g., indigenous peoples (Ips),
growers not affiliated with established groups, and women. To the extent that the majority o f the farmers,
inthe Focus areas are small landholders (owning 2-hectares or less), andare not currently affiliatedwith
organized farmers/growers associations, care was taken in designing the project to identify and consult
with such stakeholders, and to incorporateprovision for participatoryprocesses inthe OMthat will be
used as a basis for investments inthe project areas. Additionally, an IPPolicy Framework was prepared



                                                       12

to guide project implementers and to avoid negative social impacts resulting from project activities.
Issues relating to resettlement, land acquisition or loss o f assets will be uncommon, since investments will
be limited to the rehabilitatiodupgradingo f farm-to-market roads, construction and rehabilitation o f
market-support facilities, mostly on government-owned lands or lands donated by interested stakeholders.
Nevertheless, a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework has been preparedby the DA to
minimize risks associated with involuntaryresettlement. Additionally, the project supports training and
buildsonthe current initiatives o f organized farmers associations inthe Focus Areas to reachout to more
marginahmall-scale farmers. The Bankhas also organized a three-day gender and development training
and planning workshop where DA participated and prepared its draft gender and development (GAD)
plan for the project. This plan would be integrated into the agency's over-all GADplan and will be
monitored on a regular basis.

Duringimplementationo fthe project, the DA-Regional FieldUnits(DA-RFUs)will facilitate annual
stakeholder consultations, together with partner-LGUs and industryassociations, as part o f the
preparatory activities for the subsequent year's investment planning o f boththe DA-RFUsand the LGUs.
Where there i s the likelihood o f people being affected by the proposed subprojects, consultations and
disclosure of the project's safeguards policies would be undertaken by the concemed LGU, as part o fthe
subproject preparation. To help ensure open and regular feedback on the project activities, representatives
from farmers/growers associations, LGUs and from the DA, are included incommittees dealing with
subproject management, project appraisal and review.

5. Environment

The project seeks to improve the competitiveness o f Philippine agriculture through improvements in
productivity, quality and post-harvest handling o f agricultural products. Inso doing, the project will
support enhancement o f grades and standards, improvements o fpesticide productpackaging, pesticide
residue monitoring and enforcement. The project also supports ways to reduce chemical use per unit area
o f crop, and to improve the safe applicationand handling o f agricultural chemicals. Inthe focus areas,
support would be provided for the expansion o f Integrated Pest Management (PM) programs already
under implementation. Further, there would be no use o f project funds for the procurement o f pesticides,
nor i s there subsidy inthe Philippines for chemicalpesticides. The project i s classified as Category B
because it i s not expected to have any adverse and unprecedented environmental impacts.

The activities that will necessitate an environmental analysis and environmental management plan (EMP)
are those associated with the component on Market Development Investments, which supports the
construction and/or rehabilitation o fpost-harvest facilities, farm-to-market roads, wholesale market
collection points, small-scale irrigation systems, cold storage chains, etc. For this component, an
environmentalassessment (EA) has beenprepared. The EA covers year 1subprojects inthree o f the four
focus areas. The EA confirms the minor impacts o fthe market infrastructure subprojects, given their
nature and scale. Environmental Guidelines are provided inthe OM and subproject EMPs will be
prepared and implemented by the Proponent (LGU or Grower's Association). These will be screened,
approved and subsequently monitoredby the DA-RFU,inconsultation with the Departmento f
Environment and Natural Resources (DEW). Subprojects relating to marketing o f fish products will
especially be looked at inregard to impact on critical natural habitats, such as mangrove areas, coral reefs,
etc. Subprojects that adversely impact on these habitats will be ineligible.




                                                       13

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                    No
  Enviromnental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                                      [I
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

Please see Annex 10 for the discussion on the abovementioned safeguardpolicies.

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

The project would not require any exceptions from Bank policies. Interms o f readiness for
implementation, detailed implementationplans and corresponding procurement plans for each o fthe
project components have been preparedby the implementingagencies. These have beenreviewed during
appraisal and have been found satisfactory for adoption and implementation. The engineering design and
procurementdocuments for Year 1subprojects are currently beingprepared by the LGUsand will be
ready intime to meet the proposed implementation schedule under which subproject implementation i s
estimated to start at the beginning o f 2005. Safeguard disclosure requirements have also been complied
with prior to loannegotiations.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                             14

                        Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
             Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


The Philippines has consistently been among the poorest performing economies inAsia. Since 1994, with
the exception o f the ElNino and the Asian financial Crisis in 1998/99, GDP growth per capita averaged
around 2.6 percent a year, which was considerably lower than 6.8 percent for the region as a whole inthe
same period. Weak economic performance has, inturn, constrained the ability o fthe country to reduce
poverty. The contribution o f the agricultural sector to GDP has declined over the 1990s, with serious
implications for poverty reduction inrural areas where the majority o f the country's poor live. Forty two
percent o f the population i s rural, o f which 66 percent are directly dependent on agriculture for their
livelihood. An estimated 50% o frural households live below the poverty line. As rural households depend
heavily on agriculture for their livelihoods, the performance o f the sector i s a good proxy for their
economic well-being. However, the performance o f agriculture sector has been generally poor inrecent
years. Growth inagricultural GDP declined from 5.8 percent inthe 1970s to 2.1 percent inthe 1980s and
to only 1.4 percent inthe 1990s. The growth ingross value-added has beennegative or poor inmajor
crops over the last decade.


To revitalize the agriculture sector, therefore, an important aspect o f the Government's Medium Term
Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP 2001-04) i s promoting agriculture and fisheries modernization
with social equity.

Despite the needto foster greater modernizationand market compliance, diversification inagriculture and
the level o fmarket integration and efficiency remain poor. As competitiveness has declined, trade deficit
inagriculture has increasedbyover 400%, fromUS$199million in 1995to US$1.08 billionin2002, with
exports declining by 21%, from US$2.50 billion in 1995 to US$1.98 billion in2002 and imports
increasing by 15% to US$3.05 billion.

Generally, producers are price takers ina system dominated by a multitude o f middlemen and traders,
each with their respective margins. The prohibitively highcost o f institutionalcredit for farmers, together
withpolicies precludingthose inarrears from receivingnew loans, i s a major impedimentto agricultural
investment and entrepreneurship. Likewise, agribusiness development i s plaguedwith a complex array o f
regulations, non-transparent bureaucracy and inefficient and costly freight charges, which often protect
vested interests. The average cost o f transport and logistics o f agri-fishery products inthe Philippines, for
example, i s around 25-40%, compared to 8-10% indeveloped countries2. Collectively, low farm
productivity and diversification, poor market integrationand the highcost o f doing business inthe
Philippines mean that the country i s falling further behind other Asian competitors, even inprimary
products such as rice and corn. Without growth inthe rural areas, the impact o f the Government's overall
plans and targeted investments for reducingrural poverty will not be realized.

The agriculture sector has expanding opportunities as the domestic market slowly becomes more
sophisticated, and liberalization o f trade under the WTO means that greater opportunities exist inthe
global market. Inspite o fthis, however, the country's competitive advantage inits key commodities (rice,
corn, coconut and sugar) has continuedto slip and few new products have emerged where the country can
compete inany significant way on world markets. Overall, agriculture growth has barely kept pace with



  Transport o f Agricultural Products:Ports & Shipping Issues: Enrico L.Basilio, Transport and Logistics Center,
UniversityofAsia and the Pacific.


                                                         15

population growtho f 2.02% per year over the past two decades, leading to persistence o f chronic poverty
inrural areas.

To reverse this declining competitiveness and harness the opportunities that exist, producers needto be
more market-oriented, producing the right commodities at the right time, and inthe volumes required by
the market at competitive prices. However the sector i s dogged with tremendous structural difficulties
and lack o f investment, leaving a considerable portion o f the potential unrealized. Various policy and
institutional distortions mean that market andprice signals to producers are weak or inefficient, marketing
costs are inordinately high, and there i s relatively little private sector investment invalue-added
production. At the heart o f the problem i s the need for long overdue institutional, functional and public-
expenditure reforms inthe DA. Inspite o f the MTPDP and legislation under AFMA, there i s little
congruence betweenthe plans and programs o fthe DA and the annual budget process. Likewise, there i s
virtually no linkage between the budget and the performance-based directives o f Govemment under the
MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework (MTEF), nor i s there an effective framework for integrating
bilateral and multilateral assistance with ongoing programs, hampering sustainability.

Most public expenditure for the sector i s focused on rice and com production, with residual amounts only
for functions underpinning market development and support for commodities with potential for value-
addition. On average, only 2% o f DA's budget over the past five years was spent on supporting market
development and information services and only some 9% on regulatory services. Adding to this i s the
lack o f transparency and conflicting mandates and proceduralrequirements o f various government
agencies, lack o f consistent enforcement o f regulation, inordinately highinternaltransport costs, and
general reluctance o f banks to provide credit to the sector because o f poor experiences inthe past.
Collectively, these add enormously to the costs o f doing business inthe sector. These amount to major
disincentives for private sector investments, reluctance on the part o f producers to invest indiversification
or to raise yields or improve productivity and quality. They also constitute a serious impediment to
Government's overall efforts to address the country's pervasive rural poverty. Inthe absence o f actions
tackling the underpinning issues affecting agricultural growth, farm incomes have been declining, on- and
off- farmjob creation has not been forthcoming at the pace needed, and there i s growing farmer
discontent with their inability to compete with importedproduce, leading to increasing pressure on
govemment to re-introduce tariff and non-tariff barriers.

Onthe part o fthe Bank, broadbasedrural development remains a core element o fthe Bank's assistance
to the Philippines. Inthe 2003-2005 CAS period, the Bank aims to sharpen its non-lending and lending
support to address the declining competitiveness o f Philippine agriculture, which must be reversed, if
agricultural growth, on-and o f f farm employment creation and rural poverty reduction are to be achieved.
Inparticular, longoverduepolicyandinstitutionaladjustmentsareneededtostimulateprivatesector
investment inagriculture. These are made all the more urgent as the country adjusts to the phasing-in o f
trade liberalization under GATT-WTO.

Inparticular, the Bank's support for the rural sector are focused on (a) rationalizingand streamlining
policy, institutional and regulatory.mechanisms to remove market distortions for agricultural products, to
lower transaction costs, and to provide an incentive framework for market-led improvements; (b)
empowering LGUs and poor rural communities to improve access to productive assets and services
through investments linkedwith capacity building, for poverty alleviation, sustainable farm and nonfarm
livelihood and employment; (c) providing targeted support for small-scale producers to diversify their
production and incomes inresponse to market signals; and (d) supporting sustainable community-based
resource management programs, usingintegratedecosystems approach, targeted to LGUs and poor rural
communities.




                                                         16

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
           Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


Below are major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies (completed, on-
going and planned):

      Sector Issue                         Project                      LatestSupervisionRating
                                                                       (Bank-finana projectsonly)
                                                                     Implementation      Development
                                                                      Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
                            ....
Bank-financed

Institutional                Mindanao Rural Development                    S                   S
Strengthening, LGU           Program, APL 1
empowerment and CDD,         Agrarian ReformCommunities
Beneficiary-led             Development Project I                           S                   S
Operation and                Agrarian ReformCommunities
Maintenance                  Development Project I1                         S                   S
                            .AEWM SocialFund                                S                   S
                             KALAHI-CIDSS Project                           S                   S


Rural Finance               Rural Finance Project I11                       S                   S

Water Resources             0Water Resources Development
Planning and                Project                                         S                   S
Managementand
Institutional Support        Laguna de Bay Institutional
                            Strengthening and Community                 (Recently          (Recently
                            ParticipationProject                        Approved)          Approved)


CDDNatural Resource          Community-Based Resource
Management and LGU          ManagementProject                               S                   S

financing                    Conservation o f Priority Protected
                            Areas Project                                   U                   U



Institutional               0Land Administration Management                 S                   S
Development                 Project I




                                                   17

       Sector Issue                        Project
0ther development
agencies

Small enterprise activities e ADB: Agrarian Reform Communities
and provision o f support   Project
infrastructure

LGUcapacity and             0 IFAD:Western Mindanao
participatory planning      Community Initiative Project

ConstructiodRehabilitati      JBIC: Agrarian ReformInfrastructure
on o frural infrastructure  Support Project Phase Iand I1
andprovision o fpost        JBIC: Sustainable ARC Settlement
harvest facilities          Areas DevelopmentProgramin
                            Mindanao
                            eADB: Infrastructure Support Project
                            ("9
                            *USAID: Growthwith Equity in
                            Mindanao


 Fisheries Resource         e ADB-JBIC: Fisheries Resource
 Management                 Management Project

 Food Grains Reform         eADB: Grain Sector Development
                            Program (recently cancelled)
                            *USAID: Accelerating Growth and
                            Investmentwith Equity- Grains
                            Market Component


 CDD and Micro-             eEU: Economic Self Reliance Program
                            -  Caraballo and Southern Cordillera
 enterprise                  Agricultural Development (ERP-
                             CASCADE)
                             e EU:CentralCordillera Agricultural
                             Programme, Phase I1


 Food Safety and             eFAO: Diversified FarmingProject-

 Quarantine, Market          Special Program for Food Security
 information,
 Development of Market
 Plans




                                                   18

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
              Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject


                                             ResultsFramework

                 PDO                                                        Use of OutcomeInformation
The objective o fthe project is to     Better client satisfaction with DA's  The data would flag problems o f
assist the Borrower to strengthen the  delivery o f market information,     :ommitment inmaintaining support
:apacity o f its Department o f        development services and             indbudget targets for core market
Agriculture to provide                 market-related investments.           ievelopment functions and the goals
market-oriented services to increase                                        IfAFMA.
agricultural competitiveness and
rural incomes.



ComponentOne:                          Component One:                        Eomponent One:
Operationalizationo f the AFMIS in     By the endof the project, 75% of      Lower than expected access rates
the four focus areas.                  targeted farmers inthe four focus     w i l l highlight potential problems in
                                       areas would be regularly accessing    systemdelivery, lack o f awareness
                                       the AFMIS for market information      3 f system availability and utility.
                                       needs and advisory services.
Component Two:                         Component Two :                       Component Two:
All infrastructure investments         All market development investments    Slow update will flag issues needing
supported by the DA inFocus Areas      inthe focus areas arebeing carried    to be addressed, e.g., problems with
would be executed following the        out inaccordance with the             cost sharing requirements,
procedures described inthe             Operations Manual and the             processingipayment issues, need for
Operations Manual, consistent with     ImplementationProcedures for          technical assistance etc.
the framework o f devolution and       market development.
NG-LGUfinancing framework.


ComponentThree:                        ComponentThree:                       Component Three:
Fulldisclosure ofregulatory            User-friendly,comprehensive web-      Slow adoption would point to
procedures, charges, forms etc.        based system operating and            implementation issues. Particular
through a web-based information        publicized                            attention should be givento ensure
system                                                                       actions are being taken to improve
                                                                             transparency, reduce bureaucracy
Fullcost charge-out rates applied for  Fullcost recovery for all services    and develop sustainable systems for
services connected with provisiono f    achieved                             the execution ofregulatory
clearances, certification, provisiono f                                      responsibilities.
improved genetic material etc.

Increase inthe number o f accredited    Increase inthe number o f DA
private sector operated seed            private sector accreditation
production units, nurseries, and        guidelines by at least 20%
analytical laboratories, servicing the
sector

ComponentFour:                          ComponentFour:                       Component Four:
Loan funds provided through the         Technologies being developed have    The quality ofresearch supported
Competitive Grants Program              clear linkages with market demand    though Competitive ResearchGrants
support research with clear             and opportunities                    should be periodically reviewed as a
linkages to market demand and                                                measure o f DA strategic oversight


                                                           19

linkages to market demand and                                            for the effectiveness o fpublic
opportunities                                                            resource allocations for research.

Component Five:                      Component Five:                     Component Five:
Strengthening core functions o f the  Indicative budget targets as a YO  Slow adjustment would flag
DA on support o fmarket               o f the total annual DA budget:    concerns about backsliding inthe
development services, quality         Market Development Services        budgetary reforms being supported
assurance, market-linked technology   7%, Regulatory Services lo%,       by the project.
development and dissemination, and    Information Services 5%,
agricultural development planning     Infrastructure Services lo%,
and resource allocation.              Research and Technology 8%,
                                      Planning, M&E, and Financial
                                      Management 7%




                                                         20

                                 Arrangements for resultsmonitoring

A strong element o f monitoring and evaluation (M&E)will berequiredunder the projectbecause o fthe
substantial changes envisaged interms o freorienting the DA's focus to be more service-and market-
oriented, and because o f the implications this will have on staff attitudes, incentives, and ways o f doing
business. The key to the success o f the project, will be in sustaining the focus and commitment o f DA's
senior and middle-level management on the direction o f change underpinning the strengthening o f core
service functions. Accordingly, M&E would be done from an overall DA perspective and at each
component level. The ProgramMonitoring and Evaluation Division (PMED) o f the Planning Service
would be responsible for monitoring the project's implementation performance and progress towards
meeting its development objectives. It will provide regular feedback to the PAB on these concerns, as
well as critical issues requiring attention. The PMEDwould utilize its existing functional linkages with
the various agencies o f the DA and with the DA Regional Field Unitsresponsible for M&E, inline with
normal operating procedures.

An assessment o f the DA'sM&Ecapacities indicate the needfor strengthening its M&Efunctions and for
improving the existing M&E system and mechanisms. Providing support to strengthening M&E
functions and capabilities o f the DA would enable the project to contribute significantly inimproving the
way DA does its business. Accordingly, the project would provide funds for (a) computers to better equip
the PMED and for them to be able to linkmore effectively with their counterparts inthe regional field
unitsandinthe participatingDA agencies; (b) operating costs for data collection and field visits; and (c)
technical assistance.

At the level o feach component o fthe project, mechanisms havebeenincludedto provide feedback on
implementation progress and effectiveness. Implementation plans and schedules for each agency and unit
to be supported under the project are includedinthe Project Files and would be used as the basis for
monitoring progress at the component level. More specific indicators o fprogress towards the project
objectives are given below. The PMEDwould have responsibility for maintaining up-to-date information
on progress toward achievement o f these indicators, which would be usedto complement its own
evaluation of the project's effectiveness. These indicatorswould form the basis for assessments o f
progress by Bank supervisions and provide a basis for discussions with DA management on
achievements under the project.

Inview o fthe strong interest ofthe oversight agencies inthe process ofchange inthe DA,by September
30, 2006, an extemal mid-term evaluation would be submittedby the DA, incollaborationwith the
NEDAand the DBM,to assess the effectiveness o fthe DA's efforts inregardto (a) strengthening its
capacity and procedures for development planning, resource allocation and financial management, and (b)
refining its MFOs inline with the core functions o f the DA and goals o f AFMA. By September 30, 2008,
DA would submit an extemal evaluation report o fthe Project's effectiveness, particularly on its impact in
improving the delivery o f DA services for market development, which would be conducted under the
overall direction o f the NEDA. incollaborationwith the DBM.




                                                       21

5


i
!

e

c

E
:




        N
        N
I
a
i
2




     fa

       e3




       .-0Sa
       I


       -8
       g
       4:

       .-*
        E
        0

       -80
        a
       g
       Ei

        C
        0
       .e
       Y
       zg
        a



       4:




%--
       .-a
       IE       .-F

       -8
       g
       4:


3

i
I


S



I

a
E




              IA
             N
1
C

t
t




     $ 5%m
     0
     A .E

ai
m
3
A

                                   Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


BriefDescriptionof ProjectComponents:

The project has five interlinked though not interdependent components designed to address some o f the
main constraints for a sustainable private sector development and to support a sustainedprocess o f
institutional change the DA.These will involve institutional strengthening and capacity development,
along with public sector market infrastructure support to facilitate private sector expansion o f diverse
agricultural market opportunities. The components are as follows:

Component 1:Supportfor MarketDevelopmentServices: This component would support
service functions responding to requests for better market information and services inbuildingmarket
linkages between growers, traders, processors and exporters country-wide.

Component2: MarketDevelopmentInvestments:These areto be concentrated onfour Focus
Areas3, and designed to complement LGUand private sector investments to expand markets for crop,
livestock and fishery products.

Component3: StrengtheningSafety and QualityAssurance Systemsfor Market
Development: This component would strengthenregulatory functions, relatingto the effectiveness and
efficiency o f export and import clearances to improve product safety and quality, reduce transaction costs
and minimize product rejections and detentions due to contaminants that undermine export market
development.

Component4: Market-linkedTechnologyDevelopmentandDissemination:The component's
focus would be to support private sector demands for more market-driven research and technologyrelated
to crop, livestock and fishery production; and

Component5: EnhancingBudgetResourceAllocationand Planning:This components would
seek to reorient and strengthen the overall service functions o fthe DA, insupport o f more
market-oriented, private sector led development o f the agriculture sector

DetailedDescriptionofProjectComponents

Component1: Supportfor MarketDevelopmentServices(US$17.16 Million)

There are linkages betweenthe information system to be developed under this component and sources o f
information and mechanisms for dissemination supported under Components 3 and 4. Activities to be
supported under this component are as follows.


          (a)     Developmentof a MarketInformationService Support would beprovided for
                                                                              -
the provision o f a comprehensive information system to growers, traders, processors and exporters on


  These focus areas were selected through a consultative process on the basis of opportunities for enhancing or
expanding diversified enterprises through greater awareness o f market issues and strategic market-related
investments. Strong private sector presence and participation ingrowersltraders associations inthe selected
localities was also a factor considered inthe selection process.


                                                          27

prices, and on volumes traded inmajor outlets. The service, to be formally known as the Agriculture and
Fisheries Market Information System (AFMIS), would initially be implemented inthe nine provinces
comprising the four Focus Areas to be supported under the project. The DA would establish AFMIS by
December 31, 2004 with terms o f reference, satisfactory to the Bank. It would be developed as a core
function o f the DA involvinginputsfrom BAS, AMAS, ITCAF, AFIS, and NAFC. The information
system would eventually link with information to be provided by the regulatory agencies, facilitatedby
BAFPS, on product standards, regulatorypolicies and procedures. Dissemination o f information would
be integrated with the functions o f ATI, which are to be strengthenedunder the project (see component
4). Local market information systems would be establishedineach o f the Focus Areas to providereal-
time data service to growers, traders, processors etc., andhave operational links with local government
unitsandgrowerhader associations. The design o fAFMIS buildsonpast experience with implementing
a pilot scale activity (AGMARIS- agriculture market information service), which has been constrained by
lack o f sustained funding. The project would support the equipment needs (computers, cell phones,
copiers and vehicles), locally hired technical assistance (for Market Information and System Design), as
well as operating costs and training for the establishment and operation o f AFMIS.

         (b)      Strengtheningof Market Advisory Services and Support - Support wouldbe
provided to AMAS to strengthen its core functions and capacity inhelping develop markets through such
activities as (i)cost sharing with the private sector for market promotion through trade fairs, publications,
etc.; (ii)enhanced web-based information and links, especially relating to information and procedures for
quality assurance/regulatory issues (see also component 3); (iii)  specialized data collection and market
analysis; (iv) technical assistance; (v) training and workshops facilitating linkages between growers,
traders, processors and exporters, and (vi) operating costs. To help ensure that market service functions
remain responsive to the evolving needs o f the growers and other private sector interests, AMAS would
draw on the feedback mechanisms through the private sector-led National Marketing Umbrella (NMU) .
established under AFMA, which i s charged with helping to forge market linkages and providing more
effective feed-back mechanisms to guide public sector support.


         (c)      Enhancement of DA's Web-Sites and National Information Network - In
conjunction with the establishment o fthe AFMIS described above, and the information linkages with
other agencies o f the DA, support would be provided to ITCAF for the IT aspects relatedto upgradingthe
quality and user-friendliness o f DA's websites. Inparticular, the support for ICTAF would be for
assisting with the establishment o f AFMIS and improving internet-based access to comprehensive
information on regulations, clearance procedures, fees, along with the capacity, bothto down-load forms
and submit them electronically. Provision o f funds for ICTAF would be for equipment, operating costs
and technical assistance.

Component 2: Market Development Investments (US22.25 Million)

This component would complement the strengthening o f core functions o fthe DA (through components
1,3 and 4) by providing funds, on a cost-sharing basis with LGUs and growers' associations, for
investments designed to foster public and private sector investments leading to expansion o f markets and
employment opportunities for farm households. The nature o f the investments to be supported buildon




                                                       28

the Focus Areas (Region lo), as part o f project preparation. Investments would initially be supported in
existing programs o f the DA and experience gained through a pilot project assisted by the FA0 inone o f

four Focus Areas4(see Annex 6),but flexibility would exist under the project for investment support to be
provided for other areas, based on experience gained inimplementing the project, and subject to adoption
o f the same criteria and procedures for such investments. These new criteria and procedures have been
introducedto help ensure a more participatory, demand-driven use o f resources, as well as improved
consideration o f technical, financial, economic, social and environmental aspects. The requirements are
described inan Operations Manual LGUsand Private Sector Groups for Project Preparation and
Implementation o f DFIMDP Subprojects, as well as inthe Implementation Procedures for DA's RFUs for
Processing Subprojects for Market Related Development and Investment Support, which would be
formally adopted by the DA as a condition o f disbursement for this component. The types o f investment
and summary o f the criteria for their selection are given below inTable 1.
         Table 1. Market Development Investments and General Criteria for Selection

              Type o f Investment                     General Criteria (details are provided inthe
                                                                   Operations Manual)
         Farm-to-Market Access               Farm-to-Market Access
         Farm-to-market roads or             Must linkto anexisting all-weather road;
         market access roads,                Musthave vital links to an existing or potentialproduction
         suspension footbridges or           area with great market potential;
         short span bridge;                  Mustserve one or more municipalityhes;
         tramlines                           For rehabilitationhpgrading of an existing road, except for
         construction; improvement o f       short sections that will be provided with concrete tire paths,
         footpaths;                          the road gradient does not exceed 12%;
         upgrading o f cart tracks and
         tire paths at section o fFMR
         roads exceeding 12%
         longitudinal slope

         Deep Wells (depth of more           Deep Wells
         than 12meters)                      Mustbe locatedinareaswith highgroundwater potential;
                                             Prior clearance from the National Water Resources Board
                                             mustbe obtained;
                                             Incase the proposedproject is insidean existing irrigation
                                             system area, the farmers-beneficiaries must be willing to
                                             enter into an MOA with the existing irrigation system which
                                             shall approve the manner o f O&M o f the system and mode o f
                                             payment o f irrigation service fees (ISF);
                                             Mustbe economically feasible for a service area not lower
                                             than 20 hectares
         Shallow Tube Wells (depth           Shallow Tube Wells
         less than 12 meters)                Minimumarea to be servedby eachpump is about 3
                                             hectares;
                                             All shallow wells to be drilled must conformto the approved

        I                                    B S W M or NIAtypical plan o f a Shallow Tube Well;


4These focus areas were selected through a consultative process on the basis o f opportunities for enhancing or
expanding diversified enterprises through greater awareness o f market issues and strategic market-related
investments. Strong private sector presence and participationingroweritrading associations inthe selected localities
was also a factor considered inthe selection process.


                                                        29

                            Discharge measurements using a 200-liter drum and timer,
                            must be conducted on newly constructed or existing shallow
                            wells. Only shallow wells with discharges o f at least 160
                            gpmfor rice and 100gpmfor other crops must undergo
                            pumpingtests. Wells with lower discharges mustbe
                            ibandoned.
Communal Irrigation Systems Communal Irrigation Systems
                            As per NIA guidelines, there must be a viable I A that will
                            Zommit to the repair, operation & maintenance o fthe system
                            after construction or rehabilitation;
                            Area must have good potential for the intendedcrops that are
                            to bringadded income for the farms;
                            LGUandIAmust commit to putuptheir share o fthe cost in
                            accordance with the terms o f cost sharing;
                            Musthave goodpotential ofincreasing unit o fproductivity
Post Harvest Facilities     Cold Chain System
Cold Chain System           Building Design shouldprovidefor:
                            Flexibility to make the facility less subjected to obsolescence
                            and to provide greater operating efficiency considering rapid
                            changes inprocesses and technology.
                            Expansioninproduction and operation.
                            Workers safety, convenience and comfort, including
                            provision for protection against fire, earthquakes and other
                            potential disasters.
                            National buildingcodes and standards (including standards
                            for machinery/ equipment andprocesses).
                            Facility Location should have:
                            Proximity to market(s) and availability o f raw materials, e.g.
                            fishery/marine resources.
                            Availability o f required labor and support
                            infrastructures/services, e.g. power, water supply,
                            transportation, communication, etc.
                            Availability o f community facilities.
                            Facility Layout should accommodate:
                            The type o fproduct(s) to be stored/processed inthe facility.
                            The sequence o f operational processes involved inthe
                            facility.
                            The spatial/technical requirements o f the machinery, the
                            people involved, and the total operational system o f the
                            facility (including repair and maintenance).
                            The arrangement o f machine capacity to achieve a relatively
                            uniform flow at capacity operation or what i s termed as
                            balance in achieving efficient operation.
                            The provision o f areas for collecting the products awaiting
                            further processing, inspection, or transport.
                            The provision o f facilities to promote good and healthy
                            working environment.
                            The layout must provide greater flexibility for any changes in
                            the operation or productionprocesses inthe facility.
Trading Posts               This can be a construction, rehabilitation or improvement o f
                            an existinn facilitv:


                                        30

                                          The function o f the trading post whether to assemble produce
                                          for immediate dispatch (supplyconsolidation), or to provide
                                          medium or long-term storage for certain commodities (to
                                          provide full value-added marketing service) should be clearly
                                          specified.

The eligibility criteria to be followedinselectingandimplementingmarketinvestmentsunder
the projectwouldbe as describedbelow(Table2).

        Table2. Criteria for SubprojectViability


         COMPONENT                                        ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA


        MARKET              There is a strongmarketdemandfor the commoditythe interventionintendsto service
        POTENTIAL

                            Locatedina site that has strongpotentialfor highyield
                            Effectivefarmer organizationsare operatinginthe area
                            Proposedinfrastructure shouldbe relevantto existingmarketingsystemandto the
                            identifiedcommodity
        ENVIRONMEN-         Not locatedinan environmentally criticalarea (ECA)
        TAL                 Prudentuse ofchemical fertilizers, pesticidesandother chemical inputsthat are
        SOUNDNESS



        SOCIAL
        ASSESSMENT




        TECHNICAL
        FEASIBILITY




        ECONOMIC
        VIABILITY
        FINANCIAL
        VIABILITY




Cost-sharing arrangements for investments under this component would follow the schedule approved by
the NEDA-Investment Coordinating Council (ICC) and Department o f Finance-Municipal Development
FundOffice (DOF-MDFO) Policy GoverningBoardcontained inthe Resolution "Adopting the Guiding
Principles in the Evaluation and Processing of Projects with NG-LGUCost-SharingArrangement on




                                                      31

Devolved Activities", as shown below. To the extent these cost-sharing formulae may change duringthe
project implementation, the new formulae would be applied.




         Table 3. Cost sharing levels for public-private investments inthe Focus Areas
         Social Projects

         LGU           FMRs, Communal Irrigation Systems, Rural/Local Roads, Bridges
         Income        MunicipalitiesProvinces                    Cities
         Class         NGDA-Grant           1Total LG Equity NGDA- Grant             ITotal LG Equity
         lSt&2"'       30                    70                   0                   100
         3rd& 4th      40                    60                   0                   100
         5th& 6th      50                    50                   30                  70




          3rd&4th      20                     80                  0                   0
          5'h& 6th     50                     50                  0                   0

The DA financing shall be a grant assistance to the proponent LGU, while the LGU equity can be 100%
incashor a combinationofcashandin-kindequity.The NEDA-ICC/DOFguidelines, however,
prescribes that a minimum 10% cash equity shouldbe providedby the LGUbased on the total subproject
cost. This i s specifically intended to cover tax payments relevant to the subproject implementation.

To help ensure that the project gets o f f to a good start, priority subprojects for Year 1implementation
have been identified by each Focus Area RFUinconsultation with LGUs and other stakeholders. These
projects have been reviewed against the criteria established inthe Operations Manual to ensure their
eligibility. The indicative list and costs of these projects are given inTable 4 below:




                                                       32

        1Table 4. Indicative List o f Subprojects For Year-1 Implementation

         Subproject Name             Proponent/                Total Project  DA Grant       Proponent's
                                     Location                  Cost (Php)      (Php)         Equity(PhP)
         1.Rehabilitationof the      Municipality of
         JNR-Loo-Taba-ao-BPI         Buguias (4'h Class);      2,382,668       953,067       1,429,601
         Barangay Road               Benguet Province
         2.Rehabilitation of the     Municipality o f
         JNR-Loo-Pan-Ayaoan-         Buguias (4* Class);       .2,328,297      931,319       1,396,978
         BPIBarangay Road            Benguet Province
         3.Rehabilitationof the      Municipality of
         Kibangay-Tumpagan           Lantapan (4thClass);
                                     Bukidnon Province         5,862,486       2,344,994     3,517,492
                                     Municipality of
         Mantalongon-Caleriohan      Dalaguete (31dClass),     4,500,000       1,800,000     2,700,000
                                     CebuProvince
         5.Kibangay Mango Post       Municipality o f
         harvest Facility            Lantapan (4thClass),
                                     Bukidnon Province          6,000,000      1,200,000     4,800,000
        1TOTAL COST                                             21,073,451     7,229,380     13,844,07 1

Component3: StrengtheningSafety andQuality Assurance Systems for Market
Development (US$17.33 Million)

The project would support the strengthening of the regulatory services of the DA designed to improve the
safety and quality of products for consumers and conformity with the standards o f importing countries.
That said, regulatory functions o f the DA are spreadover some 13 different agencies, where
implementation capacity and enforcement varies widely. Direct support under the project would be
focused on strengthening those functions that are public sector responsibilitiesinregardto ensuring levels
o f safety and quality assurance, both for domestic consumption, and to sustain development o f
competitive market outlets for Philippine agricultural, fishery and animal products as described below:

          (a)    Institutionalandphysicalstrengtheningof BAFPS-The BAFPS was created
underAFMA andmandated to support better direction, coordination and oversight ofregulatory functions
relating to standards. While widely recognized as meetinga critical gap inthe regulatory mechanism, the
institution has never been giventhe funds to become operationally effective. That said, the project would
buildonthe agreementsreachedbetweenthe DAandDBMduringpreparationofthe project that would
pave the way for BAFPS to significantly increase its staff capacity, and to construct office and laboratory
facilities neededfor it to develop into an effective service, responsible for maintaining standards for
agricultural and fishery products. This would be formalizedthroughagreement between DBMand the
DAonthe staffingplanandindicative FY2005 budget. Itmustbe expected, however, that the processof
strengthening BAFPS will take time to achieve and fundingprovided under the project is indicative of
what i s expected to be a reasonable pace of development. Moreover, the functions o f BAFPS and types
of investment support under the project are expected to complement the functions and activities of other
regulatory agencies.Key activities to be supported inthis initial phase of its development would be: (i)
strengthening of the web- based system for accessinginformation on quality assuranceregulations and
procedures, down-loading o f forms and, over time, on-line clearance processes(in collaboration with
BAI,BFAR,NMIC, BPIand FPA, as well as with ITCAFandAMAS (see component 1); (ii) to               training


                                                      33

increase the numbers o f accredited agricultural food and product safety inspectors; and (iii)   development
o f standards for products with strong market potential. Accordingly, the project would provide for civil
works, equipment, technical assistance, training and operating costs.

         (b)      Strengtheningof laboratorycapacity- The project would strengthenthe services o f
the DA's regulatory system, especially inregardto meeting safety and quality assurance requirements for
both exports and imports o f agricultural, fishery and livestock products and inputs.Support would be
provided for strengthening laboratory facilities and operation. However, while strengthening o f
laboratory facilities i s clearly needed, there have been chronic problems o f sustaining effective operations
o f DA's laboratories. Accordingly, the project would provide for an in-depth review, rationalizationand
development o f an action plan that would provide direction for (i)    updating o f guidelines and
implementingmechanisms for the independent accreditation o f public and private laboratories, together
with guidelines for private sector participationinlaboratories andrelated services; (ii)    introductiono f
commercial principles inthe management o f DA's laboratories including charge-out rates reflecting the
full cost o fthe laboratoryservices; and (iii)  introduction o f mechanisms by which DA's regulatory
laboratories could retain a portion o f their service fees for the purpose o f sustaining their operational
capacity. The study and action plan, which would be coordinated by BAFPS, should be completed by
June 30,2005 and i s intended to guide fundingunder the project for laboratory strengthening.


         (c)      Streamliningof quarantineandinspectionprocesses- The projectwould support
activities and development facilities designed to reduce the time and cost o f obtaining import and export
clearances, while effectively reducingthe country's exposure to potentially harmfulplant, fish and animal
pests, diseases and genetic risks. The current decentralized administrative arrangements for some
quarantine functions and staff, pose technical concerns, especially interms o f achievingmore effective,
transparent and consistent implementation o f regulations. There are also opportunities for synergies
between quarantine services o f BPI, BFAR and BAIthrough the sharing o f facilities that are not being
achieved. To help improve the cost-effectiveness o f quarantine services, the DA would complete review
and consultative process by M a y 3 1,2005 and thereafter, implement an Action Plan aimed at streamlining
the quarantine Services o fBPI, BFARand BAIin terms o f achieving cost-saving and efficiency measures
inquarantine functions o fthe DAthrough inter-agency sharing o ffacilities, databases, laboratories.
Based 04 the outcome o f this action plan, support would be provided for improving facilities, equipment
and training o f inspectors at the major ports o f Manila South Port, NAIA, Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro,
and Batangas. The primary focus o f the support for the Quarantine Services, would be to help to
streamline processes and improve effectiveness, with a view to facilitating soundprivate sector business
practices needed to strengthen competitiveness o fPhilippine agricultural, fishery and meat products on
export markets. Inthat context, funds would be provided for overseas travel to key conferences and to
meet with major trading partners to develop or refine quarantine protocols designed to expedite clearances
and eliminate product detentions and rejections. Computerization o f the databases o f the quarantine
services, and linkage with the customs computer system, would also be undertaken. Funds would be
provided for civil works, goods, equipment, training, technical assistance and operating costs.


plantingmaterial - The project would support the expansion o f scion groves byBPIfor vegetatively
         (d)      Increasedgrower access to improved(certified)seeds andhorticultural

propagated species as well as training and facilitation for significantly expanding the number o f
accreditedprivate sector operated seed farms, nurseries and laboratories. Underpinning this would be the
need for BPIto review its pricing o f seedlings etc., with a view to charging full costs and encouraging
greater private sector involvement inthe dissemination o f improved genetic material. Inconjunction with
this, technical assistance would be provided for the BARto more effectively implementIntellectual
Property Rightsprovisions relating to agriculture, inorder to both encourage greater private sector
participation inthe provision o f improved genetic material, and to facilitate greater access o f such



                                                        34

material to producers. Clearly, close collaborationbetweenBPIand BARwill be neededinthis activity.
Fundswouldbeprovidedto BPIfor civil works, goods and equipment, training and operating cost.

Component 4: Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination (US$9.66
Million)

The project would seek to address the serious deficiency indevelopment and dissemination of agriculture
technology inthe Philippines wherein the research and technology dissemination agendahas provided
little strategic attentionto agricultural commodities with greater marketpotential. Accordingly, the
activities to be supported would be as follows:

fishery(a)         Strengthening of the Competitive Research Grants scheme for agricultural,
          and livestock technology      - The functionsof BAR would be strengthenedthrough, i)the
provision of funds for market-related technology development; ii)modification of the evaluation criteria
for awarding competitive researchgrants to require that all researchproposals identifyhow the
technology would contribute to improving market competitiveness; and iii)support training of researchers
and extension trainers to reorient agricultural researchto be more market-oriented andremove the
entrenched perceptionof many researchers that the application of technology i s somebody else's business.
Accordingly, the project would provide support for Competitive ResearchGrants for market-oriented
technology development, and training for researchersinresearch formulation and market issues.
Competitive research grants would be open for bothpublic andprivate sector proponents and wouldbe
allocated basedon a set of criteria with a strong market development orientation. Adoption o f a
Competitive ResearchGrants Manual satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition o f disbursement for
this component. The Competitive ResearchGrantManual, would inter alia describe the strategic research
focus and evaluationprocedures to ensure that all researchproposals approved for fundingtake market
factors into account, and that proceeds of the loan funds allocated for thispurpose are usedfor crop,
livestock and fishery products with strong market potential.


Programs - The project would support a major shift inthe role of ATI, both functionally and inthe
          (b)      Strengtheningof Market-linkages through Reorientation of Training

nature of training provided. Underthe project, AT1would stop from beinga provider of training, except
for LGUextension staff, and strengthenits primary role instrategic planning, coordinating and fundingof
training and information dissemination, inline with the goals of AFMA. This would be formalized
through issuance of a Special Order or similar instructionby the Secretary of Agriculture by March 31,
2005. The nature of training to be provided would buildon the experience o fthe FAO-assisted technical
assistanceproject inone o f the Focus Areas (inRegion 10, see also Component 2), which has shown the
benefits from training sessions that bringproducers and buyers into direct contact with each other to both
clarify market needs and facilitate forward contracts. Training would also focus on improving the proper
use of chemicals and their disposal, to help mitigate the pesticide residue issues that continue to be
pervasive inPhilippine agricultural products. This refocusing o f the role and functions of AT1has the
potential for far-reaching implications across the DA,bothinterms of improving the relevance and
quality of training provided, and the efficiency with which the substantial amounts of funds spent on
training are utilized. AMAS (see component 1) would coordinate closely with AT1and provide oversight
to ensure this strong market orientation is sustained under the project. Accordingly, and inline with the
reorientationo f ATI, support would be provided for upgrading communication facilities and equipment,
technical assistanceand operating costs.




                                                      35

Component5: EnhancingBudgetResourceAllocation andPlanning (US$2.72 Million)

The project would support the government-wide initiative on improvement o f public expenditure
management, a process that seeks to improve efficiencies inpublic resource allocation and utilization, and
better linkages between planning and budgeting. DBMguidelines have required that line agency budgets
be allocated according to MFOs. The project will assist the DA inmalung the on-going transition to
MFO-based budgeting, inorder to assist DA's Management infacilitating better efficiency and strategic
oversight o fthe scarce budgetary resources allocated to the DA. To facilitate this process, by March3 1
o f each Fiscal year, the DA, DBMand NEDA, would review with the Bank, the proposed DA's budget
allocation for next Fiscal Year, and after taking due consideration o f the Bank's comments, and take all
such action as necessary to ensure that DA's budget for next Fiscal Year i s inline with DA's MFOs.This
initial review would not substitute for the existing formal presentation and review o f DAsbudget by the
DBM.Other activities to be supportedunder the project would include:

         (a)     Alignment of agencywork programswith MFOs andDA's core functions -
Inorder to assist inthe DBM-ledMFO-basedbudgetingexercise, substantial interactionthrough
workshops and training will be required. Responsibility for orchestrating these workshops and training,
which would be concentrated inthe early years o f the project, would rest with the Planning and Financial
Management Services. Accordingly, funds for training, workshops, consultations and operating costs
would be provided under the project.

          (b)     PolicyStudiesandAdvocacy Inorder to helpresolve issues affecting the
                                                    -
competitiveness o f Philippine agriculture, butbeyond the authority o f the DA, the project would support
specialized studies and advocacy action through workshops, publications, legal assistance, etc. Three
critical issues would be addressed, these having been identified inprior studies and meetings o f
stakeholders, such as (i) the need to reformoverly restrictive cabotage regulationswhich add significantly
to the cost o f doing business inthe agriculture sector; (ii)
                                                            alleviation o f costs involved intransport,
especially due to inefficiencies incollection and distribution o f fresh produce; and (iii) highcost o f
agriculture inputs vis-a vis other countries inAsia. Fundswould be providedunder the project insupport
of these and other emergingkey trade policy areas needingto be reviewed and inadvocating the
appropriate policy directions to address these critical issues.


          (c)     Strengtheningof ProjectManagementandM&E functions                        - The changes to be
introduced and supported under the project are expected to significantly affect ways o f doingbusiness in
the DA, and reinforce the need for strengthening the DA's overall management and M &E capacity (see
Annexes 3 and 6). Accordingly, the project would provide funds for (i)      computers to better equip the M
&E unito fthe Planning Service andthe Technical Secretariat or the PCO o fthe PAB, andto linkwith
their counterparts inRFUs, and (ii)  operating costs for data collection, field visits and technical
assistance.




                                                      36

                                                Annex 5: ProjectCosts
              Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                       Local             Foreign           Total
                                                                          U S $million U S $million U S $million
Support for Market Development Services                                         13.80               3.36            17.16
Market Development Investments                                                  22.25               0.00            22.25
Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems for Market                              12.65               4.68            17.33
Development
Market linked Technology Development and                                         8.78               0.88             9.66
Dissemination
EnhancingBudget Resource Allocation and Planning                                 2.39                0.33            2.72

Total Baseline Cost                                                             59.87                9.24           69.11
  Physical Contingencies
  Price Contingencies
                                         TotalProjectCosts'                     59.87                9.24            69.11
                                   Interest during construction
                                                   Front-end Fee                                     0.600            0.60
                                   TotalFinancingRequired                       59.87                9.84            69.71



'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$9.71 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$59.40 million. Therefore,
the share o fproject cost net of taxes i s 86%.




                                                               37

                                 Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
            Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


OverallImplementation Arrangements

Institutional arrangements for implementingthe project would, for the most part, follow the existing
procedures inregard to the management structure, mechanisms for channeling funds, accountability and
feedback. This i s considered essential given the agency-wide nature o f the reforms the project i s designed
to leverage and support. As such, the various components o f the project described inAnnex 4 would be
managedby the Director incharge o f the responsible DA agency, and as further elaboratedbelow.
Additionally, Project ImplementationPlans have been prepared by the various agencies concerned with
implementingthe project. These were preparedthrough the participation o f key staff from the responsible
agencies, as the guide to implementing the various components and activities o f the project.

Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with the DA's Management Committee
(MANCOM)' headedby the Secretary o fAgriculture. Implementationof the project would be under the
guidance o f the Project Advisory Board (PAB), which was earlier created by the DA to guide project
preparation through DA Special Order No. 195, Series o f 2003. The PAB would maintain responsibilities
for management and problem solving duringproject implementation. The PAB would periodically report
on project implementation effectiveness to the MANCOM and raise issues for resolution, as required.
Membership of the PAB comprises a sub-set o fMANCOMmembers: i.e., Assistant Secretary for Policy
and Planning as Chairperson and Assistant Secretaries for Administration and Finance and Field
Operations as Co-Chairs. The membership will be composed o f the Director o f the Project Development
Service (PDS), who will be the Chair o f the Project Coordination Office (PCO); Director o f the Bureau o f
Agricultural Statistics (BAS); Cluster Heads (Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems -Director o f the
BAFPS, Market linkedTechnology Development and Dissemination-Director o f Bureau o f Agricultural
Research (BAR), Support for Market Development Services - Director o f Agricultural Marketing
Assistance Service (AMAS), EnhancingBudget Resource Allocation and Planning- Service Director o f
Planning Service); DA's Regional Executive Directors inthe Four Focus Areas (Regions 6, 7, 10, and
CAR); representatives from the oversight agencies (NEDA, DBMand DOF) andthe President o fthe DA
Employees' Association.

Day-to-day operations o f the project would be coordinated through a PCO, which will primarily act as the
technical secretariat o f the PAB. Staffing o f the Technical Secretariat would comprise o f the Director o f
the PDS as the Chair, and supported by the staff from the PDS, AMAS, SPCMAD-Field Operation
Service, and the FinancialManagement Service. The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for
providing coordination support for the technical and financial management o f the project.

At the regional level, a similar structure would operate through a Regional ProjectAdvisory Board
(RPAB),while the RegionalTechnical Working Groups (RTWGs) createdto assist project preparation
would be transformed into Regional Project CoordinationOffices (RPCOs). These RPCOs comprise
representatives o fthe DA-RFUstaff, the private sector and the Local GovernmentUnits,and would be
responsible for the timely completion o f Focus Area activities and for ensuring that the selected
subprojects are supportive o f Project objectives. The RPCOs would also be responsible for helping to
ensure that institutionalreforms being pursuedby the DA at the central level, are implementedat the

5The Management Committee (MANCOM) o f the DA is the body responsible for providing overall policy guidance
for the implementation o f all operations o f the DA and its regional field units and attached agencies. It is chaired by
the Secretary o f Agriculture, with all the Undersecretaries, Assistant Secretaries, Directors and Heads o f the various
DA agencies andregional field offices.


                                                           38

regional level, with accompanying measures to improve operating procedures and delivery o f services by
relevant DA units and LGUs inthe Focus Areas. Also, the RPCOs would facilitate the prioritization o f
local market development investments, which would be directly implementedby the LGUs. The RPCOs
willreport to their respective Regional ExecutiveDirectors, who would be responsible for raising
implementation issues and concerns to the PCO and the Regional PAB.

To facilitate inter-agency collaboration, the four Clusters formed to develop the project would continue to
meet to facilitate implementation and sharing o f concerns and experiences. The effectiveness o f these
Clusters stem from the common interests among staff in: (a) Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems,
(b)Market-linked Technology Development andDissemination, (c) Support for MarketDevelopment
Services, and (d) Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning. Chairs o f the Clusters are
members o f the PAB and would be responsible for raising implementation issues with the PCO as needed.

Detailed Implementation Arrangementsfor Each Component

Component 1:Support for Market Development Services

The market services to be supported under the project would be implemented through the individual and
collaborative core functions o f the agencies described below.

Table 1. DA Units Involvedinthe Delivery o fMarket Development and Information Assistance

         Member-Agencies                                Functions                                      Product or Service
 Bureau o f Agricultural Statistics  Collect, compile and release official               Market prices, traded volume; Technical
 (BAS)                               agricultural statistics; central source o f the     assistance to end-users inaccessing and
                                     National InformationNetwork                         analyzing product and market information
 Agribusiness Marketing              Assist the private sector inmarketing               Market reports
 Assistance Service (AMAS)           ventures and inthe conduct o f market               Business advisory services
                                     analysis, identification and matching
 Informationand Technology           Management o f IT hardware and software             DA website, IT service provider
 Center for Agriculture and
 Fisheries (ITCAF)
INational Amiculture and           I Advisory body for consultative and
                                             -     -                                  I  Private sector feedback on program
                                                                                                                    ~-
 Fisheries Ciuncil (NAFC)           Icontinuing discussions to ensure the success       1effectiveness                            I
                                     o f DA programs                                     Policy recommendations
 Agriculture Training Institute      Lead agency infinancial and logistical              Training services, business advisory
 (AT11                               support for extension programs o f the DA           services, demonstration services


The specific implementation responsibilities under the component would be as follows:

B A S will revise and expand its AGMARIS to make it more responsive to clients' needs, and will improve
the quality and timeliness o f the production and other marketing statistics it provides to AFMIS. The
Director o f A M A S would have overall responsibility for the quality o f informationprovidedby AFMIS
and would chair the AFMIS Management Group comprised o f all unitsproviding inputsto AFMIS.
A M A S would also be a content provider to the AFMIS system                     - itwill develop RegionalAgribusiness
Profiles, information on export and local market opportunities, provide strategic assistance for trade fairs,
exhibits and like events, support selected activities o f industry and grower associations, and undertake
market analysis and feasibility studies. AT1will incorporate market and agnbusiness development inits
training and extension programs (further implementation details for AT1are includedbelow inthe
component on Market Linked Technology Development and Dissemination). NAFC will facilitate
AFMIS implementationby strengthening linkages among the local agriculture and fishery councils
(AFCs) and national sectoral committees (NSCs), andby developing an M&E system for AFMIS to



                                                                39

ensure that it addresses the needs o f farmers and industryassociations for reliable, adequate and timely
market information. AFIS will be responsible for ensuring that market information and development
activities become an integralpart o f its information dissemination mechanisms and networking.
Productionand market-related informationpackagedby AFIS will come inboth analog and digitized
forms and become part o f the entire AFMIS system for widespread access by users. ITCAF will expand
and upgrade the existing NINinfrastructure andbasic ITresources. Inparticular, it would develop the
web-based system and applications for the AFMIS and linkswith information from the DA regulatory
agencies inconjunction with BAFPS (see Component on Quality Assurance below). ITCAF will be the
system manager for these key information functions. Overall responsibility for coordination among
various agencies involved and ensuring the efficient delivery o f component objectives would be vested on
the AMAS.

Component2: Market DevelopmentInvestments

Implementationprocedures would be inaccordance with an Operations Manual for LGUs and Private
Sector Groups for Project Preparation and Implementation o f DFIMDP Subprojects, and the
ImplementationProcedures for DA RFUs for Processing Subprojects for Market RelatedDevelopment
and Investment Support to be adopted by the DA. Responsibility for implementationwould rest with the
DA's RegionalFieldUnitsfor eachFocus Area as describedbelow (Table 2), however flexibility exists
under the project for other RFUs to participate inconsultation with the Bank as experience evolves with
the new procedures, and subject to the RFUs adoptingthe new procedures for all market related
investments intheir area.



                        FocusArea                               PrincipalCommoditiesproducedin
                                                                            the FocusAreas

CAR         :LaTrinidad Valley, Benguet andMt.                 vegetables, h i t s , horticulture
Province
Region 6 : Capiz, Iloilo                                       fruits, fisheries, aquaculture
Region 7 : Cebu, Negros Oriental                               fruits, mariculture, ,horticulture
Region 10 : Bukidnon                                           corn, vegetables, horticulture, livestock

The identification o f the specific subprojects to be funded would follow a participatory approach that
considers the actual needs and demands o fthe existing agribusiness enterprises inthe localities. During
project preparation, stakeholder consultations were conducted ineach o f the four regions attendedby
private sector participants, mostly representing grower/industry associations inthe leading highvalue
crops/commodities, as well as representatives fi-om the local government units.The process generated a
long list of project ideas that would form the basis for the regional field unitsto refine their priorities for
budget support inDA's Medium-Term Development Plan.

T o ensure that the loan proceeds under this component are being spent for intended purposes, and are
being responsive to real market development needs o fproducer groups and LGUs, at least 20% o f the
total number o f subprojects per year, would be subjected to technical and financial ex-post reviews, in
addition to providing focus on these types o f subprojects duringthe conduct o fthe external mid-term and
terminal evaluations for the project.




                                                       40

Component 3: Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market
Development

Regulatory functions o f the DA are dispersedover a wide range o f agencies, some o f which were created
to promote, rather than regulate, the production o f particular commodities (Table 3). As a whole, the
DA'sregulatory system struggles to cope with the growing volume and variety o fcommodities,
contaminants, biological hazards, etc. Inthis phase ofreform o f the DA's functions, the project would
focus on strengthening the safety and quality assurance procedures and capacity o f BPI, NMIC, BFAR,
BAI, FPA andBAFPS. While implementationo fthe regulatory functions under the project would follow
the existing institutional mandates and mechanisms, it will be critical to maintain a highlevel o f DA's
management support and focus on the issues to resolve the deficiencies. Inthat context, the strengthening
o f BAFPS under the project i s seen as an important mechanism to facilitate coordination o f effort and
sharing o f information.

Support under the project would seek to correct key deficiencies identifiedby past studies6which have
attributedpart o f the erosion o f the agnculture sector's market competitiveness to the lack o f product
standards, poor enforcement o fregulations relating to agriculturalproduct safety and quality assurance,
and non-transparent and inefficient clearance and costing o f quarantine and phyto-sanitary functions.

Table 3. Regulatory Services o f D A ' s units andAttached Agencies

               Agency                       Products Regulated                                  Purpose
 Bureau o fAgricultural and              All food andnon-food            Ensure adherence o fproducers, processors,
 Fisheries Product Standards             products                        distributors and marketing agents with food safety
 (BAFPS)                                                                 standards and Codex Alimentarius
 NationalMeat Inspection                 Meat products                   Promulgate rules and regulations for post-production
 Commission (NMIC)                                                       flow o f livestock and meat products
 Bureau o f Plant Industry(BPI)          Plant Pesticide Residue,        Conserve and develop Philippine genetic resources
                                         SeedQuality, GMOs
 Bureau ofFisheries and Aquatic          FishPost Harvest                Promote its existing traditional products and enable
 Resources (BFAR)                        Technology, Fish                such traditional products to findaccess inthe global
                                         Inspection, Quarantine          market.
                                         and FishHealth Service
 Bureau o f Animal Industry (BAI)        Domestic animals                Development o f livestock and poultry farming
                                         livestock, poultry and          communities under competitive agricultural
                                                                                                            -
                                         allied industries.-             production systems.
 Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority      Fertilizers and pesticide       Ensurethe fertilizer andpesticide enduser that the
 P A )                                IIIproducts                    1I11quality o f these productspassed established
                                                                         parameters for efficacy, toxicity and safety

Inlight ofpastexperiencewiththe difficulty ofsustainingoperations oflaboratory services, priority
would be given to completing the study and action planningprovided for under the project to rationalize
public-private provision o f various types o f laboratory services, and to develop the financial, technical
and institutional arrangements for DA's service laboratory operation and accreditation (see Annex 4).
This study wouldbe coordinated byBAFPSandwould draw uponexpertise availableinthe concerned
regulatory agencies as well as include external technical expertise. To enable necessary investments to


6Philippine Agricultural Competitiveness and BenchMarking Study (2000). This comprehensive study identifies
important areas needing to be addressed(including regulatory services) to lower transaction costs o f doing business
inthe sector; the key factor contributing to the decline inthe competitiveness ofPhilippineagriculture.


                                                            41

proceedwithout undue delay, rationalizationstudy and Action Plan should be completed by June 30,
2005. Subsequent investment in strengthening laboratory facilities and functions under the project should
be based on criteria developed through this rationalizationstudy.

International technical assistance will be neededto assist with the strengthening of the quarantine service,
especially in regard to developing quarantine protocols with major trading partners, and bringing
quarantine procedures and systems in line with international standards. Opportunities for obtaining such
technical assistance, eg., from FAO, would be followed up during implementation.

Component4: Market-linkedTechnologyDevelopmentandDissemination

While the complexity of issues relating to Philippine agriculture researchare beyond the scope of what
can be tackled inthe context of the project, there are several areas where the DA can improve the
effectiveness o f its research, training and techno!ogy dissemination capacity in support of a more market-
oriented, private sector-led development ofthe sector. Under the project, the Competitive Research
Grants scheme for agricultural technology development would be strengthenedby coming up with a more
market-oriented set of evaluation criteria. Also, support would be given to enhance the training of
researchers with a view to reorienting agriculture research culture to be more market-oriented. The
responsibility for implementing this component would rest with BAR, which has sufficient
implementation capacity for this activity. To the extent that the main constraint will be getting
researchers to reorient their thinking and researchproposals to be responsive to market demands, priority
would be given to (a) collaborating with ongoing efforts under the auspices of Department of Science and
Technology's Philippine Center for Agriculture Resources Researchand Development (DOST-
PCARDD), aimed at placingthe various researchand technology development efforts under a"unified
research agenda" to achieve better resource allocation between upstream (basic) and downstream
(applied) research; (b) ensuringthe role of the DA under the "unified research agenda" takes account of
the need to better link downstream technology development with market demands; and (c) training
researchers in project formulation and market issues. Application of criteria for Competitive Research
Grants approved under the project should be rigorously done and the status and quality of the research
would be monitoredduring implementationof the project.

To ensure that the loan proceeds allocated for competitive research grants are being spent for intended
 purposes, and are being prioritized basedon their strong market development orientation, at least 20% of
the total number of competitive research grants awarded each year, would be subjected to technical and
 financial ex-post reviews, inaddition to providing focus to competitive research grants during the conduct
 of the external mid-term and terminal evaluations for the project.

 With regardto the re-alignment of the functions of the AT1and strengthening of training under the
 project, the principal issues will relate to changing the culture o f training both in terms of (a) increased
 collaboration with functional agencies and unitsof the DA indeveloping training plans and for the
 provision of technical expertise; (b) re-alignment of training to be more responsive to market conditions
 and stakeholder needs; and (c) more effective use of scarce training resourcesto address the declining
 competitiveness of Philippine agriculture. Experience gained under the FAO-assisted project inRegion
 10, undertakenas part o f project preparation, has provided considerable experience on the nature of
 training valued by growers and other private sector interests. Technical assistance will be neededto help
 further develop and deliver training modules, and to facilitate collaboration across agencies.
 Opportunities for provision of such technical assistance through grant assistance, e.g., FAO, would be
 explored during implementation.




                                                        42

Component5: EnhancingBudgetResourceAllocationandPlanning

The DA would be supportedwith technicalassistanceunder the projectinorder to implementthe on-
goingDBMinitiative onMFO-basedbudgeting. Accordingly, the UndersecretariesandAssistant
Secretaries for Planning, Operations and Financewould have key roles inhelpingto oversee and guide
implementationin respondingto the reconfiguraiionof budgetresource allocationandplanningprocess.
For the most part, implementationwould be throughexistingmandatesand mechanisms.Trainingand
workshops to elaborate the new processesand indrawingup the annual planand budgets would be done
within a revised DA internalplanningand budgetingcalendar. Implementationof critical agricultural
policy andtrade studies and advocacy action supportedunder the projectwould bethe responsibilityo f
the Undersecretary/Assistant Secretary for Policy andPlanning.




                                                   43

            Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
         Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


Summary of Financial Management Assessment

Country issues Relevantto the Project

  1, Tight budget situation -The current budgetdeficit being experienced by the government has
    ripple effects on many foreign-fundedprojects, especially those with substantial government
     counterpart requirements.
  2. Funds Flow -There i s an inherent delay inthe flow o f funds from the World Bank to Project
     Special Accounts, which i s estimated to be at least a month. To reduce this delay, the Country
     FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) has recommended the transfer o fthe issuance o f the
     Notice o f Cash Allocation (NCA) from DBMto the Bureau o fTreasury (BTr), inasmuchas this i s
     a treasury function. The other suggestion to DOF i s the direct remittance of the Bank funds to the
     Special Account o fprojects with the corresponding payment advice, reports and notices given to
     the concerned agencies. The Project shall take this delay into account inits projections and shall
     look for possible direct payment disbursements opportunities.
  3. Chart o f Accounts -The Chart o f Accounts being usedby the New Government Accounting
     System (NGAS) i s basically regulatory innature. Thus, there i s a need to append or include
     progradproject components sub accounts inthe current NGAS Agency Chart o f Accounts.

  4. ComputerizedNGAS -The computerized version o f the current NGAS has been significantly
     delayed.
  5. Internal Audit -Internal auditing ingovernment agencies i s not a well-developed function mainly
     due to budgetary constraints. Although they are authorized under the Internal Audit Code, very
     few government agencies have established their Internal Audit units mainly due to budgetary
     constraints. The Department o f Agriculture does not have an Internal Audit function. Certain audit
     functions are being undertaken by the Management Division on an ad hoc basis. On April 14,
     2003, the President o f the Philippines, through Administrative Order 70 ordered all Agencies and
     LGUs, among others, to create an InternalAudit Service. DA is planning to implement the said
     order.
  6. LGUFinancialManagement (FM) capacity -FMcapacity o f LGUs are generally weak,
     particularly those o f the 4'h to 6thclass category. As such, close supervision, good coordination
     with LGUs, and clear and adequate FMguidelines are necessary to address this issue.




                                                    44

Strengths and Weaknesses

The strengthso f the FinancialManagement system for the project are:

        1. A committed and strong Field OperationsGroup provides assurance that projects are
              properly implemented & supervised.
        2. The consultativeplanning& budgetprocessat the locallevelensures that the local
              development needs and problems, priority projects and locations are taken into consideration
              inthe Agency's target setting andplanpreparation. This ensures that funds spent areproperly
              utilized.
        3.    The documentedfinancialmanagementproceduresand organizationprovide
              completeness o f instructions & clarity inprocesses and functions.
        4.    The use o f the NGAS has upgraded the accounting systemo f the DA to internationally
              accepted accounting standards.

The weaknesses o f the financial management system o f the project were identified. These are indicated
below inthe specific Country and Control Risks discussions.

FundsFlow

The Project funds are composed o f the loan proceeds and Government counterpart funds. The expenditure
centers o f the project would be: (a) the DA Central Office mainly for eligible expenditures for goods,
services, operating costs, competitive researchgrants, workshops and training insupport o f market
development services, strengthening quality assurance systems, market-linked technology development
and dissemination, and enhancing agricultural development planning and resource allocation and (b) four
DA-RFUs,mainly for eligible expenditures for works and services insupport o fmarket development
investments and capacity building for LGUs and producer groups.

The general flow o f funds for the loanproceeds o f the project will be:

   1.        DA Special Account (SA) - Fromthe Bank, the fundswill flow to a DA Special Account(SA).
             DA's eligible expenditures are paidout o fthe said SA andthereafter, replenishedbythe Bank.

   2.        DA-RFUSA - Fromthe Bank, funds will go to an SA establishedbythe DA's RegionalField
             Unitonce the Bankhas completed the assessment o fthe financial management capacity for
             handling the SAs. These SAs will be replenishedby the Bank. Fundreleases for LGUs and
             producer groups are processedand controlled by the DA's Regional FieldUnitbased on
             submission o f eligible expenditures with supporting documents.

   3 .       Program Contracts between the DA Central Office and the DA implementing agencies (IAs) -
             Basedon a Program Contract, specifying expected outputs and timetable o f deliverables,
             betweenthe DA Central Office and a DA implementing agency, payments will be made to a
             DA implementingagency through the Bank's SOE disbursement method. Dependingon the
             amount to be disbursed, this can be through the Special Account or through direct payment,
             which will cause funds to flow from the Bank directly to the account o fthe relevant DA
             implementing agency. This will then be reported by the Project to the DBMwho will then
             issue an NCAA (Non Cash Allotment Advice). Disbursements under the Program Contract



                                                       45

           shall be based on previously agreed tranche payments and the satisfactory and timely
           implementation o f deliverables, as reported through the submission o fphysical and financial
           progress reports.




               Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project (DFIMDP)

                                   FF & Reporting                                     DP Billing




                                                     PC    4                    Contract                   Bills




                  Legend:     flowofFunds         DA Departmentof Agriculture           SA - SpecialAccount
                             _._.____
                                  FMRepolting     RFU- RegionalFieldUnit               DP DirectPayment
                                                                                           -
                                                  IAS-ImplementingAgencies              PC -Program Contract
                                                   LGU-Local GovemmentUnit              FF- FundsFlow




The flow of funds from the Bankto the GOP prior to the Special Account is as follows:

Before the loan funds reach the Project SA, which i s maintained with a Government Commercial
Bank(GCB), funds from the World Bank flow to the account o fthe Government under the account o f the
Treasurer o f the Bureau o f Treasury (Btr) maintainedat its CentralBank (Bangko Sentral ngPilipinas or
BSP). The BSP issues a Credit Advice to BTr upon receipt o f the World Bank money, the latter inturn
issues the Notice o f FundAvailability to DBMwith copy to the Department o f Agriculture, the
Implementing Agency (IA) for this project. The DBMthen issues an NCA(Notice o f Cash Allotment) to
the BTr for the account o f the Project with copy to the DA. The BTr then directs BSP to transfer the fund
to the DA's S A account. The BSP transfers the funds to the GCB where the Project has its SA. The GCB
inturncredits the account ofits Branch who inturncredits the sameto the Project's SA. Whenthe fund
has been credited to the SA, payment for eligible expenditures can now be claimed. This process
normally takes at least 17 working days, and this has to be factored inthe project's cash planning and
programming exercise to ensure efficient implementation.

For Government Counterpart Funds,the flow o f funds will follow the same flow stated above, except that
the funds will be coming from the DBM, instead o f from the World Bank. This portion o f the project
funds is subject to availability o fcash from the Government. As the Governmentis on a tight fiscal



                                                      46

budget situation, the DA i s requesting the DBCC that this counterpart funds be committedby government
and be exempted from its cash programming.

FM Organization and Staffing

The DA Central Office Financial & Management Service (FMS) i s mandated to advise top management
on matters relatedto budgeting, accounting and management. It i s also mandated to facilitate the release
o f funds neededby the DA inits delivery o f necessary support services to its clientele. It i s composed o f
three divisions, the Budget Division, the Accounting Division, and the Management Division. The
Cashiering Function i s under the Administrative Service.

DARFUshavethe followingtypical FMOrganizational setup: The Finance Division is headedby a
Chief who reports to an Assistant Director who intumreports to the Regional Director. The Finance
division i s composed o f three sections, which are the Accounting, Budget, and Cashiering Sections, each
headedby Section Heads.

An FMassessment was done on one o fthe four RFUs, which will be participatinginthe project. The
assessment noted adequate staffing, a good accounting system usingthe NGAS, and an up-to-date FM
reporting system. At the time of the FMassessment visit (duringthe first half o f December 2003), the
regional offices already have financial reports & updatedbooks, as o fNovember 2003. Their most
updated Bank reconciliation i s as o f October 2003. Their internal control system ensures that there i s
proper check and balance and approval o f transactions. Also, there are no incompatible functions
combined. The audit reports, though it had a qualified audit opinion, do not have findings that indicate a
weak financial management system. The qualification o f the auditor on cash and properties pertain to
defunct Bureaus and the Region i s currently trying to address this concem, but due to the introduction o f
the NGAS, this has been delayed. For every RFU,which will participate later on inthe implementationo f
the project, a similar assessment would be done.

An assessment o fthe FMcapacities o f eleven (11)implementingagencies within the DA was also
conducted. The assessments indicate that they comply with the minimumBank requirements, as
indicatedinthe verified FMquestionnaires (see the Project Files) accomplished by them and verified and
revisedby the assigned FinancialManagement Specialist.

Financial Management Policies and Procedures

The Project will be mainstreamed and will be usingthe same FMpolicies and procedures o f the DA.The
DA'sFMpolicies and procedures havebeenassessedand are found to be adequate. The key FMpolicies
and procedures o f the Agency are reflected inthe annex inthe FMAssessment Report (see Project Files).

Financial Management Reporting

The DA's Central Office Accounting Division currently prepares and submits regulatory reports.
Management reports are prepared only when required or on an ad hoc basis. Reports are generally two
months delayed, with the ConsolidatedFinancial Statements delayedby about three to four months,
mainly due to late submissions o fregional offices and attached bureaus.




                                                      47

I nformation System

The FMinformation systemofthe DA is basicallya manualsystem, usingcomputers for worksheets,
reports and communications.

External Audit

The Agency i s auditedby the State Auditor, the Commission on Audit (COA) as provided for under the
Philippine Constitution. COA has assignedan audit team located inthe DA to audit all DA's transactions.
This team is responsible for auditing ofDA'sCentralOffice transactions. For RFUs and other DA's
agencies, the respective auditors assigned coordinate and report to the Central DA auditor.

Compliance to financial covenants of projects handledby the DAhas been satisfactory.
The Audited Financial Statementsofthe DA for the year 2002 was rendereda QualifiedOpinionwith
exceptions mainly on Cash, Receivables, Advances, Inventoriesand Properties.

For the audit arrangements for the Project, COA will be the Auditor and its TORSwill be similar to what
it does with Bank-fundedcurrent projects. The requiredaudit submissions would includeproject financial
statements comprising o f Consolidated Project Balance Sheet, Consolidated Project Sources & Uses of
Funds, with disclosure on SA and SOEs. These shouldbe submittedby June 30 ofthe following year,
and should cover the whole project on a consolidated basis includingcounterpart funds.

Disbursement Arrangements

The proposed project will be disbursedover a period of four years under a S I M loan as a Fixed Spread
Loan inthe amount of $60M. The disbursements o f the loan shallbe inaccordancewith the financial plan
for the project for the following components, and fund source includingthe counterpart funds to be
provided by the government:

       Table 1.Financial Plan, by Project Component
        Component                                           Loan                Counterpart           Total
                                                       (inUS$'OOO)          Fund(inUS$"OOO)       (inUS$'OOO:
          1. Support for Market Development                  15.OO                  2.16             17.16
          Services
          2. Market Development Investment                   18.00                  4.25            22.25
          3, Strengthening Quality Assurance                 15.OO                  2.33            17.33
          Systems for Market
             Development
          4. Market LinkedTechnology                         9.00                   0.66             9.66
          Dissemination (including Competitive
          ResearchGrants)
          5. EnhancingBudgetResources                       2.40                    0.32            2.72
          Allocation and Planning.
                                 TotalProjectCosts          59.40                   9.71           69.11

                                       Front-endfee         0.60                    0.00            0.60

                          TotalFinancingRequired            60.00                   9.71           69.71




                                                    48

Five Special Accounts (SAs) will be maintainedby the Project at expenditure centers: one at the DA's
Central Office (at US$lSO,OOO) and one each for each o f the four DA's RFUs (at US$lOO,OOO each), with
the LandBank o f the Philippines (LBP). Should the SA become insufficient for the operations o f the
Project, a request for an increase, duly supported, may be done later. Thresholds for direct payments
would be applied on the individual SAs, and not on the total o f the various SAs as these pertainto
different Project components and different implementing agencies as indicatedinthe funds flow.
Disbursement for the project shall be under the traditional SOE-based methodwith option to convert to a
periodic disbursements method usingFinancial Management Reports (FMRs) when the project feels
comfortable to switch to it. Inany case, FMRswould be submitted by the project, whose format will be
agreed with the GOP. For the Competitive Research Grants under the Market Technology Development
and Dissemination Component and for the Sub-grants under the Market Development Investments
Component, no withdrawals for the corresponding Categories (1) and (2) o f the Loan Agreement will be
authorized unless and untiltheir respective Operations Manuals and ImplementationProcedures, have
been found acceptable by the Bank and duly adoptedby the Borrower.

ReportingArrangements

Due to the issues on delayed Bank Reconciliation statements, and other reconciliation issues such as the
delays infinancial reporting, FMRs and the previous months' Bank Reconciliation statements for the
project would initially be required to be submitted together with the SOEs. These requirements will be
continued and reviewed until such time that the DA prepares timely reconciliation and financial reports.

The following FMRs will be submitted : FinancialReport (Balance Sheet and Sources and Uses o f
Funds), PhysicalProgressReport andProcurement Report. The FMRreport formats will be agreed on
and will form part o f the FMmanual to be adopted for the project.

The weaknesseso f the financial management system o f the project were identified and the significant
ones have been included inthe ActionPlanbelow:



     Risksmeaknesses                             Action                   Responsibility        Completion
                                                                                                    Date
1.Tight budget situation         DA to work out program contracts       DA Project            March to June
                                 with its I A s to facilitate flow o f  Preparation Team,     2004
                                 loan proceeds.                         incollaboration
                                                                        with the FMS and
                                                                        the I A s
2. Delayed funds flow            Fundmanagement for the Project         DAFMS and             Assignment o f
                                 would be handledby a senior FM         Project Preparation   senior FM staff
                                 staff with adequate time to            Team                  before start o f
                                 supervise the project accounts                               project
                                                                                              implementation
3. No computerized NGAS          Good performing Accounting staff       DA Chief              DuringProject
and DelayedFinancial             shouldbe assigned to handle            Accountant            implementation
Reporting                        Project accounts and ensure proper
                                 accounting and timely submission
                                 o f FMRs & Bank Reconciliation
                                 statements.




                                                          49

                                                               I .
4.Deviations from          1Strictly enforce policies on       ID A C h i e f       DuringProject
Accounting Policies and     reconciliation, reporting, and      Accountant          implementation
Procedures                  liquidation o f cash advances.

5. No Internal audit        Encourage DA to set up an           Bank                DuringProject
                            Internal Audit Division                                 implementation
7. Low LGUFMcapacity        FMstafffrom DARegionalField         Regional PCO and    DuringProject
                            Unitsto provideadequate              Head o f FMOffice  implementation
                            guidance and close supervision o f   o f Regional Field
                            participating LGUs                  Units
8. FMCapacity o f the 3     Assessment o f the remaining 3       To be done by      May to June
remainingRFUs               RFUspriorto opening o ftheir SAs Bank FMS               2004




                                                  50

                                     Annex 8: Procurement
        Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject


1. Guidelines. Procurementofworks, goods andconsultant services fundedwholly or partlyby
Bank Loan will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRDLoans andIDA Credits" dated M a y 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines);
and the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (the
Consultant Guidelines) dated M a y 2004.

2. Summary of the ProcurementCapacityAssessment of the ImplementingAgencies.
The Project will be implementedby the Department o fAgriculture (DA), with participation from
Local Government Units (LGUs) which are responsible for the implementation o f their respective
subprojects. The DA's central officehureaus are expected to handle all three categories (goods, works
and technical assistance) inprocurement. While the department has handled Bank-financed projects
inthe past, thiswillbe the first inrecentyears for the DA's central office. Mostly, the department
handled other donors financed projects through various project management offices. The DA's
regular units have limited or no experience at all with InternationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB)
procedures while at the same time requirere-orientationon the new National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures, including the use o f GOP biddingdocuments as harmonizedwith the Bank. The
LGUs,which will be responsible for the procuremento fbulko f the works contracts, are only familiar
withhandlingprocurements o f small value and done by administration(force account) or "pakyaw"
contract (direct contracting o f labor group). Also, the LGUs usedto follow their individually crafted
rules on procurement as part o f the local autonomy act. With the issuance o f the implementingrules
and regulations o f Republic Act 9184 (recently passedprocurement law), the LGUs are now required
to follow the law. The shift to the new implementingrules and regulations, particularly with public
biddingrequires technical assistance and supervision of LGUs from the project inall aspects o f
operations (planning, procurement and contract administration).

An assessment o f DA,together with its instrumentalities andrepresentative LGUs' capacity to
implement project procurement was carried out. The general findings o f the assessments conform to
the findings and recommendations o f the Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).
The project's overall risk assessment i s under the highrisk category.

Inorder to mitigate therisks, the Projectwouldprovide technical assistance for procurement, not only
to bringthe project to speed, but sustain the procurement activities as the project progresses. The DA
will prepare and adopt a consolidated procurementmanual providing all the implementingunitsthe
detailed steps to be followed for each o f the procurement and selection methods (including provisions
o f standard sets o fprocurement documents for all three categories: goods, works and technical
assistance) to be used duringproject implementation. Procurement capacity buildinghaining plan o f
personnel involved inthe procurement will be implemented and financed under the project.

3. Conflictsbetweenthe procurementproceduresof the Governmentof the Philippines
and proceduresacceptableto the World Bank.The CPARfor the Philippineswas completed
inJune 2002, and itassessedtheprocurementriskas average. Anannex inthe procurementschedule
inthe loanagreement will be included, detailingprocedures under existingnationallaws that are not
acceptable to the Bank for procurement under National Competitive Bidding.




                                                  51

4. Procurement Methods.

A. Works. (US$24.7 1million). Works will consistso fvarious LGUinfrastructure investments
suchas farm to marketroads, storagehousesand dryingpavements, water wells, communal irrigation
systems, etc., to be funded under sub-grants, and construction, rehabilitation and upgradingof various
laboratorybuildingsand offices under civil works contracts. No ICB i s expected due to the small size
and dispersednature of the works contracts. The following thresholds will apply:

        a) National Competitive Bidding(NCB). Works contracts estimated at US$50,000 or more
            equivalent will beprocuredunder NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. N o contracts
            above US$l million are expected. The GoP works biddingdocuments as harmonized
            with the Bank will beusedfor allNCB procurements; and

        b) Procurement for SmallWorks (PSW). Works contracts estimated to cost less than
            US$50,000 equivalent will be procuredthrough simplifiedprocurement procedures for
            small works. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three
            qualified contractors.

B. Goods. (US$18.48 million). Goods will consistsmostly of laboratoryandresearchequipment,
and information technology equipment and software. The project will also provide for office
equipment and fumiture/fixtures, and goods for inspection and quarantine purposes. The following
thresholds will apply:

        a) International Competitive Bidding(ICB). To the extent possible, goods of similar nature
            will belumpedinappropriate packages, and contracts estimated at US$200,000 or more
            equivalent will be procuredunder ICB procedures usingthe Bank's latest Standard
            BiddingDocuments for procurement of goods. Also, the Bank's Standard BidEvaluation
            Formwill be usedinpreparingthe bidevaluation reports.

        b) NationalCompetitive Bidding(NCB). Goods contracts estimated at US$50,000 or more
            equivalent, up to less than US$200,000 equivalent will be procuredunder NCB
            procedures acceptable to the Bank. The GoP goods biddingdocuments as harmonized
            with the Bankwill be usedfor all NCB procurement.

        c)   Shopping. Goods contracts to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent consistingo f several
            small and distinct off-the-shelf items would beprocured accordingto the shopping
            procedures acceptable to the Bank. Shopping should be based on comparingprice
            quotations from at least three suppliers.

        d) Direct Contract. Contracts involvingsoftware and other proprietary items obtainable only
            fiom one source, and determined to bejustified instandardizing a process may be
            procuredby using direct contracting, with the Bank's prior agreement. The project has
            identifiedthe various software to operatenetworks and make them compatible with the
            existing system, and upgrading o f old analytical equipment estimated to cost below
            US$5,000 per contract with an aggregate cost US$200,000.

C. Consultancy Services. (US$5.32 million). Consultancy services for rationalizingregulatory
and quarantine systems, mechanisms, and approaches; strengtheningdelivery of market development
services, policy, planning and financial management, etc. will be fundedby the project. For contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO or more, Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)



                                                52

    procedures will be followed inthe hiringo f consulting firms for regular and well defined assignments
    such as design and development o f applicatiodweb system, impact evaluation review, technical
    assistance for integrated quarantine services, etc. Otherwise Quality Based Selection (QBS)
    procedures will be followed inthe hiringo f consulting firms for assignments which are complex and
    highly specialized, and when the consultants are expected to demonstrate innovations intheir
    proposals like in improving regulatory instruments and approaches, and strengthening market
    development services, policy, planning, and financial management, etc. Contracts estimated to cost
    less than $100,000 equivalent may be procuredthrough selection based on consultant's qualifications
    (CQ) inaccordance with the provisions o fthe Consultant Guidelines; or through single-source
    selection (SSS), with the Bank's prior agreement, inaccordance with the provisions o f the Consultant
    Guidelines.

    Individual consultants (required to assist DA and the LGUs inthe implementation of the various
    components o f the project and project coordination support meeting the requirements set forth in
    Section 5 o f the Consultant Guidelines will be procuredunder contracts awarded on the basis o f
    competition inaccordance with the provisions o f the Consultant Guidelines.

    The World Bank`s standard documents will be used, and these include:


        0    Standard Request for Proposals-Selection o f Consultants (latest version) will be used for all
             consultant contracts. All contracts for consulting firms shall be advertised innewspapers o f
             national circulation, and any contract above $200,000 will be advertised inthe U.N.
             Development Business (UNDB),requesting expressions o f interest prior to developinga
             shortlist.


         0   Standard Sample Form o f Evaluationreport may be used for the evaluation o f proposals at
             the Borrower's discretion


D. CompetitiveResearchGrants.(US3.77 million). Basedona selective competitiveprocess, the
project will provide research grants to carry out various researchproposals for market-oriented
technology development. Guidelineswill be prepared and adopted by the DA inorder to set the criteria
for selection, and implementation o f selected proposals, includingprocurement and disbursement
arrangements. The average grant amounts are expected to be inthe range o f US$lOO,OOO to 300,000 per
proposal. Hence, individual procurements would be small, and would include mostly shopping and very
few NCBs for goods, and individual consultants and selection based on consultants' qualifications for the
technical assistance requirements.

E. WorkshopsandTrainings. (US$6.21 million). The projectwillprovide fundsto finance
workshops and trainings, including related expenditures such as travel (accommodation, meals, airfare,
etc.) and materials, and will be procured inaccordance with normal commercial practices.

OperatingCosts. (US$10.6 1million). Support for project management, operations, monitoringand
supervision activities will be provided inaccordance with existing government prescribed limits, and
procedures acceptable to the Bank.




                                                      53

                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)


                                                          Procurement Method'
                                              ~    ~~


    Expenditure Category             I C B               NCB               Other'           N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Competitive Research               0.00                 0.00              3.77             0.00            3.77
Grants under Part D(1) o f           (0.00)               (0.00)            (3.77)           (0.00)          (3.77)
the Project

2. Sub-grants under Part B            0.00                 8.00            12.00              0.00           20.00
o f the Project                      (0.00)               (6.40)            (9.60)           (0.00)         (16.00)

3. Works under Part C(2)             (0.00)                2.00              2.71             0.00            4.71
o f the Project                      (0.00)               (1.60)            (2.17)           (0.00)           (3.77)

4. Goods                             10.30                 4.19              4.00             0.00           18.48
                                     (9.27)               (3.77)            (3.60)           (0.00)         (16.64)

5. Consultants Services               0.00                 0.00              5.32             0.00             5.32
                                     (0.00)               (0.00)            (4.52)           (0.00)           (4.52)

6. Training andWorkshops              0.00                 0.00              6.21             0.00             6.21
                                     (0.00)               (0.00)            (6.21)           (0.00)           (6.21)

7. Operating Costs                    0.00                 0.00             10.61             0.00            10.61
                                     (0.00)               (0.00)            (8.49)           (0.00)           (8.49)

Total                                10.30                14.19            44.62              0.00            69.11
                                     (9.27)              (11.77)           (38.36)           (0.00)          (5 9.40)



'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Loan Funds. All costs include contingencies.

'Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services o f
contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)   re-lending project funds to local government units.



5.        Prior Review. The procedures set forth inparagraph2 ofAppendix 1to the Procurement and
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to:


          0    Works. All works contracts ofUS$500,000 or more, equivalent per contract, first 3 contracts
               eachunderNCB procurements and PSW contracts per focus areaiRFUper year (regardless of
               cost).

          0    Goods. All goods contract o f US$200,000, or more, equivalent per contract, the first 3
               contracts eachunder NCB and shopping procurements (regardless of cost), and all direct
               contracting.

          0    Services. All consultant services contracts of more than US$50,000 equivalent per individual
               consultant contract, all contracts of firms of US$lOO,OOO or more, equivalent per contract,
               and all consultancy contracts of firms procured through SSS.




                                                             54

6.       Post Review. Withrespect to each contract not subject to prior review, the procedures set forth
inparagraph4 ofAppendix 1to the Procurement andConsultant Guidelineswill apply. The ratio shall be
1:5. This post review ratio will be adjusted based on the performance o fthe executing agencies.


                  TableB: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review

                                                                                   Contracts Subject to Prior
   Expenditure Category     Contract Value Threshold
                                 (US$ thousands)           Procurement Method                Review
                                                                                         (US$ millions)
1. Works                           50andabove                     NCB             Firstthree contracts per
                                                                                  region per year, and all
                                                                                  those equal to, or greater
                                                                                  than US$500,000 (2.0)
                                    Less than 50                  PSW             Firstthree contracts per
                                                                                  region per year (2.0)
2. Goods                          200 and above                    ICB            All contracts equal to or
                                                                                   greater than US$200,000
                                                                                                (9.0)
                                   50 and above                   NCB             First three contracts (0.3)
                                    Less than 50                  Shopping         Firstthree contracts (0.1)
                                   Less than 50                Direct Contract         All contracts (0.2)
3. Services                       100and above (firm)              QBS             All contracts equal to or
                                                                                   greater than US$lOO,OOO
                                                                                                (2.0)
                               Less than 100(firm)             CQ, SSS                      All (0.5)
                                Above 50 (individual)      Individual Consultants  All contracts equal to or
                                                                                   greater than US$50,000



                   Total value o f contracts subject to prior review: US$16.30 Million

                              Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

Frequency o f procurement supervision missions proposed: One every {six} months (three months after
each supervision mission), including participation infull supervision missions once every six months,
which will be carried out by a procurement specialist fkom the Bank's Country Office.




                                                      55

                                  Table C: Allocation o f Loan Proceeds


         Expenditure Category             Amount inUS$ million            Financing Percentage
1. Competitive ResearchGrants                    3.773                          100%
underPart D(1) ofthe Project
2. Sub-grantsunder Part B ofthe Project          16.000                          80%
(a> DA                                            4.00
(b) DARFU6                                        3.OO
(c) DARFU7                                        3.00
(d) DA RFU10                                      3.00
(e) DA CAR RFU                                    3.00

3. Works under Part C(2) of the Project          3.770                           80%
4. Goods                                         16.638             100%of foreign expenditures, 100%of
                                                                  local expenditures(ex-factory cost) and
                                                                  85% of local expendituresfor other items
                                                                               procured locally
5. Consultants Services                          4.520              87% for firms and 82% for individuals
(4 DA                                            3.520
(b) DARFU6                                       0.250
(c) DARFU7                                       0.250
(d) DA RFU10                                     0.250
(e) DA CAR RFU                                   0.250
6. Training andWorkshops                         6.209                          100%
(a) DA                                           5.209
(b) DARFU6                                       0.250
(c) DARFU 7                                      0.250
(d)DA RFU10
(ej DA CAR RFU                                   0.250
                                                 0.250
7. Operating Costs                               8.490                            80%
(a) DA                                           7.490
(b) DARFU6                                       0.250
(c) DARFU7                                       0.250
(d) DA RFU10                                     0.250
(e) DA CAR RFU                                   0.250
                            Project Costs        59.400

                           Front-end Fee         0.600
                                    Total        60.000




                                                   56

                             Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
            Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


Economic Analysis

1.Background


As ruralhouseholds dependheavily on agriculture for their livelihoods, the performance o fthe sector is a
good proxy for their economic well being. However, the performance o f Philippine agriculture has been
generally poor inrecent years. Growth in agricultural GDP declined from 5.8 percent inthe 1970sto 2.1
percent inthe 1980sand to only 1.4percent inthe 1990s.The growth in gross value-added has been
negative or poor inmajor crops over the last decade.

Ruralpoverty, low farm productivity, low rural business development and consequently un-employment
and poverty, are all aggravated by the following, which highly constrain public andprivate investment in
the sector.

    0   Poor rural roadnetwork and lack o f all-weather access
    0   Inefficient and highly controlled shipping, port handling, and freight procedures
    0   Lack o f market information to facilitate efficiency and competition
    0   Few processing activities and weak production-processing linkages
    0   Little grading and packaging o f produce, combined with a market system that pays very little
        premium to farmers for quality produce
    0   A landtenure system that acts as a disincentive to agriculturalinvestment
    0   Highly constrained access to credit, especially for small farmers and fishers
    0   Weak governance, especially at the local level
    0   Weak capacity inlocal government units (LGUs)
    0   Lack o f transparency ingovernment programs, and procedures which greatly increases
        transaction costs and facilitates rent seeking
    0   Competing policies, and poor regulation enforcement

2. Linkage to Economic and Sector Initiatives and Country Assistance Strategy

Withinthe overarching goal o freducingpoverty and stimulating economic growth, the project will
contribute directly to key development objectives outlined inboth the Government's Medium Term
Philippine DevelopmentPlan (MTPDP 2001-04) as well as the Bank's County Assistance Strategy
(CAS). Specifically, it will address (one o f four) key MTPDP strategies o fpromoting agriculture and
fisheries modernizationwith social equity. The majority o fpoor Filipinos, as outlined above, reside in
rural areas and depend on farming and fishingas the main source o f livelihood. Growth inper capita rural
incomes has been stagnant and is threatened by a declining natural resource base due to highpopulation
pressure and weak resource management. The MTPDPrecognizes that meeting the objective o f
increasing rural incomes, reducingpoverty and stimulating rural development sustainably will necessitate
targeted programs aimed at modemizing the agriculture and fisheries sectors and undertaking sustainable
resource management. As part o f the drive toward modernization o f these sectors, the Government has
specifically enacted the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA 1997).




                                                      57

The Bank's strategy for assistance to the Philippine Government, aims to support actions to speed up
growth and empower the poor to more fully participate indevelopment. To achieve this, the CAS outlines
the necessary buildingblocks requiredfor sustained growth, which inter alia include enhancing
competitiveness through trade and regulatoryreform especially in agriculture, supporting small and
medium enterprise development and raising productivity by alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks. In
congruence with the MTPDP and AFMA, the CAS recognizes that "to put the rural sector on a higher
growth path, the declining competitiveness o f Philippine agriculture must be reversed". More specifically,
policy and institutional adjustments are needed to create an incentive framework for market-led growth
and to stimulate private sector investment inagriculture. The Government's long term focus on food
crops, rice and corn, has meant that inadequate attention has been given to promoting small farmers'
potential for developing diversified and commercialized production systems, which has effectively
restricted the majority o f Philippine producers from the benefits o f growing globalization inagricultural
markets.

The Diversified Farm Income Market Development Project (DFIMDP) will directly support key aspects
o f the MTPDP, AFMA and the CAS. It will provide support to the DA's budget to fund priority areas in
market development inline with provisions outlined under AFMA to promote agricultural
competitiveness. Hitherto, AFMA provisions inthe DA's budget have not been met, with notable
shortfalls inmarket development services, development o f information systems and effective regulatory
services and technology development and dissemination. Inaddition, the project will provide for specific
investments in infrastructure and post harvest facilities in focus areas to promote vertical and horizontal
market integration. Indoing this, it would improve the provision and access to market development
services and investments ininfrastructure by improving the performance o f the DA inaspects related to
(a) enhancing the quality o fmarket development services and efficient prioritization o f market
development investments; (b) strengthening o f quality assurance systems for market development; (c)
development and dissemination o f market-linked technology; and (d) enhancing budget resource
allocation and planning.

When the project i s completed, various primary, secondary and tertiary economic benefits and outcomes
are envisaged including the benefits accruing from improved public sector (DA) delivery o fmarket
development services and investments and more rational prioritization o f budgetary resources in
accordance with the DA's core functions. These inturn, will stimulate greater diversification o f farm
incomes; greater horizontal and vertical market integration; improved domestic and export trade
performance; higher profits and incomes infarming and expansion inprivate sector involvement. A
number o f multiplier effects are anticipated. For example, at the farm level, better access to price and
product information will increase producer awareness and responsiveness to markets and prices to
facilitate greater diversification; improvedpost harvest facilities and investments infarm-to-market roads
will ensure that producers do not incur inordinately highcosts relatedto transport andpost harvest losses
and are better equipped to meet expandingmarket requirements, whilst improvedregulatory and food
quality services will reduce the economic cost o f export rejection and will increase revenues from
improving domestic competition against quality imports. A more conducive market environment will also
encourage greater private sector investment inago-processing, storage and transport.

3. Methodologies and Conclusions

The DFIMDP i s classifiedas a frame work type project7, where the major investments can not be
identified or designed indetail prior to implementation and, consequently, conventional ex-ante economic
analysis cannot be undertaken. For this type o f project, therefore, the objectives o f economic analysis at

'Bank   guidelines for preparation o f Project Appraisal Documents


                                                          58

appraisal are primarily to ascertain the mechanisms for delivering outputs and assessing means that will
be employed by the project to screen activities to ensure economic viability, the criteria that will be
employed to assess different types o f activities and the adequacy o f institutional and budgetary
arrangements for doing this. However, as the direct and targeted budget support provided by the project
will be inline with Bank guidelines for procurement, an additionallevelo f cost effectiveness is factored
into procurement ofgoods, services and other eligibleexpenditures.

The bulk o f the loanproceeds (66%) will finance activities aimed at improving the provision o f public
sector goods such as advisory services, market information, regulatory and quality services and research
and technology dissemination. The mechanism by which the project will ensure that funds are specifically
usedto meet project objectives, would be through channeling loan proceeds to identified market functions
inthe DA'sbudgetto improvedelivery ofpublic goods and services targetedat market development. The
use o f loan funds this way would also be wholly consistent with provisions set out inthe AFMA and
budget reforms being introducedby the Philippine Government under its initiative to improve public
expenditure management. This initiative aims to promote aggregate fiscal discipline (spending within
affordable limits); allocative efficiency (spending on right priorities), operational efficiency (value for
money) and accords priority to expenditures that are orientated towards achieving desired outcomes.
Guidelines for this type ofperformance-based budgeting will be issuedby the DBMfor the 2005 budget,
which will be based on already agreed major final outputs (MFOs). The MFOswill be used to monitor
agency performance and budget proposals and the project would support agencies inachieving specific
MFOs, which are targeted at market development and are consistent with the project development
objective. Loan proceeds, therefore, will be used to assist the DA inmeeting fundingtargets by MFOs
related to the followingrelated market development functions as follows:


              Major FinalOutput           EstimatedFunding         Targeted Funding
                                                2001-03                  By 2008
            Market Dev Services                    1%                       7%
            Regulatory Services                    9%                      10%
            Information Services                   1%                       5%
            Infrastructure/Post                   10%                      10%
            Harvest
            Research and Tech                      6%                       8%
            PlanningM&E                            5yo                      6%

N o additional institutional mechanisms would be required to ensure that the flow o f project funds are
directed at supporting budget priorities (by MFO) outlined above, as loan proceeds would be through the
existing financial management and budget system o f the DA. Similarly, no additional capacity building
would be required inthe flow o f funds, though technical capacity building, as outlined inthe detailed
project descriptionwould be undertaken to meet project objectives under various line agencies.

The remainingpart (33%) o f the loan would be for direct investments in focus areas for development o f
market infrastructure and post harvest facilities. Project fundingwill be provided on an agreed cost-
sharing basis to Local Government UnitsLGUs and the Private sector, for eligible investments in support
o f project objectives. The types o f investments to be supported will build on existing programs o f the
DA/LGUs.However, a main objective o fthe project would be to improve efficiency ininvestment
selection and prioritization. To meet this, the project will introduce new procedures, which will be
outlined in an operations manual to ensure a more participatory, demand-driven use o fresources, within
the framework o f devolution and NG-LGUfinancing. The OM outlines criteria for eligibility o f potential
beneficiaries and provides a practical guide for technical, economic and financial selection o f potential



                                                      59

investments, to ensure that they have a highlikelihood o f successful completion and sustainable
operation. Based on existing policies o fthe DA and its experience indealing with various development
partners, the types o f considerations indetermining eligible beneficiaries include those that demonstrate
highcommitment to follow through, havethe requisite equity andhave a capacity to implement and
manage projects. Examples o f eligible beneficiaries and investments are indicatedbelow:

 Eligible Beneficiaries under the DFIMDP

   Category                I Eligible Proponents                   Assessment
   Local Government         Municipal governments, as              With financial and legal capacity to
   Units                     individual proponents or in           putupthe relevantequity counterpart
                            partnership with other municipal       With good track recordinthe
                             governments, their provincial         procurement or implementation o f
                             governments andor barangays           similar activities or projects within
                                                                   their jurisdiction.
   Private Sector           Registeredcrop, livestock and          With financial resources and other
                             fishery industryor trade              assets to meet the required equity
                             associations and cooperatives, and    With management capacity for
                             other community groups duly           commercial operation o f agri-based
                            registered as such                     entemrises

Eligible Investments under the DFIMDP

Post-harvest transportation facilities:
             o Rehabilitation, upgradingor construction o f farm-to-market roads
             o Rehabilitation, upgradingor construction o f small access bridges
             o Installation o f cableways along existing farm-to-market routes
             o Procurement o frefrigeratedvans for perishable goods

Support for development o fpost harvesthtorage facilities:
             o Rehabilitation and constructiono fprovincial or rural trading posts
             o Market collection centers andbuyingstations
             o Warehouses
             o Packinghouse
             o Cold storage or pre-coolingequipment

Promotion o f upland, small-scale and participatory irrigation development for diversified farming
operations
             o Shallow tube wells and pump systems
             o Communal and small water impoundments (rehabilitation only)
             o Dripirrigation systems

Development or upgradingo f cold chain systems for the marketing o f fishproducts

Support for local private sector grower and industry associations inthe design and implementation of
integrated production and marketing arrangements

At the time o fappraisal, only a primary list o fpotential investments have beenidentified inthe focus
areas which will be prioritized for project funding inline with selection criteria and evaluation inthe OM.
As such, detailed economic cost-benefit analysis i s not possible. However, indicative economic rates o f



                                                      60

return (ERRS)for identified investments inthe first year were calculated and it showed that the ERRS
would be greater than the Opportunity Cost o f Capital. Economic/financial models for a sample o fYear 1
subprojects have been prepared and below are the ERRSfor the said subprojects. Details o f these
economic/financial analyses are inthe Project Files, for reference.

                  Sub-project                            Location                    ERR
Rehab. o f JNR-Loo-Pan-Ayaoan-BPI Brgy Rd. BuguiadCar                                17%
Rehab.of Mantalongon-CalerionhanRd.                Cebu                              17%
Rehab. o f Kibangay-Tumpagan Rd                    LantapadBukidnon                  18%
Rehab. o f JNR-Loo-Taba-Ao-BPI Brgy Rd.           Buguias/Car                        16%




                                                    61

                                   Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
            Philippines: DiversifiedFarmIncome and Market Development Project


Environment Category

The project is classified as Category B because it i s not expected to have adverse and unprecedented
environmental impacts. Other than the market infrastructure component, which will support mostly
rehabilitation works o f existing rural infrastructure, the project will not finance huge civil works activities
and subprojects that will adversely affect the environment. Environmental soundness i s one o f the criteria
adopted by the project inscreening and approving subprojects.

Subproject Types

The project seeks to improve the competitiveness o fPhilippine agriculture through improvementsin
productivity, quality and post-harvest handling o f agricultural products. That said, the project would
support enhancement o f grades and standards, improvements o f pesticide productpackaging, pesticide
residue monitoring and enforcement. The project, under the market infrastructure component, also
supports the construction andor rehabilitation o f rural infrastructure such as farm-to-market roads, post-
harvest facilities, wholesale market collectionpoints, small-scale irrigation systems, cold storage chains,
etc.

Safeguard Policies Triggered

EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP4.01). Thispolicy i s triggered due primarily to the impacts
from small civil works activities related to the construction andor rehabilitation o f rural infrastructure to
be supported under the market infrastructure component. Relative to this, an environmental assessment
(EA) has been conductedfor subprojects identified inyear 1and an EMP corresponding to the type o f
subproject has been formulated as part o f the EA. The EA confirms the minor impacts o f the market
infrastructure subprojects given their nature and size. For subprojects inyear 2 and those to be identified
later, the Operations Manual for LGUs and Private Sector Groups for Project Preparation and
Implementationo f DFIMDP Subprojects and the ImplementationProcedures for DA's RFUs for
Processing Subprojects for Market Related Development and Investment Support include Environmental
Guidelines that spell out the procedures, requirements and processes for ensuring compliance o f
subprojects to Bank's and GOP's EA Policies. Arrangements with the DENRwill be made to facilitate
environmental screening and processing procedures o f subprojects. Also, the eligibility criteria o f
subprojects include environmental soundness, which means that subprojects with adverse and
unprecedented negative environmental impacts will be ineligible for financing.

A continuing series o fstakeholder consultations were conducted as part o fthe projectpreparationinorder
to ensure that the proposed subprojects to be funded under the project really respond to local demand, and
that strong commitment exists for the subsequent use and management o f such facilities. Also, as part o f
the EA o fyear 1subprojects, consultations with the participatingLGUs and concerned subproject
stakeholders were also separately conducted. Duringthese consultations, environmental and safeguards
issues and concerns were discussed and measures were proposedto be included inthe EMP. The draft EA
report was disclosed locally by distributingit to the central and regional offices o f the DA and
participating year 1LGUs.




                                                        62

Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04). One o f the focus areas would address fisheries development and
improved marketability and competitiveness o f fishproducts. The specifics o f what the project would
support inregard to fisheries have yet to be determined. That said, the environmental screening for
subproject eligibility would look into the impacts o f subprojects on critical natural habitats such as
mangrove areas, coral reefs, etc. Subprojects that will adversely impacts on these habitats will be
ineligible.

Pest Management (OP 4.09). To improve the overall marketability and competitiveness o f Philippine
agricultural products, the project supports enhancement o f grades and standards, regulations inpesticide
product packaging and pesticide residue monitoring and enforcement. The project also supports ways to
reduce chemical use per unit area o f crop, and to improve the safe application and handling o f agricultural
chemicals. Inthe focus areas, support would be provided for the expansion o f IntegratedPest
Management (IPM)programs already under implementation. Further, there would be no use o fproject
funds for the procurement o fpesticides, nor is there subsidy inthe Philippines for chemicalpesticides.

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). Indigenouspeoples inhabit certain portions o fthe selected focus
areas, Care will be neededto ensure that indigenous people inthe focus areas along with other vulnerable
groups are not disadvantaged, and to the extent possible are benefitedby the development expected to
take place through improved productivity, market linkages and agri-business development. Incases where
infrastructure subprojects are situated within IPancestral domains, LGUproponents would need to
secure free and prior informed consent from the IPcommunity as requiredunder the IndigenousPeoples
RightsAct (IPRA). However, negative effects ofproject interventions on'indigenous communities, to the
extent they may occur, are not expected to be large. On the other hand, the participatory planning
approaches being integrated into the project design provide opportunities for the inclusion o f IPSand IP
concerns in subproject interventions, market information and networking and capacity buildingo f
farmers/growers associations. The social assessment conducted inthe four focus areas inconjunction
withproject preparation included an assessment o f the situations, concerns and interests o f IPSinthe
focus areas which will be used as guide infacilitating their engagement and benefit from the project.
Consultations were likewise made with the Regional Offices o f the National Commission on Indigenous
Peoples (NCIP) to ensure that project processes comply with the local legislation on IPS(IPRA). An IP
Policy Framework has likewise been drafted to guide project implementers on IPmainstreamingand in
avoiding negative social impacts on IPSfromproject activities. Outcomes o f the consultations with IPS
duringthe SA preparation are also being integrated into the design o fthe operations manual for the
project.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12). Lands to be utilized for the rehabilitation o f farm to market
roads, construction o f local smallholder market facilitiedinfrastructure are mostly government lands or
donated private lands from producer/growers groups who requested for these infrastructure investments.
As such, very minimalinvoluntary land taking is expected. Insome cases, landacquisitionwould
essentially involve minor expansion (1 to 2 meters) o f certainroad sections that would affect some
privately owned lots. The S A being conducted as part o f the preparatory activities includes an assessment
o f the land acquisition requirements and involuntary resettlement impacts o f the proposed Year 1
subprojects. Moreover, a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework has been draftedby DA
to guide project implementers inminimizing and handling involuntary resettlement impacts o f future
subprojects. Both the SA findings and Policy Frameworks are being disclosed to various stakeholders
through the conduct of validatiodfeedback sessions undertaken by the DA's Preparation Team. Feedback
from stakeholders on the SA findings and the framework have been integrated inthe operations manual.
Boththe IPand Land Acquisition Policy Frameworks have beenpostedlocally inthe DA's Regional
offices and the participating LGUsinthe four focus areas for local disclosure. These have likewise been
forwarded to the Bank's Infoshop after review by the Bank's Regional Safeguards Committee.



                                                     63

Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements

There i s enough experience inthe Philippines on the types o f rural infi-astructure subprojects to be
financed by the project. The following implementationarrangements as regard subproject screening for
environmental impacts and EMP formulation and implementation, as well as, monitoring shall be
followed:

 Subproject Screening. The screening of subprojects to evaluate potential environmentalimpacts and
soundness, including its coverage or non-coverage under the Philippine EIA, will be conducted by the
DA-Regional Field Unit,inconsultation with the DENR-Environmental Management Bureau (DENR-
EMB).Arrangements will be made withthe DENR for the development o fa screeningchecklist that will
filter out subprojects that will have adverse environmental impacts, including the determinationo f the
coverage or non-coverage o f the subproject with the Philippine EIA Law.

EMP Formulation.An eligible subproject, under the PhilippineEIA Law, canbe classifiedas: (a) non-
covered; and (2) covered. Non-covered subprojects (mostly rehabilitation) are not expected to undergo
the usual DENRreview and clearance process. Instead, proponents will be requiredto submit a simple
EMPthat will address the construction impacts andoperation and maintenance issues. The EMPwill be
reviewed and cleared by the DA-RFU.Covered subprojects (new construction) will needto undergo the
DENRreview process andcomply itsrequirements through the submission of anInitialEnvironmental
Examination (IEE) Checklist or an IEEReport to be issued with an Environmental Compliance
Certificate (ECC).

EMPReview and Approval. EMPo fanon-covered subproject will bereviewedandapprovedbythe
DA-RFUwhile the IEEChecklist or IEEReport o fcovered subprojects will bereviewed and clearedby
the DENR-EMBRegional Office.

EMPImplementation. Relevant measures inthe EMPandIEEChecklist or IEEReportwillbe
incorporatedinto the detailed engineering of subprojects and the program o f works (POWs) o f the
proponents. Relevant measures will also be includedinthe contracts to ensure adherence by contractors.

Compliance Monitoring and Reporting. Monitoring on complianceby LGUsand contractors will be
done by the DA-RFU, incoordination with the DENR-EMBRegional Office.

Staffing Arrangements

LGU.The LGUmay designate either its MunicipalPlanningand Development Officer, Municipal
Agricultural Officer (MAO) or Municipal Environment and Natural Resource Officer (MENRO),where
present, to be the focal person on environment and other safeguard aspects. The LGUfocal person will be
responsible in: (1) preparing the EMP or IEEChecklist or IEEReport; (2) ensuring that measures are
implemented by the contractor; (3) monitoring compliance by contractor;. (4) reporting complianceto
DA-RFU.

DA-RFU.The DA-RFUwill designate a focal personon safeguards among its organic staff. The focal
person will assist the LGUin: (1) preparing the EMP or IEEand other safeguards documents; (2) review
the adequacy o f the EMP or IEE; and (3) monitor compliance o f LGUon the EMP.




                                                     64

PCO. The PCOwill designate from its organic staff or hire a Safeguard Specialist who will oversee the
implementation o f environment and safeguard commitments o f the project and the subproject proponents
and provide technical assistance to the DA's Regional FieldUnits. The Specialist will also coordinate
with DENR-EMBfor the capacity buildingactivities on safeguards for DA-RFU,LGUs, Grower's
Association and other stakeholders.

DENR-EMB.Arrangements will be made with EMB for the screening, review andprocessingo f
subprojects to ensure timely approval and for any technical assistance and capacity buildingactivities for
the DA, LGU, Grower's Associations, etc..




                                                   65

                           Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
            Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarketDevelopmentProject


1. Timetable
                                                          Planned                          Actual
PCNreview                                               09/03/2002                       09/05/2002
Initial PID to PIC                                      09/20/2002                       09/20/2002
Initial ISDS to PIC                                     09/20/2002                       11/29/2002
Appraisal                                               02/28/2004                       02/12/2004
Negotiations                                            04/19/2004                       05/03/2004
BoardRVP approval                                       06/22/2004
Planneddate o f effectiveness                            1010112004
Planneddate o f mid-termreview                           1213112006
Plannedclosing date                                     06/30/2009

2. KeyInstitutionsandProjectGrants

The institution incharge o f project preparation was Philippine Department o f Agriculture.

Two Japan PHRD Grants amounting to US$828,340 (TF050628 and TF 051040) were receivedand used
for the preparation o f the project to contract services for the following preparation activities: (a) provision
of technical assistance and equipment to support a participatory process withrural communities infour
project focus areas, to identify, prioritize andsubsequently designthe technical andinfi-astructuralsupport
needed to enable small-scale farmers to better respondto market demands; (b) provision o ftechnical
assistancefor the institutional assessmentand functional strengthening o fthe Department o fAgnculture for
the purpose o frealigningthe functions o f the Department o fAgriculture; (c) provision of technical     .
assistance to facilitate highlevel consultations on emergingpolicy issues; d) provisiono ftechnical
assistancefor conducting a performance audit o f quarantine services and for preparing an implementation
plan streamlining the Sanitary and Phytosanitary quarantine service system; and (e) provision o ftechnical
assistancefor management and supervision o f activities carried out under the grant.




                                                       66

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                     Title                           Unit
Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron        Task Team Leader and Senior Operations Officer        EASRD
Dominic Aumentado                               Procurement Specialist                  EACPO
Joseph G. Reyes                           Financial Management Specialist               EACPO
Jose Tiburcio Nicolas                   Operations Officer (Social Safeguards)          EASES
Josefo Tuyor                              Operations Officer (Environment)              EASEN
Mary Judd                                       Senior Anthropologist                   EASES
SusanHume                                   Country ProgramCoordinator                  EACPQ
Mei Wang                                            Legal Counsel                       LEGEA
Anthony Toft                                        Legal Counsel                       LEGEA
HungKimPhung                                 Senior Disbursement Officer                LOAG3
Fe Timonera                                        Finance Officer                      LOAG3
Douglas Fomo                                       FA0Consultant
Ajay Markanday                                     FA0Consultant
XiemingLiu                                         FA0Consultant
Ines Pinat-Bagadion                                   Consultant
Guia Minguez                                          Consultant
Leo Rodaje                                            Consultant
Steven Jaffee                                       Peer Reviewer                       PRMTR
Joachim von Amsberg                                 Peer Reviewer                       LCC5A
h i n dGupta                                        Peer Reviewer                       EASFP
Cielito Habito                                      Peer Reviewer
Patria Consuelo Morente                           ProgramAssistant                      EACPF
BrendaPhillips                                    ProgramAssistant                      EASRD
Esperanza Sadiua                                   Team Assistant                       EACPF



Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bankresources:                                                         US$408,079
    2. Trust funds:
               PHRD TF 051040: Bank-executed                                  US$38,937
               PHRD TF 050628: Recipient-executed                             US$297,755
               Total Trust Funds                                              US$336,692
    3. Total:                                                                 US$744,771




                                                  67

                      Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
    Philippines:DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject


1.  Detailed Project Implementation Plans
2.  Project Preparation Reports Preparedby the Department o f Agriculture with Hassall and
    Associates
3.  Global Competitiveness Strategies for Philippine Agribusiness Study, 2000
4.  Project Preparation Aide Memoires
5.  Audit o fPhilippine Quarantine Procedures, Ray Miyamoto, 2003
6.  BenchmarkingStudy inBukidnon, FA0 Study, 2002
7.  ImprovingGovernance for Agriculture Bureaucracy, 2000
8.  Highlightson the Social Assessment and ProposedParticipationFramework
9.  Environmental Assessment Final Report
10. Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Subprojects
11. Guidelines for IndigenousPeoples Development
12. Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, LandInvoluntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation o f
     Project Affected Persons
13. Detailed Project Cost Tables
14. Procurement Plans
15. Economic/Financial Models o f a Sample o f Year 1 Subprojects
16. Financial Management Assessment Report
17.  Accomplished Financial ManagementAssessment Questionnaires by DA's Implementing
     Agencies




                                           68

                                       Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                 Philippines: DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject

                                                                                                              Difference between
                                                                                                              expected and actual
                                                         Original Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                               IBRD        IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Fm. Rev'd

PO66397    2004 PH-RuralPowerProject                    10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   10.86    0.00        0.00
PO66076    2004 JUDICIAL REFORMSUPPORT                  21.90      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   21.68   -0.22        0.00
                PROJECT
PO70899    2004 PH LAGUNA DE BAY ENVIRONMENT             5.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    5.00    0.00        0.00
PO71007    2003 PH-SecondAgrarian Reform                50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   48.50    3.57        0.00
                CommunitiesDev
PO73488    2003 PH- ARMM Social Fund                    33.60      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   31.98    2.68        0.00
PO77012    2003 PHKALAHI-CIDSS PROJECT                100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   94.91    0.57        0.00
PO69916    2002 PH-2nd Social ExpenditureManagement   100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   70.33  -10.34        0.00
PO69491    2002 PH-LGUURBANWATER APL2                   30.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   33.24    8.20        0.00
PO66509    2001 PH-MMURTRIP-Bicycle Nwk                  0.00      0.00      0.00       1.30   0.00    1.35    0.45        0.00
PO57731    2001 PH-Metro Manila UrbanTransport          60.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   54.05   14.65         0.00
PO66069    2001 PH - LAND ADMIN & MANAGEMENT             4.79      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    2.30    2.31         0.00
PO65113    2000 PH-SOCIALEXPENDITURE MGMT             100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   12.61   12.61         0.00
PO39019    2000 PH-FirstNat'l Rds Improve.            150.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   84.18   71.73         0.00
PO59933    2000 PH - COASTAL   MARINE                    0.00      0.00      0.00       1.25   0.00    1.12    1.60         0.33
PO58842    2000 PH - MINDANAO     RURAL DEV             27.50      0.00      0.00       0.00   5.50    7.68   13.18         0.67
PO48588    1999 PH-LGU FINANCE& DEV.                  100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00  40.00   51.18   51.03         4.93
PO57598    1999 PH-RURAL FINANCE 111                  150.00       0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   61.28   61.28         0.00
PO04566    1998 PH-EARLY CHILD DEV.                     19.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    5.68    5.68         0.00
PO04576    1998 PH-WATER DISTRICTSDEV.                  56.80      0.00      0.00       0.00   6.53   17.01   41.74         0.07
PO04595    1998 PH - COMMUNITY     BASED RES0           50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00  12.00   18.71   29.61       17.03
P004602    1997 PH-THIRD ELEMENTARY                   113.40       0.00      0.00       0.00  20.10   41.19   60.73       29.61
                EDUCATION
PO04613    1997 PH - WATER    RESOURCES DEVE            58.00      0.00      0.00       0.00  16.27    6.42   22.69         3.79
PO37079    1997 PH- AGRARIAN REFORMCOMM                 50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    0.26   -0.14         0.00
PO04611    1996 PH-MANILA SEWERAGE I1                   57.00      0.00      0.00       0.00  20.90   20.93   41.83         0:91
PO04571    1996 PH-TRANS GRID REINFORCE               250.00       0.00      0.00       0.00  79.51   15.50   79.63        10.46
                                               Total: 1,596.99     0.00      0.00       2.55 200.81  717.95  515.07       67.80




                                                              69

                                                PHILIPPINES
                                            STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                    Committed                      Disbursed

                                                  IFC                            IFC

FY Approval Company                     Loan     Equity   Quasi  Partic. Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic

2002        AEI                         1.oo       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001102     APW Trade                   0.67       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67   0.00     0.00   0.00
0           Alaska Milk                 0.00       0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.62     0.00   0.00
1996        All Asia Growth             0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996        All Asia Manager            0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996        AllAsiaVen Mgmt             0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000        Asian Hospital              7.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002        Banco de Oro                0.00       0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    20.00   0.00
1997        Bataan PIE                  29.82      0.00    10.00 116.55   29.82   0.00    10.00  116.55
1998        DrysdaleFood                10.96      0.00    0.00    7.80   10.96   0.00     0.00   6.60
2002        Eastwood                    20.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001        Filinvest                   22.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1998        H&Q PV 111                  0.00       5.76    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.76     0.00   0.00
1989        H&QPV-I                     0.00       0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.59     0.00   0.00
1993        H&QPV-I1                    0.00       1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.11     0.00   0.00
2000        MFIMEP                      0.00       0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.12     0.00   0.00
2001        MNTC                        46.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    19.81  0.00     0.00   0.00
2003        MWC                         32.04      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1970/72100  Mariwasa                    11.22      0.00    3.00    0.00    11.22  0.00     3.oo   0.00
1993194     Mindanao Power              0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1993        Mirant Pagbilao             21.00      10.00   0.00    0.60   21.00   10.00    0.00   0.60
2002        PSMT Philippines            12.50      0.00    0.00    0.00    10.20  0.00     0.00   0.00
1992        PilipinasShell              0.00       1.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.56    0.00   0.00
2000        PlantersBank                0.00       0.00    8.71    0.00    0.00   0.00     8.71   0.00
1998        PryceGases                  13.00      0.00    0.00    5.00    13.00  0.00     0.00    5.00
2000        SME.COM                     0.00       0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.12     0.00    0.00
2000        STRADCOM                    11.99      0.00    8.00    0.00    9.59   0.00     8.00    0.00
2003        SVI                         0.00       4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1995        Sua1Power                   24.67      17.50   0.00   97.54    24.67  17.50    0.00   97.54
1992        UnionCement                 0.00       5.63    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.63     0.00    0.00
1994        Walden Mgmt                 0.00       0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.05     0.00    0.00
1994        Walden Ventures             0.00       1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.04    0.00    0.00
                       Total portfolio: 263.87    48.18    49.71  227.49  191.94  44.10   49.71  226.29




                                                        70

                              ~


                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval Company                        Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic.

2004        Coastal Road                 0.02         0.00      0.02     0.04
2002        Eastwood                     0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
2000        LTO Project                  0.00         0.00      0.00     0.02
2001        PEDF                         0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
2002        S&R Price                    0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00

                Total pendingcommitment:    0.02      0.00      0.02     0.06




                                        71

                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                 Philippines: DiversifiedFarmIncomeandMarket DevelopmentProject
                                                                                    I
                                                                  East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia B  middle-
                                                   Philippines  Pacific  income         Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                             79.9    1,638     2,411                        Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atiasmethod, US$)                           1,020     950     1,390
                                                                                                                 T      -
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                            615     1,740    3,352

Average annual growth, 1998-02                                                      I
Population (%)                                              2.2      10        1.0
Laborforce(%)                                               2.3      12        1.2      GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                        per                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-02)                                   capita                                enrollment
Poverty (%of populationbelownationalpo vertyiifla) Y        28
Urban population (%of fotalpopulatiofl)                     60       36        49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                              70       69        69
Infant mortality (per looolivebirths)                       29       33        30
Childmalnutrition (%ofchildrenunder5)                       32        15        11               Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)            86       76        61
lliiteracy(%ofpopulationage a+)                              5        Q         Q
Gross primaryenroilment (%of school-age population)         113      0 6       111    1         --  -Philippines
                                                                                           ~~


   Male                                                     114      0 5       111                   Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                   1Q       0 6       10     I

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1982     1992     2001     2002
                                                                                        Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                37.3     53.0     714       77.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                     27.9     213      V.6       6.6
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                  20.3     29.1     46.5     48.9                              Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                        22.1     6.4      8.0       8.7
Gross national savingslGDP                           ..    8.7      25.5     24.8

Current account balance/GDP                       -8.6      -16      19        5.4
Interestpayments/GDP                               2.5      2.5      4.0       6.4
Total debtlGDP                                    65.4     62.3     60.9     77.7
Total debt service/exports                        42.6     24.5     216      24.6
Present value of debUGDP                                            77.4
Present value of debuexports                                        Q2.7                                    Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002 2002-08
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                       1.6      3.7      3.2      4.6
GDP DercaDita
       .   .                             -0.8      1.4       10      2.4


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY                                                                                                               I
                                                1982      1992    2001      2002
(%of GDP)                                                                               Growth o f investment and GDP (%)

Agriculture                                       23.3     218       15.1     14.9      2o   T
Industry                                          36.8     32.8     316       316       ,o   '-,,",m

  Manufacturing                                   25.1     24.2
Services                                          37.8     45.3

Private consumption                               68.6     73.9                                       -
                                                                    682      695       .?"-
Generalgovernment consumption                      9.1      9.7     P 6       Pa
Imports of goods and services                     26.1     34.0     470      478                            -*-GDI     W G D P


                                             1982-92 1992.02                2o02      1
(averageannualgrouth)                                                                   Growth o f exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                        1.5      2.0      3 7       3 5     20                                               II
Industry                                           0.1      3.5      2 3
  Manufacturing                                    1.3      3.5      2 9
Services                                           3.1      4.6      3 7       5 4     -10
Private consumption 2/                             2.6      3.9       19
Generalgovernment consumption                      1.9      3.9      0 3
Gross domestic investment                          0.4      2.4      13       -06   i               --
Imports of goods andservices                       7.0       5.1    -08        4 9                       --.Exports   -Imports




                                                                      72

                                                                                                                      Philimines
                                                    ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982        1992     2001    2002            Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)
Consumer prices                                         8.9      6.1      3 1     '0-l5 I
Implicit GDP deflator                       8.7         7.9      6.6     4 5

Government finance                                                                    5

(%of GDP, includes currenf grants)
Current revenue                                        18.0     25.5     143
                                                         2.1    -2.3    -5 3 _____I
Current budget balance
Overallsurplusideficit                                  -12     -4.0    -5 3                  ,foe--GDPdeflator     -CPI


TRADE
                                         1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                                 and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                  9,824    31,243  34,383     1!Export
                                                                               i40      ooo                                        1
 Electronics/Telecom                                 2,753    73,699  18,583
 Garments                                             2,140   2,403    2,391
 Manufactures                                        7993    28,340    31,181
Total imports (cif)                                  14,529   31,986  33,975
 Food                                                  599     1,348   1,384
 Fueland energy                                      2,050    3,372    3,273                                                       I
 Capitalgoods                                        4.023    11,438  13,532

Export price index(?395=X)O)                                                                  96   97    98     99    00

Import price index(?995=X)O)                                                                       exports          mirwortsO1   O2
Terms of trade (S95=KJO)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                        Current account balance t o GDP (X)

Exports of goods andservices             6.825       14,566   34,391  37,439
Imports of goods andservices             9,467       6,834    37,184  38,295          "1
Resource balance                         -2,642      -2,268   -2,793   -856

Net income                               -1,044        593     3,669   4,550
Net current transfers                       486         8ff     447      503

Currentaccount balance                   -3,200       -858     1,323   4,297

Financingitems (net)                      2,471       2,350    -1,131 -4,857
Changes in net reserves                     729      -1,492     -292     660           10 1
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                4,338    15,658   73,180
Conversion rate(DEC, ioca//US$)             8.5        25.5     510      518

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   j    Composition o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed      24,413  33,005      57,758   59,99
  IBRD                                     1,529      4,89     3,250   3,324                            A:3,324
  IDA                                        49         736      204     208
Total debt service                        3,513      4,302     9,004   11,271
  IBRD                                      I74        640       491     479
 IDA                                          0           2        6       7
Compositionof net resource flows
 Official grants                             70        208        I%? 74
 Official creditors                         469       1,457    -258      -39
 Private creditors                        1,138      -1,330    2,883   1,057
 Foreign direct investment                   73        228      1142   1,026
 Portfolio equity                             0        360     1,050    1,912              F 33,592  \.-_-I

World Bank program
 Commitments                                541        630        90     200          A - IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                         -
 Disbursements                              259        578       QO      ff7           B IDA
                                                                                         -        D- Other mltilaterai  F Private
                                                                                                                            ~
 Principal repayments                        61        325       312     327          C-IMF                             G-Short-term




WB16201




                                                                   73


MAP SECTION


