RP221
January 2004
DIVERSIFIED         FARM     INCOME AND          MARKET
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PO'LICY FRAMEWORK FOR LAND ACQUISITION,
INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT, AND REHABILITATION
OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
1.    INTRODUCTION
A. The Project
The Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project is a proposed activity of the
Department of Agriculture (DA) that seeks the assistance of the World Bank for a Sector
Investment and Maintenance Loan to put in place necessary investment in essential services
that are in accordance with the envisioned public sector role under the Agriculture and
Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA). The goal of the Project is to stimulate rural growth
and farmer incomes by enhancing competitiveness of Philippine agriculture and fisheries
commodities and market-oriented private sector-led investments.
The objectives of the Project are as follows:
a) Arrest and reverse the declining competitiveness of Philippine commodities in
domestic and foreign markets
b) Greater diversification and profitability of farm enterprises
c) Increased flow of private investments into market-oriented enterprises.
Under agricultural promotion policies before the enactment of the AFMA, the role of the
government was to push production targets to achieve such development objectives.
Current policies as spelled out by the AFMA seek to delimit such intervention by governrment
so that the private sector can play out its more important role in business development and
financing. Hence, the DFIMDP will concentrate institutional development efforts of DA
towards a more focused and strategic role rather than an expanded and untargeted role in
the achievement of the aforecited objectives. With financial and technical support from the
World Bank, the basic strategy for achieving the above objectives is the effective provision of
public services along a few of the most critical functions that are mandated by the AFMA.
The components of the Project includes support for Market Development Services,
strengthening Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development, Market-Linked
Technology Development and Dissemination, enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and
Planning Systems, and Investment Support for Local Market Development Subprojects
(Focus Area Component) 
B. Policy Framework
The DFIMDP rural infrastructure component is anticipated to have minimal adverse impacts
on the living conditions of people living in settlements surrounding the sites due to minimal
land acquisition as most of the sub-projects are focused on improvement of already existing i
infrastructure in the barangay or municipality. Nonetheless, the implementation of each sub-
project under the DFIMDP will make an objective assessment of any possible impacts on
local communities, once the project specifications are determined and the bounds of their L i



influence area adequately mapped. Such an assessment shall be documented and fully
disclosed BEFORE the project is formally approved by the DA and finally selected for
funding support. To adequately address the rehabilitation and compensation of. the people
who are to be affected by any land acquisition for any of the sub-projects, the Department of
Agriculture under the DFIMDP adopts this Policy Framework for Land Acquisition,
Involuntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (the Resettlement
Policy).
The principal objective of the Resettlement Policy is to ensure that all project affected
persons will be compensated justly for their losses and provided with assistance to improve,
or at least maintain, their pre-implementation living standards and income-earning capacity.
The Resettlement Policy lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of
entitlements, legal and institutional framework, modes of compensation, peoples
participation features and grievance procedures that will guide the compensation of the
project affected people. It is in large part an adaptation of the existing Resettlement Policy
adopted by the Government of the Philippines under the Mindanao Rural Development
Project (November 8, 1999), a measure that is meant to avoid the proliferation of varying
implementation policies for different programs and projects of the DA.
C. Project Affected People
The project affected persons (PAPs) include the following persons to be identified by the
baseline information collected for each of the proposed sub-project:
a) Person whose house is in part of in toto affected (permanently or temporarily)
by the sub-project;
b) Person whose premise and/or agricultural land is in part or in toto affected
permanently or temporarily by the sub-project;
c) Person whose crops (annual and perennial) and trees are affected in part or
in toto by the sub-project; and
d) Person whose business is in part or in toto affected (permanently or
temporarily) by the sub-project.
D. Principles and Objectives
The principles outlined in the World Bank's Operational Policy/Bank Procedures 4.12 have
been adopted in this Resettlement Policy. In this regard, the following principles and
objectives would be applied:
a) Acquisition of land and other assets will be minimized;
b) All PAPs residing or cultivating land along an alignment or segment of
alignment to be rehabilitated, improved or constructed under the
Project, as of the date of the baseline surveys, are entitled to
compensation sufficient to assist them in improving or at least
maintaining their pre-implementation living standards, income earning
capacity and production levels. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost
will not bar the PAP from entitlement to such compensation.
c) The compensation to be provided are: (i) compensation at
replacement cost for houses and other affected structures; (ii)
agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to
the PAP; where land is not available then compensation at



replacement cost will be provided for agricultural land acquired; (iii)
replacement of premise/residential land of equal size acceptable to
the PAPs; and (iv) transfer and subsistence allowances.'
d) Where a landowner agrees to compensation for land to be acquired,
he shall be paid an amount equal to the replacement cost/market
value of the affected portion of his land which shall be determined by
an independent appraiser who is a member of an accredited local
appraisal association working in accordance with internationally
recognized standards or by a Provincial Appraisal Committee.
e) Replacement of agricultural land, where possible, will be as close as
possible to the land that was lost and acceptable to the PAPs.
f) Plans for acquisition of land and provision of compensation will be
carried out in consultation with the PAPs, to ensure minimal
disturbance. Entitlements will be provided to PAPs no later than one
month prior to expected start-up of works at the respective sub-project
site.
g) Financial and physical resources for compensation will be made
available as and when required.
h) Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design,
planning, consultation and implementation of the Inventories.
i) In case of voluntary donations from community members, it will be
ensured that the donation is indeed voluntarily given, that the donor is
the legitimate owner of such lands, and that the donor is fully informed
of the nature of the sub-project and the implications of donating the
property.
j) Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of the action plans will be carried out.
2.     ENTITLEMENT POLICY
The DA authorizes the RFU concerned, working closely with the LGU, to follow the
conditions and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy. PAPs will be entitled to the
following types of compensation and rehabilitation measures:
a) PAPs losing residential land and structures
1 The method for defining replacement cost is the "valuation of assets which helps determine the amount
sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs...For losses that cannot easily be valued or
compensated In monetary terms (e.g. access to public services, customers and suppliers, or to fishing, grazing or
forest areas), attempts are made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and
earning opportunities. Where domestic law does not meet the standard of compensation at full replacement cost,
compensation under domestic law is supplemented by additional measures necessary to meet the replacement
cost standard".



i) The provision of replacement residential land (house site and garden) of equivalent
size satisfactory to the PAP; cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of
the structures, without depreciation;
ii) If the PAP so wishes and the portion of the land to be lost represents 20% or less
of the total area of the residential land area, and the remaining land is still a viable
residential lot, cash compensation, at full replacement cost (market value), may be
provided to the PAP;
iii) If after acquisition, the residential land and/or structure is insufficient to rebuild the
residential structure lost, then at the request of the PAP the entire residential land
and structure will be acquired at full replacement cost, without depreciation; and
iv) Tenants, who have leased a house for residential purposes will be provided with a
cash grant of three months rental fee at the prevailing market rate in the area, and
will be assisted in identifying alternative accommodation.
b) PAPs losing agricultural land and crops
i) The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land will be through
provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal productive capacity,
satisfactory to the PAP. However, if the PAP so wishes and the portion of the
land to be lost represents 20% or less of the total area of the landholding, and the
remaining land is still a viable economic holding, cash compensation, at full
replacement cost (market value), may be provided to the PAP;
ii) If more than 20% of a villager's agricultural land is acquired and the remaining
holding is not viable, then the sub-project will acquire the entire landholding and
provide compensation of the acquired land at direct land replacement;
iii) PAPs will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit or industrial
trees at market price; and
iv) PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the sub-project will be
compensated for their loss of income, standing crops and for the cost of soil
restoration and damaged infrastructure.
c) PAPs losing business
The mechanism for compensating loss of business will be: (1) the provision of alternative
business site of equal size and-accessibility to customers, satisfactory to the PAP; (2) cash
compensation for lost business structure reflecting full replacement cost of the structures,
without depreciation; and (3) cash compensation for the loss of income during the
construction period.
d) Voluntary Land Donations
Should the owner of the land decide to donate the property on a conditional basis, the terms
and conditions for the temporary use (usufruct rights) of the property must be clearly stated
in the Conditional Deed of Donation document. Under these situations, the following
safeguards need to be applied, based on their relevance to the cases being encountered by
sub-project proponents:



i)  An assessment that the affected persons do not suffer a substantial loss affecting
his/her economic viability as a result of the donation;
ii)  Certification from the LGUs and the proponents, that the land is free of claims or
encroachments from any third party
iii)  A duly notarized deed of donation to the association or the LGU (barangay,
municipality, province) concerned, with copies of the donation papers furnished to
the Office of the Municipal Assessor and the Provincial Register of Deeds for
proper annotation/recording
iv)  Declaration or ownership with waiver of claims for affected assets
v)   Waiver of rights/quit claim (for plants, trees, structures owned by the tenant or
informal settler)
3.    PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATIONS
The PAPs will participate throughout the various stages of the planning and implementation
of the resettlement activities. For these purposes and prior to any resettlement activities, the
PAPs will be fully informed about the Subproject and about the provisions of this
'Resettlement Policy at meetings held by the respective implementing staff at provincial,
municipal and barangay levels.
Each household PAP will be fully consulted about acceptable alternatives and options and
informed by the RFU staff at municipal and barangay fevels of their entitlements and
rehabilitation options, where applicable.
4.    RESETTLEMENT PLAN
A. Inventory and Entitlement
An inventory for each road, bridge, irrigation canal, water supply pipe alignment or segment
thereof by the representative of Municipal LGU and other municipal agencies concerned with
resettlement and assisted by the Provincial Government. This will be approved by the
Review Committee (RC) of the Department of Agriculture-Regional Field Unit (DA-RFU)) for
any sub-project, and submitted to the World Bank (Manila Office) for its concurrence.
The information for an inventory will include the following information for each PAP
household (see attachment 1);
a) number of persons and names;
b) amount and area of all the residential plots lost;
c) amount, category/type and area of agricultural land lost;
d) quantity and types of crops and trees lost;
e) quantity and category of any fixed assets lost;
f) productive assets lost as a percentage of total productive assets; and
g) temporary damage to productive assets.



The entitlements of assets and land affected-are calculated based on the above information
(see Attachment 2)
B. Full Resettlement Plan and Survey
In case where the potential adverse impact of a sub-project on PAPs is major, a full
resettlement plan for each such road or segment of road or irrigation system or any sub-
project will be prepared by the LGU and assisted by the National Housing Authority (NHA) in
accordance with the provisions of this Resettlement Policy.2 The full resettlement plan will
include among others: (a) a completed inventory; (b) detailed compensation and entitlement
calculations for each affected household, where applicable; (c) a detailed socioeconomic
survey of PAPs describing their age, sex, ethnicity, education, main occupation, sources of
income per year (see Attachment 3); (d) location, area and category of the replacement
residential and agricultural land to be provided, if that be the case; (e) a time-bound action
plan for implementation; and (g) arrangements for external monitoring and evaluation.
Attachment 4 provides an outline of information required by a full resettlement plan.
5.    INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Institutional Arrangements
The responsibility for implementing the Resettlement Policy, the inventories and the
resettlement plans are as follows:
a)    The overall responsibility for enforcement of the Resettlement Policy rests with
the head of the DA who will ensure that the proponent LGU or grower
association undertake the activities accordingly. The LGU is responsible for
preparing the inventories, the resettlement plans and for the day-to-day
implementation thereof within their respective jurisdiction. The Barangay
leaders and the Barangay Committees will ensure the active and effective
consultation  and  participation of the PAPs in the preparation' and
implementation of the resettlement plans.
b)    Funds for implementing the inventories and resettlement plans will be
provided by the LGU based on budgetary requirements established by
Municipal and Barangay Committees in consultation with the PAPs.
2 Impacts are considered minor if the affected people are not physically displaced and less than 10% of their
productive assets are lost. If the reverse were to occur, the impacts will be considered major.



B. Implementation Schedule
A detailed implementation schedule of the various activities to be undertaken will be included
in each inventory and resettlement plan.
Payment of compensation and provision of other entitlements (in cash or in-kind) shall will be
satisfactorily completed for each sub-project prior to the World Bank giving "no objection" for
award of contract for civil works.
The same time requirement would apply if PAPs voluntarily contribute any part of their land
and/or assets for the sub-project.3 That is all deeds of donations and other relevant legal
documents. for each sub-project shall be satisfactorily completed prior to the World Bank
giving "no objection" for award of contract of civil works.
C. Complaints and Grievances
Complaints and grievances relating to any aspect of the resettlement entitlements and/or
activities, including the determined area and price of the lost assets, will be handled as
follows:
PAPs will present their complaints and grievances to the RFU Review Committee, which will
refer them to the LGU to prepare a written response to the PAP, within fifteen (15) calendar
days of receiving the complaint. If the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the LGU; the
PAP may present the case to the Review Committee within fifteen (15) calendar days of
receiving the written response from the LGU. The RC will not release fund for
implementation of the subproject until the resettlement plan is resolved.
PAPs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees.
D. Actions to be done on affected lands covered by Commonwealth Act 141
(These are lands that have right-of-way restrictions ranging from 20-m to
60-m in favor of government).
Lands covered by Commonwealth Act 141 shall have a road right-of-way restriction of at
least 20-m. Althoug'h the owners of such lands are not entitled to compensation for land
losses within the limit prescribed by law, an assessment shall be made by the subproject
proponent on the extent of loss and the vulnerability of those affected by land acquisition and
undertake special mreasures/supplemental assistance where necessary.
E. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Implementation of the inventories and resettlement plans will be regularly supervised and
monitored by the LGU in coordination with the respective RFU PMED. The findings will be
recorded in quarterly reports to be submitted to the DA PCO.
3It is common practice for villagers to volunteer community use of small amounts of their land or assets without
compensation. If this is the case, similar procedures of full cohsultation with village-donors, complaint and
grievance mechanism, and monitoring be established by each municipality to ensure that the land is donated of
the person's own free will, that as a result of this act the person and his household are not adversely impacted,
and that they can have an established recourse to voice their complaints. Detailed inventory and survey of land
acquired should be undertaken. The donation should be covered by a deed of donation and other legally required
documents.



Internal monitoring and supervision by Review Committee will:
a) Verify that the baseline information of all PAPs has been carried out and that the
valuation of assets lost or damaged, the provision of compensation and other
entitlements, and relocation has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Resettlement Policy, the respective inventory and resettlement plan.
b) Oversee that the inventory and resettlement plan is implemented as designed and
approved.
c) Verify that the funds for implementing the inventory and resettlement plan are
provided by the Municipality and/or Province to the Barangay Committee in a timely
manner and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are used by
the Barangay Committee in accordance with the provisions of the respective
inventory and resettlement plan.
d) Record all grievances and their resolution and ensure that complaints are dealt with
in timely manner.
An external agency or agencies will be retained by DA as and when needed, to periodically
carry out independent monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the inventories
and resettlement plans. The external agencies can be from academic or research
institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGO) or independent consulting firms, all with
qualified and experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to World Bank.
In addition to verifying the information submitted in the internal supervision and monitoring
reports of the LGU, the external monitoring agency will visit a sample of 20% of PAP
households in each subproject barangay prior to approval of civil works and/or other
occasions as deemed necessary by the PCO. The external monitor will:
a) Determine whether the procedures for PAPs participation, relocation and delivery of
compensation and other entitlements have been done in accordance with this
Resettlement Policy and the respective inventories and resettlement plans.
b) Assess if the Resettlement Policy's objective of restoration of living standards and
income levels of PAPs have been met.
c) Gather qualitative indications of the social and economic impact of subproject
implementation on the PAPs.
d) Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of the inventories and
resettlement plans, as the case may be, to achieve the principles and objectives of
this Resettlement Policy.
6.    COSTS AND BUDGET
Each inventory and resettlement plan will include detailed cost of relocation, compensation
and other entitlements, with breakdown by agricultural land, business land, houses, business
and other assets. The cost estimates will make adequate provision for contingencies.
Sources of funding for the various inventories and resettlement activities will be clearly
specified in the cost tables.



'HILIPPINES: DIVERSIFIED FARM INCOME AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
kTTACHMENT 1: FULL INVENTORY
4AME OF SUBPROJECT:                                                               Focus AREA: _
'ROVINCE:                                      MUNICIPALITY:                                    BARANGAY:
LAND TO
NAME OF  No. OF  TOTAL     BE    LOSS                                                                                            TEMPORARY
READOoPERISONOL S LANDHOLDING  CUSE  T             Loss OF ASSETS              Loss OF CROPS    LOSS OF OTHER    OTHER LOSSES      LOSSES
HEAD OF  IN  OF HHOLD IN  IN M' BY  OF                                                          AsSETS(SCFY
[SELDHHOLD    Ml      TYPE oF  TOTAL
USE________
FRUrr
NUMBER  SRCUE    STUUES    AREA oF  TREES  AD   OTE    WLS    TOSRSINC      BUNSSNOM
AND TYPE  STLCUF  TUTRSRESIDENTIAL  LOST  PAD    OTE    WILS   oBsRIENE       usEsNcm
OF LOST  PERMANENT  TEMPORARY  LAND LOST  TYPE  ARA(SPECIFY) NUMBER NuMBER (RENTED)  LosT  LosS
STRUCTURES                           AND) (a  (Ma)
NUMBER



PHILIPPINES: DIVIERSIFIED FARM INCOME AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ATTACHMENT 2: ENTITLENIENT AND COMPENSATION PACKAGE
PROVINCE:                                       MUNICIPALITY:                                   BARANGAY:
NA,ME oF                                                                                                               TOTAL
SURVJEY                                                                                                COMPENSATION FOR WELLS AND  T
No.     HEAD OF      COMPENSATION FOR LAND     COMPENSATION FOR STRUCTURES  COMPENSATION FOR CROPS            TOMBS           IPEN
HOUSEHOLD                                                                                                               PESO
QUANTITY  UNI     TITEEN    QuANTITy  UNIT                       UNIT  ENILMN       UNIY    UNIT
PRICE ENTITEMEN-          ENTILEMET QUANTITY  ENTTEETQANTITY             PRICE  ENTITLEMENT
SQ.  S   Q       INPESO     SQ.    PRICE    IN PESO    UNIT    PRICE   IN PESO    UNIT    IN     EN PESO
METERS    S.METERS                  IN PESO                    IN PESO
___________    ~M ETERS  _ _ _ _ _ __                                    _ __ _ _ _ _ __PESO
2



PHILIPPINES: DIV-ERSIFIED FARM INCOME AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ATTACHMENT 3: SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY OF THE PROJECT AREA AND THE PROPOSED RESETTLENIENTS SITE
PROVINCE:                                    MUNICIPALITY:                                BARANGAY:
SURVEY  ID No. OF       OCCUPATION                ESTIMATED
NO.    HD NO. OF     NAME OF HOUSEHOLD MEMBER   SEX    AGE     ETHNICITY    EDUCATION   AND SOURCES  EMPLOYMENT  TOTAL INCOME
._____________________________  ______  _______  _____________  OF  INCOM E       PER   YEAR
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ________  .______________ 



ATTACHMENT 4
Philippines: Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Full Resettlement Plan
Outline Example
1. Sub-project description (e.g., municipal road link, communal irrigation system,
water supply system, etc.)
2. Avoidance or minimization of displacement and other adverse social impacts
(steps taken to minimize land acquisition by modifying designs and other
approaches)
3. Amount of land acquisition and number of project affected people and vulnerable
groups
4. Full inventory (see form in Attachment 1)
5. Socio-economic survey (sample respondents) of the project area and the
proposed resettlements site (se form in Attachment 3)
6. Consultation and participation plan
7. Entitlement and compensation package (see form in Attachment 2)
8. Rehabilitation and income restoration measures
9. Institutional arrangements, required capacity and implementation skills
10. Implementation plan and schedule (e..g. what steps are taken to prepare for
resettlement and/or paying compensation; when it take place; how will it be
coordinated with civil works of sub-project, etc)
11. Training program (if appropriate, as part of rehabilitation measures for affected
people)
12. Monitoring (internal and external) and reporting (refer to guidelines in Land
Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework)
13. Grievance procedures specific to sub-project and location (see guidelines in Land
Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement Policy Framework)
14. Information dissemination plan and transparency measures
15. Budgeting and funding source



ATTACHMENT 5
Sample Check List for Land Acquisition for DFIMDP
ACTIVITY                                  RESPONSIBLE
Annual Planning by Province/Municipality for Infrastructure
1   Prepare list of proposed roads for rehabilitation                 Municipal Govt
2   Submit list to Municipal Multi-Sectoral Committee (MSC)           Municipal Govt
3   Prioritize proposed roads for sub-project                         Municipal Govt
4   Submit to.PPIU                                                    Municipal Govt
Inventory/Survey for Each Subproject with Land Acquisition
1   Give public notice of intention to acquire land, and grievance period  LGU
2   Send written notification to project affected people (PAPs)       LGU
3   Hold public meeting with Barangay Officials and PAPs.             LGU
4   Conduct on-site verification of assets to be acquired with each head of  Review Committee
household
5   Complete Inventory and Entitlement Forms of projected affected families  LGU
6   Consult with PAPs regarding compensation                          LGU
7   Sign Compensation Protocol by authorities and head of household   LGU
8  'Submit of Inventory & Entitlement Forms to DA                     LGU
9   Submit Inventory and Entitlement Forms to DA and World Bank for approval  Review Committee/
RFU
Under DFIMDP, submission of required documents will follow a two-step
process similar to and integrated with the procurement process (refer to'
Operation Manual);
Step I - Submit all completed inventories and entitlement forms as well as
documentation on consultation for No Objection#1
Step 2 - Submit all duly completed deeds of donation and proof of
satisfactory completion of resettlement - activities (signed Compensation
Protocol) for No Objection #2
10  Review and determine if full Resettlement Action Plan is needed (if impacts  Review Committee/
are significant where people are physically displaced and more than 10% of  RFU
their productive assets are lost, then a full RAP is required)
11  If full RAP not required, implement compensation activities       LGU
Full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
12  Undertake socio-economic survey and complete form                 LGU
13  Prepare full RAP (full RAP includes Inventory, Entitlement, Socio-Economic  LGU
Survey Relocation and Compensation Plans, Schedules and Budget)
14  Submit full RAP to RC                                             LGU
15  Submit full RAP and RC comments to DA and World Bank for review and  LGU
approval
16  Wait for No Objection from DA and WB for full RAP (same as Step 1 in #9  DA, World Bank
above)
17  Impiement full RAP after approval from DA and WB (same as Step 2 in-#9  LGU
above)
Award of Contract for Civil Works



The Bank will provide "no objection" to award of contract only after all
activities for land acquisition, compensation and resettlement have been
satisfactorily completed.
Monitoring
1  On-going Internal monitoring and reporting                       LGU
2   Hire Independent Monitoring Agency                              RFU
3   Start external monitoring                                       External Monitor
4   Submit external monitoring report to World Bank (annually)      RFU



