Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 20, 2004                             Report No.:AC577
A. Basic Project Data
A. . Project Statistics
Country: Philippines                          Project ID: P075184
Project: Philippines: Diversified Farm Income an  TTL: Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron
Total project cost (by component):
Appraisal Date: February 09, 2004             Loan/Credit amount($m):
IBRD: 60
Board Date: August 3, 2004
Other financing amounts by source:               ($m.)
Managing Unit: EASRD                          Sector: Agricultural marketing and trade
(70%);Sub-national government administration
(30%)
Lending Instruments: Sector Investment and
Maintenance Loan
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency recovery?  Yes?  [ ]     No?   [X ]
Environmental Category: B                     Safeguard Classification:
A.2. Project Objectives
The development objective for this project would be to improve the provision and access to market
development services and investments, with a view to increasing agricultural value added and rural
incomes. The project would help implement key institutional changes, and aim to improve the
performance of the Philippine Department of Agriculture in aspects related to (i) enhancing the quality of
market development services and efficient prioritization of market development investments; (ii)
strengthening of quality assurance systems for market development; (iii) development and dissemination
of market-linked technology; and (iv) enhancing budget resource allocation and planning.
The primary outcomes envisaged at the end of the project include: improved public sector (DA) delivery
of market development services and investments; more rational prioritization of budgetary resources, in
accordance with the DA's core functions, greater diversification of farm incomes; greater horizontal and
vertical market integration; improved domestic and export trade performance; higher profits and incomes
in farming; and private sector development. These, in turn, have long-termn impacts in stimulating
agricultural sector growth and sustaining poverty reduction efforts. Progress toward achieving these
project outcomes would be measured using the following indicators:
.   Better client satisfaction and appreciation of DA's delivery of market development services and
investments
*   Increase in percentage of budgetary resources allocated to DA's core functions in support of
market development services and investments, strengthening quality assurance systems, market-
linked technology development and dissemnination, and enhancing agricultural development
planning and resource allocation.
*   Increase in volume and value and better quality of agriculture and fisheries produce for domestic
consumption and export;
. Decrease in the number of export rejections at major destination ports;
. Increase in the number of private sector firms engaged in production, processing, marketing and
export of agricultural produce; and
. Increase in farm profitability and greater diversification in farm incomes.
The proposed project would assist the Government meet objectives related to economic growth and poverty
reduction by supporting key institutional changes in the DA and funding strategic investments to make the
agriculture sector more competitive and market-oriented. It would also be consistent with the
Government's policy to modemize the sector to enable it to meet the challenges of globalization and trade
liberalization. Broad-based rural development is a core element of the Bank's assistance to the
Philippines. In the 2003-2005 CAS period, the Bank aims to sharpen its non-lending and lending support



to address the declining competitiveness of Philippine agriculture which must be reversed, if agricultural
growth, on-and off farm employment creation and rural poverty reduction are to be achieved. In particular,
long overdue policy and institutional adjustments are needed to stimulate private sector investment in
agriculture. Hence, through this project, the Bank will pursue its relevant CAS objectives on rural
development, stimulating growth and competitiveness, poverty reduction, private sector development and
fostering greater diversification and market orientation in agriculture.
A.3. Project Description
In selecting and defining the project components, it was recognized that critical gaps in DA functions
and approach had to be addressed if it were to be transformed from a production-oriented institution to a
more market- and service-oriented institution. Equally important, this would need to be supported by
direct investments in enhancing infrastructure investments to improve physical market integration.
Accordingly, five components were selected, which reflected key gaps in market and information
services, decentralized investment support, quality assurance services, technology development and
dissemination, and planning and budgeting.
1. Support for Market Development Services (US $ 16.516 Million)
A key outcome envisaged under the project would be an effective market development service in the DA
which would provide up-to-date market information and advisory services to producers and the private
sector. The project would provide specific budgetary support to strengthen the core functions and
capacity of the Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service (AMAS) to enable it to more effectively
provide marketing assistance to producers and traders, collaborate in market promotion and trade fairs
with the private sector and undertake analysis of emerging markets. The project will also address current
weaknesses in information and data analysis and delivery (such as poor coordination and lack of clear
understanding of responsibilities and functions of the various agencies involved). In addition, support
will also be given to fund core functions of the DA's Bureau of Agricultural Statistics (BAS),
Information Technology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries (ITCAF), National Agriculture and
Fisheries Council (NAFC), the Agriculture and Fisheries Information Service (AFIS), and the
Agriculture Training Institute (ATI), in developing their institutional capacities and integrating the
outputs of these various agencies in a coordinated manner into the development and operationalization of
an Agriculture and Fisheries Market Information System (AFMIS). The objectives of the AFMIS will be
to provide comprehensive, timely and accurate information to growers, traders, processors and exporters
on prices, volumes traded in major markets, product standards, regulatory policies and procedures. It
would be a web-based system implemented initially in nine provinces of the four (4) Focus Areas to be
supported under the project.
2. Market Development Investments (US $ 38.714 Million)
In addition to strengthened market services, strengthened horizontal and vertical market linkages through
investments in market infrastructure and market-related technical assistance to producer groups would be
also be a key output of the project. Infrastructure for post-harvest and agro-processing facilities are
currently lacking and act as impediments to producers to diversify and to the private sector to invest in
processing and value-adding enterprises. Investment funding will be provided within the framework of
(local government) devolution and agricultural sector objectives for fostering greater public-private
sector partnership. To enhance impact, the project will initially fund investments in four (focus) areas
with recognized potential for market development in tradable commodities. These include Region 10
(Bukidnon for corn, vegetables horticulture and livestock); Region 7 (Cebu and Negros Oriental for
fruits and mariculture); Region 6 (Iloilo and Panay Island for aquaculture) and Cordillera Administrative
Region (CAR for vegetables and fruits). The investments will be designed to ensure the rationalization of
DA's resources and prioritization of investment proposals in line with the overall national thrust for
agricultural competitiveness, and complementary to priorities of local government units (LGUs) and
private sector initiatives in the focus areas. Local investments would be prioritized in accordance with
an agreed selection and eligibility criteria outlined in an operations manual prepared under the project
and to be implemented under streamlined administrative procedures, giving greater responsibility and
decision-making at the local level. National government policies on cost sharing guidelines with LGUs
and the private sector would be followed.
3. Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development (US$17.52 Million)
The public sector framework and provision of regulatory services is riddled with inconsistencies and



constraints which have to be addressed if the public sector is to effectively facilitate both domestic and
foreign trade. The key component outcome envisaged under the project would be a strengthened,
technically more competent and better coordinated regulatory service in the DA, providing a streamnlined
and transparent service to consumers and exporters. The project would provide budget support to
strengthen the core functions of DA agencies involved in regulatory services under the coordinating
umbrella of the Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries Products Standards (BAFPS), which is mandated
under the AFMA legislation to fulfill this function, but does not have the requisite staff nor facilities, at
present. Budget support would also be provided to the core functions of other key regulatory agencies
including the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI), the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR)
and the Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority (FPA) in order to streamline and make transparent its existing
systems and procedures for regulations and quality assurance.
4. Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination (US $ 8.564 Million)
Research and technology development and dissemination will continue to play an important role in
modernizing the agriculture sector. Historically, public expenditure has focused almost entirely on
support to producing food grains, with little provided for market-driven research in commodities and
processes with recognized market potential. These include aspects such as development of improved
planting material, animal breeding for better quality produce, more efficient input use, post- harvest
handling, packaging, processing and transport. Accordingly, the project will provide funding for
modifying and strengthening implementation of the DA's competitive research grants scheme for
strategic, demand-driven agricultural research priorities, with increased priority given for how the
proposed research and technology would relate to meeting market objectives. Competitive research
grants would be open for both public and private sector proponents and would be allocated based on a set
of criteria with a strong market development orientation. The project would also support a major shift in
the role of the DA's Agriculture Training Institute (ATI), by phasing out its role in being a provider of
training, while strengthening its role in strategic planning, coordination and funding of training and
information dissemnination, in line with the goals of AFMA. The nature of training to be provided would
build on the experience of the FAO-assisted technical assistance project in one of the Focus Areas
(Region 10), which has shown the benefits from training sessions that bring producers and buyers in
direct contact with each other to both clarify market needs and facilitate forward contracts. Training
would also focus on improving the proper use of chemicals and their disposal, to help mitigate the
pesticide residue issues that continue to be pervasive in Philippine agricultural products.
5. Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning (US $ 3.5 Million)
Modemizing agriculture and enhancing its competitiveness will require a major shift in the DA's current
process of planning and budgeting, which, historically, has been based on a commodity orientation.
Under this component, the project would strengthen both the planning and budgeting functions of the
DA through improvements in the DA system for planning and budgetary resource allocation, based on
functional priorities rather than commodity programs. Support will be provided to the DA in order to
align its plans and budgets along functional major final outputs (MFOs) which is currently the thrust of
the DBM in rationalizing its budgetary allocations to line agencies such as the DA. Support will be
provided for (a) streamlining and improving DA's medium-term and annual planning and budget system;
(b) capacity building and training to orient staff to the new MFO-based budget and planning systems and
procedures, (c) strengthening policy and advocacy for agricultural trade-related issues; and (c)
strengthening monitoring and evaluation in line with MFOs.
A.4. Project Location and salient physical charactefistics relevant to the safeguard analysis:
The institutional and policy aspects of the project would be national in scope and impact, however support
for increasing farm diversification and productivity and market linkages would be directed to four focus
areas where opportunities exist for building on diversification activities are already underway. The four
focus areas are: (1) Region 10: Bukidnon and Central Highlands of Mindanao (coin, vegetables,
horticulture, livestock); (2) Region 7: Cebu and Negros Oriental provinces (fruits, mariculture); (3) Region
6: Panay Island (aquaculture); and (4) Cordillera Administrative Region (vegetables, fruits, horticulture)
(CAR): La Trinidad Valley, Benguet. IP commnunities are known to exist in the proposed focus areas.
Higaonons, Banwaons, Matigsalogs, Talaandigs, Umayamnons, Manobos, and Subanons live in Bukidnon
and Central Mindanao. The hinterlands of Negros Oriental is inhabited by the Bukidnons, Magahats,
Carol-anon, Atis and Agtas (Region 7). while Atis, Sulod, Badjao, Manobos/Ata-Manobos inhabit parts of



the Panay Island (Region 6). La Trinidad and other adjacent localities in Benguet (Cordillera Autonomous
Region) are basically IP (Igorot) communities. Two of the focus areas are located close to protected areas
in the country. These are Mt. Kitanglad Natural Park (Region 10) and Mt. Pulag National Park and Mt.
Data National Park (CAR), respectively. The focus area in Region 10 is outside of the park's strict
protection zone but a small portion is within the buffer zone, where agricultural activities are allowed
according to the Management Plan of the park. The project sites in CAR, on one hand, are all located
outside of the protected areas. Each park is managed by a multi-sectoral body, the Protected Area
Management Board (PAMB), which has been established pursuant to the National Integrated Protected
Areas System (NIPAS) Law.
B. Check Environmental Category A [lB [XI, c   Fr 1  FIr
Comments: The project is classified as Category B because it is not expected to have adverse and
unprecedented environmental impacts. Other than the market infrastructure component, which will support
mostly rehabilitation works of existing rural infrastructure, the project will not finance huge civil works
activities and subprojects that will adversely affect the environment. Environmental soundness is one of the
criteria adopted by the project in screening and approving subprojects.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  Y es  N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BJP/GP 4.01)               [x]                 I I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                           [xI                 I I
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                               [xr
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03-)           []
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                   [xI                  I I
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                            [x]                  I I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                     r1                 [X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                              [ f                [x]
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)               [I                 [xI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50) [r                      [x]
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
claims on the disputed areas



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
D. 1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are five safeguard issues related to the project and these would receive special attention: i) the need
for reduction and safer use of chemical pesticides in crop production and post harvest handling; ii) the need
for special attention to be given to indigenous groups living in the project area; iii) the protection of natural
habitats in the Coastal Zone areas where the sustainability and improved competitiveness of sustainable
fishery development would be encouraged and supported; iv) overall environmental assessment needs; and
v) involuntary resettlement, which may be triggered if there may be a need for minor land acquisition
during rehabilitation and/or construction of smallholder market facilities.
In regard to chemical pesticide use, a central goal of the project would be to reduce the use of chemical
pesticides and to improve their safe packaging, handling, application and disposal of used containers. The
project would therefore address the issue from both the input (supply) and output (demand) side. On the
input side, the Philippines already has active IPM programs in the proposed project areas. These would be
reinforced under the project along with associated training of farmers in regard to issues of food safety and
chemical use. On the demand side, an important criteria for the Philippines to strengthen its competitive
market position will be for it to significantly lower the levels of pesticide residues on products it exports.
Considerable product rejections currently occur upon arrival of Philippine products on foreign markets,
because of unacceptable levels of pesticide residues. This despite the fact that the Philippines has much of
the facilities and capacity needed for pesticide monitoring and enforcement, but implementation has been
poor.
Impact on Indigenous Groups: . While the overall development goal of the project is to raise farmer
incomes and create opportunities for the development of on- and off-farmjob opportunities in rural areas,
care will be needed to ensure that indigenous people in the project areas along with other vulnerable groups
are not disadvantaged, and to the extent possible are benefited by the development expected to take place
through improved productivity, market linkages and agri-business development. Negative effects of
project interventions on indigenous communities in the four focus areas, to the extent they may occur, are
not expected to be large. On the other hand, the participatory planning approaches being integrated into the
project design provide opportunities for the inclusion of IPs and IP concerns in subproject interventions,
market information and networking and capacity building of farmers/growers associations. The social
assessment conducted in the four focus areas included a scanning of the various IP groups in the areas and
consultation with IP groups (many of whom are also engaged in agriculture as in the case of CAR and
Bukidnon). Consultation with the provincial and regional offices of the National Commission on
Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) has been made by the DA preparation team to ensure that the IP concerns are
well considered in the project design and activities.
Coastal Zone Management and Natural Habitat Protection: The project seeks to improve the
productivity and sustainability of capture fishery development in the Philippines, and to improve the
marketability and competitiveness of fish products. Clearly, a key feature of such development must be the
protection of the quality of water, mnangrove and foreshore areas if such development is to be sustainable
and if the devastating effects of disease outbreak in intensive culture areas are to be avoided.
Other Environmental Issues: The rehabilitation and/or construction of market infrastructure support,
given their small size, will only have localized and short-term impacts, which will be limited to the
construction stage. Waste from local wholesale markets and collection points would be virtually all bio-
degradable and its handling and disposal would be an integral part of the management plans to be
established with local government authorities for each facility, before construction.
On Involuntary Resettlement: The project will entail mostly rehabilitation, and to a limited extent,



construction of local smallholder market facilities/infrastructure. It is expected that land which will be
used for these purposes are generally lands provided by the national government, LGUs, or members
of the producer/growers groups who essentially requested for these infrastructure investments. As
such, very minimal involuntary land taking is expected. In some cases, land acquisition would
essentially involve minor expansion (1 to 2 meters) of certain road sections that would affect some
privately owned lots. However, for the Year I subprojects, no land acquisition is anticipated since
these involve the rehabilitation of existing farm-to-market roads and limited to the existing road-width
or right-of-way of the said roads.
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the
project area.
The project is part of a larger and longer term program of government to reverse the declining
competitiveness of its agricultural, fishery and livestock products, and to build a sustainable, and dynamic
base for rural job creation and poverty reduction. Such development will result in changes in the types of
crops cultivated, and in the level of management that goes in to the production of a better quality
agricultural and fishery products. The focus of the project on the market; i.e., consumer demand, is
expected to lead over time to a much better quality of product in terms of appearance and food safety, along
with greater consumer awareness. This will go a long way to address the negative environmental impact of
current agricultural and intensive fishery practices in the Philippines. Clearly the technological,
management and attitudinal changes that will be needed to achieve this shift should not be understated, nor
should the time frame be underestimated. The project would however, be the first phase in reorienting
public sector thinking and support away from the supply/production focus of the past, to a more demand
based system commensurate with increasing consumer awareness and sensitivity to environmental
consequences and food safety issues.
Overall, the long-term impacts of the project are envisioned to be positive. These would include, among
others, increased farm incomes for both medium-scale and small farmers as a result of more
organized/synchronized and inclusive commercial agricultural production and marketing, reduction of
poverty incidence in rural areas, improved and more strategic support infrastructure, increase in value of
agricultural exports and increased competitiveness for Philippine agricultural and fishery products.
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
a) Re. Pest Management (OP/BP 4.01 and OP 4.09). In seeking to improve the competitiveness of
Philippine agriculture through improvements in productivity, quality and post-harvest handling of
agricultural products, use of chemical pesticides may increase in absolute terms because of productivity
increases. That said, the project would be pro-active in pursuing ways to reduce chemical use per unit area
of crop, and to improve the safe application and handling of agricultural chemicals; these being necessary
conditions for improving the overall marketability and competitiveness of Philippine agricultural produce.
Under the project, grades and standards would be enhanced, regulations regarding pesticide product
packaging, and marketing enforced, and pesticide residue monitoring capacity enhanced and more strictly
enforced. Additionally, by ensuring routine and public reporting of pesticide residue levels, the project can
be expected to have a significant impact on production for domestic markets, both through the enforcement
of regulations and by raising consumer awareness of the health issues at stake. The project would also aim
to minimize and delineate among various govemment agencies, the overlapping roles and responsibilities
of agencies involved in the formulation and enforcements of grades and standards. In the focus areas,
support would be provided for the expansion of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) programs already under
implementation. There would be no use of project funds for the procurement of pesticides under the
project, nor is there any subsidy in the Philippines for chemical pesticides. All of these will be considered



in the formulation of a pest management plan as part of the environmental assessment.
b) Re Indigenous People (OD 4.20). The project will be implemented in four focus areas of the Philippines
wherein indigenous people are located and involved in agriculture production in various ways. The project
will seek to raise the incomes of all farmers within these project areas, and to increase on and off-farm
employment opportunities through improved market linkages, better quality production and post-harvest
handling, and through development of agro-processing. In this process, care will be needed that some
indigenous and other vulnerable groups are not disadvantaged by the development. No adverse impact on
IPs is anticipated, and indeed, IPs would be among the potential beneficiaries of subprojects. However, in
keeping with Bank policy, detailed consultations were held with the indigenous groups during project
preparation and measures were included in the project design to ensure that they do in fact benefit from the
proposed development interventions. This is also in keeping with national legislation concerning IPs (RA
8371 or IPRA) which requires that in cases where a development project is situated within an ancestral
domain, free and prior informed consent should be secured from the IP community before the project can
be implemented. As part of the preparatory activities, the social assessment conducted in each of the four
focus areas, included consultations with IP groups and NCIP provincial offices to determiine the potential
degree and scale of impact of proposed interventions on IPs and vulnerable groups and gauge how they can
be benefited by the proposed interventions in the focus areas. Social benchmarks and indicators have been
developed to monitor the impact of the project on the welfare of households in the focus areas, as a means
to refine policies and actions as the project proceeds. The social assessment covered the issue of
indigenous people and the identification of special measures to ensure their informed participation and that
they have equal access to project benefits. DA prepared a draft IP Policy Framework (Guidelines for
Indigenous Peoples Development) to serve as guide for LGUs and the RFUs in ensuring that the provisions
of IPRA are observed and that opportunities for IP participation. This was submitted to the Bank for
review. Disclosure of this draft policy and discussion with IPs, the LGUs and the RFUs is ongoing.
The task team and the GOP preparation team would endeavor to apply for a JSDF grant which would help
facilitate the preparation and implementation of a strategic intervention/assistance for IPs, in conjunction
with the implementation of the project.
c)      Re. Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04). One of the focus areas to be supported under
the project would address fisheries development and improved marketability and competitiveness of fish
products. To the extent this development should lead over time to enhanced productivity, issues of coastal
zone management and natural habitat protection will need to be addressed. The specifics of what the
project would support in regard to fisheries have yet to be determined. To this end, the environmental
screening for subproject eligibility will look into the impacts on critical natural habitats such as mangrove
areas, coral reefs, etc. Subprojects that will adversely impact on these habitats will be ineligible for
financing.
d) Re. Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01). Environmental concerns associated with
the project would be in the rehabilitation and/or construction of small-holder market infrastructure, e.g.,
farm-to-market roads, small scale irrigation, local wholesale market collection points, etc. Management of
waste (primarily bio-degradable) from such local market facilities would also need to be addressed. The
environmental impacts of the year I subprojects have been assessed in the EA report, which has been
prepared as part of the preparation works for the project, and the corresponding measures have been
proposed as part of the EMP. The impacts of year 2 and subprojects that will be identified during project
implementation will be addressed following the environmental guidelines in the Operations Manual. For
rehabilitation works, which are mostly not covered under the Philippine EIA Law, impacts will be
identified during subproject screening and addressed in the EMP, which will be required from each
subproject. For new construction, which will most likely be covered under the Philippine EIA Law, the
DENR review and clearance procedures will be followed. This will mean that each subproject proponent
will be required to secure an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) from the DENR as part of the
subproject approval process.
e) Re Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project will entail mostly rehabilitation, and to a limited



extent, construction of local smallholder market facilities/infrastructure. It is expected that land which will
be used for these purposes are lands provided by the national government, LGUs,or the producer groups.
As such, no involuntary land taking is expected. For the Year I subprojects, no land acquisition is
anticipated since these involve the rehabilitation of existing farm-to-market roads and limited to the
existing road-width or right-of-way of the said roads. To the extent there is any change in this during the
rest of the implementation of the project, a strategy for the informed participation and consultation
consistent with OP/BP 4.12 has been developed. DA has prepared a draft Policy Framework for Land
Acquisition, Involuntary Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons to guide project
implementation. This framework has been submitted to the Bank for review. Disclosure and discussion of
this framework with the LGUs, and the RFUs is currently being made. In addition, a screening mechanism
which would clearly spell out a negative list of subprojects (such as those which would entail involuntary
resettlement) is incorporated in the project's operations manual.
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the Department of Agriculture, Local Government Units, men and women
farmers and their associations, indigenous peoples and other beneficiaries in the four Focus areas, along
with private sector traders, and agri-business. Consultations (through workshops, and focused-group
discussions) were conducted as part of the social assessment process. Feedback and validation sessions
with various stakeholders were held to inform all key groups of the outcomes of the social assessment and
present the issues and safeguard measures to be introduced under the project. These sessions are likewise
being utilized to disclose and obtain feedback on the project's operations manual, environmental
assessment framework, resettlement policy framework and indigenous peoples development framework.
The draft frameworks have been posted at the LGUs and DA-Regional Field Offices in the 4 focus areas,
the DA Central Office, the Bank's Knowledge for Development Centers (KDCs) and Infoshop for
disclosure to the general public. For Year 1 subprojects, the project included the conduct of special
consultation meetings by concerned barangay councils with adjacent landowners to discuss the provisions
in the resettlement policy framework, surface possible concerns and issues and gauge the social
acceptability of the proposed interventions. Agreements reached between the participating LGUs and the
various key stakeholders shall be documented and subrmitted to the Department of Agriculture as
attachments to specific proposals. In areas with indigenous people, consultation has been done by the DA-
RFU in partnership with the Provincial Offices of the National Commission on Indigenous People (NCIP)
to ensure that the planning and implementation processes of subprojects and other interventions comply
with the Indigenous Peoples Rights Act (IPRA) and the project's IP Development Framework. These same
processes shall be observed for subprojects to be identified in the subsequent years.



F. Disclosure Requirements    Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Ianagement Plan/Other:
Date of receipt by the Bank                  01/30/2004 or Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              01/05/2004 or Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               02/13/2004 or Not Applicable
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
.../... /...  or Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
Date of receipt by the Bank                  01/22/2004  or Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              01/05/2004 or Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               02/13/2004 or Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                  01/30/2004  or Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              01/05/2004 orNot Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               02/13/2004 or Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                  . . ./.. .1..  or Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              . . ./ ...  or Not Applicable
Date of submnission to InfoShop                 /...   or Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                     /...   or Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              ...1 L.   or Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               ... /...  or Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Section III - Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
(To be filled in when the ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment:                                       Yes      No
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                    X
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats:                                             Yes      No
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical    X
natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-
critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures acceptable to
the Bank?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management:                                                 Yes      No
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                  X
Is a separate PMP required?                                                          X
If yes, are PMP requirements included in project design?
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property:                             Yes      No
Does the EA include adequate measures?
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse
impacts on physical cultural resources?
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples:                                              Yes      No
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation  X
with the Indigenous People?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and
approved by the Regional Social Development Unit?



OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:                                     Yes       No
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been prepared?  X
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan /
policy framework / policy process?
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests:                                                      Yes       No
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been
carried out?
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these constraints?
Does the project finance cornmercial harvesting, and if so, does it include provisions
for certification system?
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety ofDams:                                                Yes       No
Have dam safety plans been prepared?
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE)
been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been
made for public awareness and training?
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways:                             Yes       No
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then
has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared
and sent?
What are the reasons for the exception?
Please explain:
Has the RVP approved such an exception?
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas:                                      Yes       No
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the intemational aspects of the
project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for
dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to
the RVP?
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP?
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure:                                              Yes       No
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop?  X
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local  X
NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies:                                                     Yes      No
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been  X
prepared for the implementation of the safeguard measures?
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost?                X
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation?  X
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of  x
safeguard impacts and measures?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and  X
the same been adequately reflected in the project legal documents?
Signed and submitted by:        ,   4            Name                           Date
Task Team Leader:              tarolina V. F§u4yaJ- eron                  February 18, 2004
Project Safeguards Specialist 1:  Josefo Tuyor                            February 18, 2004
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:  Jose Tiburcio Nicolas                   February 18, 2004
Project Safeguards Specialist 3:
Approved by.                                A     Name                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:           ;4I,I I1 3II
Comments:                                             l
Sector Manager:                        Mark D. Wilsin                        3/2/2004
Comments:                           \     3& ,N\C) 



