D F I M D P
Januory 19, 2003                      Environmental Assessment Final Report
E901
Volume 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .....................                      .1
2 THE PROJECT.2
2.1   PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................................2
2.2   PROJECT COMPONENTS .................................................................2
3 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS                             .3
3.1   LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF THE PHILIPPINE GOVERNMENT ...................... .......................3
3.2   GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ..........................................................3
3.3   INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT ................................................................. 5
3.4   ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARD POLICIES OF THE WORLD BANK ............... ..................5
4   YEAR 1 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUB-PROJECTS COMPRISING THE
INVESTMENT SUPPORT FOR LOCAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT                                   .6
5   BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERIZATION/PROFILING OF
THE SUB-PROJECT SITES                             .7
5.1   BENGUET PROVINCE .................................................................7
5.2   BUKIDNON ................................................................  12
5.3   CEBU ................................................................  16
6 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT .19
6.1   "WITHOUT PROJECT" SCENARIO .................................... ............................ 19
6.2   "WITH PROJECT" SCENARIO ................................................................  21
7 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN .22
7.1   PRE-IMPLEMENTATION ................................................  22
7.2   CONSTRUCTION PHASE ................................................  22
7.3   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ................................................  22
7.4   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR YEAR-1 SUBPROJECTS ......................... 22
7.5   ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES FOR DFIMDP SUBPROJECTS FOR YEAR 2 ONWARDS
22
8 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT ................................................................. 22
8.1   CAPACITY BUILDING AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENTS ................................................................. 23
8.2   PROPOSED STAFFING ARRANGEMENTS ................................................................. 26
FILE COPY



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1. National Laws, Rules and Administrative Issuances Pertaining to
Environmental Assessments ...............................................................4
Table 2. Brief Descriptions of Sub-Projects for Year 1 Implementation .........................6
Table 3. Land Area of Benguet/CAR Focus Area (hectares) ..........................................8
Table 4. Landuse Pattern in Buguias and Atok Municipalities in Benguet Province... 9
Table 5 Pest Profile in High Value Commercial Crops (HVCC) in Benguet ................ 10
Table 6 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Benguet .............. 10
Table 7 Land Area of Northern Mindanao Focus Area and Bukidnon (hectares) ..... 13
Table 8 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Lantapan,
Bukidnon ..............................................................     14
Table 9 Land Area of Central Visayas Focus Area and Cebu (hectares) ................... 16
Table 10 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Lantapan,
Bukidnon .............................................................. 18
Table 11 Environmental Management Plan for all Year-1 Subprojects ......................... 24
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1. Location Map for the DFIMDP Focus Areas .....................................................7
Figure 2. Location Map of Benguet Province .............................................................8
Figure 3 Location Map of DFIMDP Areas in Bukidnon .................................................. 12
Figure 4 Location Map of Central Visayas Focus Area and Cebu Province ............... 17



D F I M D P
January 19, 2003                     Environmental Assessment Final Report
1 Executive Summary
The Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project (DFIMDP) of the Department
of Agriculture (DA) proposes to make the needed investments in facilities, human resources,
information systems, equipment, organizational systems and research grants to raise the
agency's capacity to provide essential public services for competitiveness enhancing support
for the private sector-namely, regulatory services, market linkages, technology
development and dissemination, and planning, policy and budgeting systems. It will also
undertake market-related rural infrastructure and capacity building projects of local
governments (LGUs) and grower associations at the village level.
Under its rural infrastructure component, the DFIMDP proposes to undertake six road
rehabilitation subprojects for the first year of implementation. These are existing farm-to-
market roads that can improve strategic connections of production areas with market outlets
and trading centers. They are located in the provinces of Benguet, Bukidnon and Cebu, with
proponents being the municipal governments in collaboration with the barangays (village).
The subprojects all involve gravelling and drainage canal improvements with concreting
work, if any, being limited to narrow tire paths along the middle of the road. No land
acquisition is going to be necessary as all the sites are currently used exclusively as a public
road.
Environmental impacts of the six initial subprojects are likely to occur during and after
construction work-namely soil erosion, dust, traffic flow disruption and air pollution from
generated traffic. These are going to be minimal, temporary and reversible with simple
mitigation measures such as provision of slope protection, sprinkling of water over the work
area, and management of truck schedules by the contractor of the subproject. After
completion of the project, the LGUs will ensure that trucks and other vehicles are regulated
to minimize pollution from emissions and overloading. The DA regional field units will
monitor compliance with agreed mitigation measures.
Other related environmental impacts may arise from pre-existing risks associated with
farming in slopes and areas near or within watersheds.  The influence area of the
subprojects are hilly and upland barangays occupied mostly by migrant-farmers who have
settled there over the last 20 to 30 years using a mixture of farming practices that include
shifting cultivation and planting techniques that are inappropriate for sloping areas. Some
good practices are also observed in the areas, such as terracing of slopes to control soil
erosion and the use of integrated pest management to reduce consumption of hazardous
chemicals. In two of the subprojects (Lantapan, Bukidnon and Atok, Benguet) economic
activities are governed by existing protected area management plans, hence minimizing
risks of encroachment and damage to protected zones. To reinforce these measures, it is
recommended that the DA regional field units renew partnerships with the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the LGUs and formulate local strategies to
promote sustainable farming practices for upland areas and expand the areas under
integrated pest management. At the national level, the DFIMDP component for regulatory
services will also support environmental protection measures against hazardous chemicals
by closely monitoring toxic residue levels on agricultural commodities.
Succeeding subprojects for the DFIMDP have yet to be firmed up and evaluated in the
course of future implementation work. A set of environmental guidelines, incorporating
relevant policies of government and the WB, will ensure that they undergo the same process
of environmental impact analysis and assessment.



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
2 The Project
The Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project is a proposed activity of the
Department of Agriculture (DA). The Project seeks the assistance of the World Bank for a
Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan to put in place necessary investment in essential
services that are in accordance with the envisioned public sector role under the Agriculture
and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA).  The goal of the Project is to stimulate rural
growth and farmer incomes by enhancing competitiveness of Philippine agriculture and
fisheries commodities and market-oriented private sector-led investments.
2.1 Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project are as follows:
a) Arrest and reverse the declining competitiveness of Philippine commodities in domestic
and foreign markets
b) Greater diversification and profitability of farm enterprises
c) Increased flow of private investments into market-oriented enterprises.
Under agricultural promotion policies before the enactment of the AFMA, the role of the
government was to push production targets to achieve such development objectives.
Current policies, as spelled out by the AFMA, seek to delimit such intervention by
government so that the private sector can play out its more important role in business
development and financing.  Hence, the DFIMDP will concentrate on the institutional
development efforts of DA towards a more focused and strategic role rather than an
expanded and untargeted role in the achievement of the afore-cited objectives. With financial
and technical support from the World Bank, the basic strategy for achieving the above
objectives is the effective provision of public services along a few of the most critical
functions that are mandated by the AFMA.
2.2 Project Components
a) Component 1: Support for Market Development Services
Clients of the DA will have regular access to quality, timely and relevant information for
critical business decisions through the establishment of the Agriculture and Fisheries
Market Information System (AFMIS). Essential service function of providing assistance
in building market linkages between growers, traders, processors and exporters will also
be enhanced.
b) Component 2: Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development
Facilities, equipment, technical assistance, training activities, and information system will
be provided to improve the quality and efficiency of regulatory services. Export and
import clearances and related measures to develop and enforce appropriate product
standards will help to improve product quality, reduce transactions costs and minimize
product rejections due to contaminants that undermine export potential.
c) Component 3: Market-Linked Technology Development and Dissemination
The focus will be to support private sector demands for appropriate technology leading to
better quality agriculture and fisheries products in accordance with current trends in
2



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Finol Report
consumer habits and preferences. Through the use of competitive research grants, IT-
based data management systems and inter-active learning systems, funding of R&D
activities will give priority to genetic material improvement, post-harvest processing,
packaging and transport, and pest management methods to minimize the use of
chemical inputs.
d) Component 4: Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning Systems
Support in the form of technical and policy advisory services, policy studies, HRD
programs, and information systems will be extended by the Project to achieve the
desired reorientation and strengthening of the management services functions in support
of a more focused and strategic role of DA in line with the core functions suggested by
AFMA.
e) Component 5: Investment Support for Local Market Development Subprojects
Financial and technical assistance will be extended by the DA to its local partners in the
context of market development strategies of local industries and LGUs in four focus
areas: Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR), Western Visayas (Region 6), Central
Visayas (Region 7) and Northern Mindanao (Region 10). To complement LGU
investment plans and support private sector marketing needs, the Project will support the
construction and/or rehabilitation of subprojects will be comprised mostly of rural
infrastructure such as farm-to-market roads, trading posts, small-scale irrigation, and
capacity enhancement of grower/industry trade associations.
3 Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework for Environmental
Assessments
3.1 Legal Framework of the Philippine Government
The Philippines has a well-developed legal and administrative system for environmental
protection. The country's overall environment policy, as embodied in the 1987 Constitution,
states the right of communities to a healthful and balanced ecology.
Presidential Decree 1586 otherwise known as the Philippine Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) Law, requires proponents of development projects to ensure that their
activities do not have adverse impact on the environment and the people. A number of
implementing rules and regulations govern the conduct of mandatory environmental
assessments to give adequate prediction of possible environmental consequences. The EIA
is a useful planning tool to ensure that environmental considerations lead to the right
decisions in the selection of sites, technical options, implementation plan and operation and
maintenance arrangements.
Table 1 below presents the relevant laws and rules governing environmental assessments
in the Philippines.
3.2 Government Administrative Framework
The burden of compliance with the government's environmental laws falls mainly on
proponents and implementing agencies of development projects. However, the effective
enforcement of these rules is a major responsibility of the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR) which regulates and monitors activities with environmental
3



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
impacts through its power to issue environmental clearance before any project can obtain
funding and start implementation.
Table 1. National Laws, Rules and Administrative Issuances Pertaining
to Environmental Assessments
Title                    Highlights
1987 Constitution:      States the right of Filipino people to a balanced and healthful ecology.
Article II, Sections
15 and 16
Presidential Decree 1151  Requires any proposed development project or action to have
(1978)                   environmental impact assessments, with corresponding control
measures for adverse environmental impacts.
Presidential Decree 1586  Established the Environmental Impact Statement System based on
(1979)                   EIA requirements under P.D. No. 1511, requiring proponents of
development projects to formulate a program of environmental
enhancement, protective or mitigation measures. (1979)
Department           Serves as the implementing rules and regulations of PD 1586.
Administrative Order
(DAO) 21-1991
* Department
Administrative Order  Supersedes DAO 21
(DAO) 37-1996
*Department            Supersedes DAO 37-1996 and rationalizes and streamlines the EIS
Administrative Order  system  by clarifying the coverage of the system, standardizing
(DAO) 30-2003         requirements, simplifying procedures for processing ECC applications
(2003)
* Indigenous Peoples   Recognizes and respects the rights of indigenous cultural communities
Rights Act (IPRA)     over their ancestral domains and provides them with the responsibility
(1997)                of maintaining ecological balance and restoring damaged areas within
ancestral lands.
Proclamation No. 2146    Proclaims certain areas and types of projects as environmentally
(1981)                   critical that are within the scope of the EIS system under Presidential
Decree No. 1586.
National Integrated     Classifiies and administers all designated protected areas to maintain
Protected Areas System  essential ecological processes and life support systems, to preserve
(NIPAS) Law             genetic diversity, to ensure sustainable use of resources found therein
Republic Act 7586 (1992)  and to maintain their natural conditions to the greatest extent possible.
Promoting ecological balance is as much a task of local government units (LGUs) as it is of
the national government. Under the Local Government Code of 1991, provincial, municipal
and barangays are responsible for the sustainable development of areas within their political
jurisdictions, through local development planning, enactment of relevant ordinances and
regulatory power over building and business permits. Working alongside the DENR's
network of field offices that goes down to the level of municipalities, the existing
4



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
administrative system for environmental protection is very comprehensive and operates
intensively throughout the country.
3.3 Integrated Pest Management
The government has been aggressively promoting the use of integrated pest management
(IPM) in its sustainable agricultural and rural development programs throughout the country.
IPM has been adopted since about 10 years ago with the issuance of Presidential
Memorandum Order 126 of 1993 launching the "KASALIKASAN"-the National Integrated
Pest Management Program for promoting and enhancing sustainable agricultural and rural
development.  This is the country's standard approach to crop husbandry and pest
management in rice, corn and vegetable production. It enjoys wide acceptance as an
alternative to synthetic chemical pesticides among growers resulting from extensive
government-sponsored programs of training and research activities to strengthen the
capability of local government units, non-government organizations and farmer cooperatives
to carry out effective local IPM programs. So far, the levels of pesticide residue in fresh
fruits and vegetables have stayed below the maximum residue limit set by the Codex
Alimentarius Commission.' The lead agency for the promotion of IPM at the national level is
the Department of Agriculture which disseminates information on IPM through its farmer
training and extension programs.
3.4 Environmental Safeguard Policies of the World Bank
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP/BP 4.01) outlines the procedures for the
environmental assessment of bank lending operations. Environment consequences should
be recognized early in the project cycle and taken into account in project selection, siting,
planning, and design by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts.
Natural Habitats Policy (OP/BP 4.04) states that the Bank does not support projects
involving the significant conversion of natural habitats, unless there are no other feasible
alternatives for the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that
overall benefits from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the EA
indicates that a project significantly converts or degrades natural habitats, the project must
include mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank.
Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09) supports safe, effective and environmentally sound
pest management. It promotes the use of biological and environmental control methods. An
assessment is made of the capacity of the country's regulatory framework and institutions to
promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management.
' Data was cited in Global Competitiveness Strategies for Philippine Agribusiness-Product Quality System, a
report prepared for the DA by the Foundation for the Advancement of Food Science and Technology, Inc.,
February 29, 2000. This 1999 survey included mango, calamansi, bell pepper, tomato and lettuce and the
survey area covered the Ilocos Region, Cordillera, and Cagayan Valley.



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
4 Year I Rural Infrastructure Sub-Projects Comprising the Investment
Support for Local Market Development Component
Through a series of regional stakeholder consultations followed by detailed discussions with
prospective proponents in the four focus areas of the DFIMDP, a set of six rural
infrastructure projects were lined up for possible investment and implementation support for
the first year of the Project (See Table 2 below). Sub-projects were identified in only 3 of the
4 focus areas of DFIMDP, due to a number or reasons having to do with readiness to
provide funding counterpart and readiness for implementation. The map in Figure 1 presents
graphically the location of the DFIMDP focus areas.
Table 2. Brief Descriptions of Sub-Projects for Year 1 Implementation
Focus     Project Name        Location                    Description
Area
Cordillera  JNR-Loo-Taba-  Barangay Loo,      Rehabilitation of an existing farm-to-market
ao-BPI-         Buguias, Benguet    road spanning 2.4 km long and 3 to 4 meters
Barangay Road   Province           wide; Gravelling, concrete paving of tire paths
Rehabilitation                     and improvement of drainage
Cordillera  JNR-Loo-Pan-   Barangay Loo,      Gravelling, concrete paving of tire paths and
Ayaoan-BPI      Buguias, Benguet    improvement of drainage to improve the
Barangay Road   Province           quality and extend the useful life of an existing
Rehabilitation                     farm-to-market road spanning 3.0 km long
and 3 to 4 meters wide;
Cordillera  Paoay-Cattubo  Barangays   Paoay  Rehabilitation of an existing 7-km farm-to-
Barangay Road   and                market road; Gravelling, concrete paving of
Rehabilitation  Cattubo,           tire paths and improvement of drainage to
Municipality of    provide year-round post-harvest transport
Atok, Benguet      convenience to traders and growers of
Province           vegetables in the area
Northern   Kibangay-       Kibangay,          Rehabilitation of an old logging road that
Mindanao   Tumpagay        Bukidnon           serves as farm-to-market road connecting
(Reg. 10)  Road                               production areas in the buffer zone of Mt.
Rehabilitation                     Kitanglad National Park with national arterial
roads leading to major trading points in the
region; Gravelling, concrete paving of tire
paths and improvement of drainage along a 5
km stretch of barangay road.
Northern   Impasug-Ong     Impasug-Ong,       Gravelling and improvement of drainage of
Mindanao   Road System     Bukidnon           farm-to-market roads connecting to the
(Reg.10)                                      National Highway, as follows:
La Fortuna-SanJuan Road (15.5 km)
Intavas-Tigbao Road (15.5 km)
Kubayan-Kibenton-Cawayan (15.5 km)
Central    Mantalongon-    Barangays          Gravelling and improvement of drainage along
Visayas    Caleriohan      Mantalongon and    an existing farm-to-market barangay road
(Reg. 7)   Road            Caleriohan,        spanning 6.0 km long and 3 to 4 meters wide
Rehabilitation  Municipality of
Dalaguete, Cebu   I
6



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Figure 1. Location Map for the DFIMDP Focus Areas
1SD      20       22Z     28        228      228
DFIMP PROJECTS SITES
+        +        +                               0
MT. PROVINC            t.4
(197,195 ha)
_       +        +    _            100  0   100 200      _
BENGUET           _                Kilometers
(255,000 ha)
CAPIZ 
(252,000 ha)
+                            8900h4) 
-ILOIL              %
(469,000 ha)
lk
:. ^' * B~UKIDNON
55 0     +(906,000 ha)
r'  NEGROS ORIENTAL
15,05.000 ha),
*18      120      122      128      120     12D
5 Baseline Environmental Characterization/Profiling of the Sub-Project Sites
5.1 Benguet Province
Located in the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR), one of the DFIMDP focus areas, the
Province of Benguet has 13 municipalities with a total land area of 260,313 hectares, of
which 19% or 49,122 hectares are agricultural land. The province borders the City of
Baguio, a highly urbanized tourist destination and a major trading center for agricultural
produce for CAR (See Figure 2. Location Map of Benguet Province).
7



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Figure 2. Location Map of Benguet Province
PROVINCE OF SENGUET
AND MT. PPROVINCE
-   '1-01  , 3t1t1. .   I   -; DA-DFIMP FOCUS SITE
10  0  10  20
| L....                                             1<S ooooeters
, IL S # p-  ±    _.                *LEGEND
.Focus Muni4palites
Road Network
_  t   T  t f J  <;VANK;Y;N   -  < t 0 .'*.*-*  ±  t1,
._ L  1ll:l  w \ '-1
X - tji. 'I-                    t. -i_.                     .
+                           +~~~~~  +
E     f    \     :  t'     +     t     X<    ;9Si    t - ''i. '.:_.
Table 3. Land Area of Benguet/CAR Focus Area (hectares)
Cordillera Administrative Region   1,843,879
Benguet Province                   265,500
Buguias Municipality                      21,279
Loo Barangay                             1,500
Atok Municipality                         22,147
Paoay Barangay                          2,176
Cattubo Barangay                         2,414
The elevation of Benguet province ranges from 300 to 2,992 meters above sea level.
In terms of topography, about 48% of its total land area in classified as very steep (more
than 25% slope), while some 33% are moderately steep (8-25% slope) and only 19% have
gently sloping /undulating terrain (less than 8% slope).
Undifferentiated/unclassified mountain soils constitute most of the mountainous areas. This
type of soil is highly suitable for forest and fruit trees and vegetable crops. In Buguias, loam
and clay loam are dominant, which are suitable for cultivation. In Atok, sandy, loam and clay
loam are the common soil types. These soil types predominate in Paoay and in Cattubo. In
the province, basaltic and andesite flows and breccias with minor interbeds of sandstone
argillites and pyroclastic rocks are the most dominant formations.  According to the
Philippine Institute of Volcanology (PHIVOLCS), Buguias is one of the centers of volcanic
activity in CAR.
8



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
The landholdings of Benguet are generally small with each household cultivating less than a
hectare on the average. Most farms are irrigated (about 75 %) while the rest are rain-fed
areas (about 25 %). The land use pattern in the municipalities where the sub-projects will be
located is presented in Table 4 below. In Buguias, the largest land use component is
forestland, followed by agricultural land, located mostly in gently sloping portions of Loo
Valley. In Cattubo and Paoay in the municipality of Atok, vegetable farms are located in the
moderately steep portions of the subproject area, but most of these farms are terraced-a
measure primarily for soil and water conservation.
Benguet and most of the area in the Cordillera region is located within an ancestral domain
claim, which is under the jurisdiction of the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples
(NCIP).
Table 4. Landuse Pattern in Buguias and Atok Municipalities in Benguet
Province
Buguias               Atok
Hectares  % Dist'n  Hectares  % Dist'n
Forest                            8,912     42%        328       15%
Agricultural Land                 6,718      31%      1,525      70%
Built-up / Settlement Areas        841       4 %       79        4 %
Open/ Grass! Brushland / Pasture Land  4,808  23%      244       11%
Total                           21,279     100%      2,176     100%
5.1.2 Flora
The dominant vegetation in the municipality of Buguias is pine or coniferous forest. Benguet
pine (Pinus kesiya) is the dominant species. Associated low-growing vegetation includes
Rono (Miscanthus sinensis), sunflower (Helianthus annuus), lantana/sapinit (Lantana
camara), bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum), desmodium (Desmodium intortum), napier
(Pennisetum purpureum)  and stylosanthes (Stylosanthes guianensis). White potato,
cabbage, carrot, green onion, and celery are commonly grown in the municipality and in the
vicinity of the proposed road rehabilitation project (Loo Valley).
In Atok, the major forest vegetation are composed of Benguet pine (Pinus kesiya), alnus
(Alnus maritima), and anabiong (Trema orientalis). Stylosanthes spp., Desmodium spp.,
samsamon (Themeda trianda) and napier (Pennisetum purpureum). Among the vegetables
grown in the area are cabbage, carrots, broccoli, onions, potato and lettuce, banana (Musa
spp.), sweet potato (Ipomeoa batatas), gabi and chayote.
Farmers in Benguet are confronted with pest problems, as shown on Table 5. The pest
profile indicates that key commercial crops of the Benguet are susceptible to many pests
that cause serious damage to their stems and leaves. These include leaf miners, aphids,
white flies and the diamond back moth, among others. These are being controlled through a
number of practices which include some use of commercial chemical inputs. The commonly
used brands, their active ingredient and WHO classification are listed in Table 6.
The approach to pest management in major crops like rice, corn, and vegetables has
already been institutionalized so much so that farmers' participation has been proven to be
effective in implementing the IPM program. In the DFIMD project sites, the farmers' level of
9



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
knowledge and awareness of [PM in highland vegetables is high (about 90 %). In fact, the
IPM pilot projects began in 1992 in the Cordilleras. Thereafter, the projects were carried out
nationwide whereby every region has adopted the IPM program. The Farmers Field School
(FFS) was cited by farmers as their main source of technical assistance in upgrading the
knowledge and skills particularly in farm management activities like fertilizer and soil fertility
management, pest control strategies, and other cultural management practices, including
soil conservation. DA should ensure that these crop protection practices are monitored well
and sustained with continuous flow of information and technical guidance to farmers, LGU
extension workers and other concerned groups at the local level.
Table 5 Pest Profile in High Value Commercial Crops (HVCC) in Benguet
Current Pest Management
Crop          Pest       Type of Damage         Practices (Control
Measures)
Potatoes      Leaf miners   Larvae bore tunnels  Use of yellow trap with grease
inside leaves       oil.
Use of Cartap and Trigard.
Aphids       Suck plant sap       Use of systemic insecticide.
Thrips       Suck plant sap       Use of systemic insecticide.
Cutworms     Cut stems and        Spraying with stomach and
Leaves             contact insecticide.
Whiteflies   Damage leaves by its  Spraying of systemic
sap/juice resulting to  insecticide.
drying-up.
Crucifers     Cutworms      Cut the stems and   Field sanitation
leaves
(Cabbage,     Diamond       Infestation is higher  Use of diadegma and other
Brocolli,     back moth    (80 %) in warmer     effective chemicals.
Cauliflower,                months; lower (20 %)
etc.)                      during rainy or cold
months.
Table 6 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Benguet
Brand/Product         Active Ingredient      Type      WHO Classification
Name
Dithane             Mancozeb                  Fungicide          -
Manzate             Mancozeb                  Fungicide          -
Bida                Lambda                   Insecticide  Moderately Hazardous
Vancozeb            Mancozeb                  Fungicide          -
Karate 2.5 EC       Lambdac halothrine o25gl  Insecticide  Moderately Hazardous
Tamaron             Oraano phosphorous       Insecticide         -
Basudin             Diazinon                  Insecticide        -
Funguran            Copper hydroxide          Fungicide          -
Vertex              Chlorpyriphos            Insecticide         -
Magnum 5 EC         Cypermethrin              Insecticide        -
10



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
5.1.3 Fauna
Insects and birds are among the faunal species that abound in the province. Ayungin
(Therapon spp), eel/"igat" ( Anguilla spp.), mudfish/"dalag"(Ophiocephalus striatus), hito
(Clarias spp) are the common fish species which thrive in the Agno river. Tilapia (Tilapia
spp) are cultured and produced in Ambuklao and Binga lakes. Flies, ants and avian
species, among others abound in Buguias and Atok.
5.1.4 Water
The largest body of water in Benguet is the Agno river, which originates from Mount Data.
Its tributaries are sources of water for vegetable farms in the province. Springs are also
sources of water.
The Upper Agno River is classified as Class "A" freshwaters (source: DENR-EMB, CAR),
which is of a quality that can be used for public water supply with minimal treatment. The
total suspended solid (TSS) level within the river system is within ambient standards (1,000
mg/I) set under DAO 34 s. 1990. This means that the TSS level is within Class "A" standard.
The mean monthly streamflow along the Agno River System is from 4.7 to 56.4 cm (source:
National Power Corporation).
5.1.5 Air
The climate and rainfall pattern of Benguet fall under Climatic Type I of the Corona
classification with wet season from May to October and dry from November to April. Annual
rainfall ranges from 2,294 mm to 4,177 mm with six months (May-October) experiencing
rainfall. July and August are the wettest months since about 85 percent of the annual rainfall
occur during these months (source: CHARMP/DA).
It has a relatively cool tropical climate with temperatures ranging from 9.6 C° in January to
about 26 CO in April. The average maximum temperature is 22.80 C while the average
minimum temperature is about 13.70 C.  This micro-meteorological condition is very
favorable for vegetable production. Farming does not impair air quality. The ongoing road
rehabilitation works along the Halsema Highway does not contribute significant amount of
dust to affect air quality.
5.1.6 People
The National Statistics Office (NSO) reported that the Cordillera is the least populated region
in the Philippines, reaching about 1.37 million in 2000. Benguet is the most populated
province in the region with a total count of 322,000 owing partly to the migration of families
from the various other provinces in the Cordillera. Despite that, Benguet registered the
lowest growth rate at 0.58% annually. Residents of Benguet are relatively young with half of
its population below 20 years of age. About 14 % of families in Benguet province are poor
or have average incomes below the poverty threshold. The main sources of income and
livelihood are farming, mining and quarrying. The population of Benguet originated from the
Ifugao and Igorot indigenous cultural communities. While having maintained strong ties with
their rich cultural and social roots, current residents of Benguet are well integrated with
mainstream social and political systems.



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
5.1.7 Protected Areas, Critical Natural Habitats, Areas of Ecological and
Biodiversity
The farms at Loo Valley are located immediately below the plateau of the Mount Data
National Park where there is vegetable farm intensification;The DENR, in cooperation with
Buguias municipal and Loo barangay governments, placed restrictions on the use of the
park and its resources. Further, there is a Park Development and Management Plan that is
being enforced jointly by the DENR and LGUs to protect, conserve and sustain the fragile
forest ecosystem.
The proposed road rehabilitation project at Cattubo and Paoay in Atok, Benguet are located
on the western part of the Upper Agno River, whereas the declared Mount Pulag National
Park is on the eastern part of the river. In other words, the project site and the Mt. Pulag
are separated by the Upper Agno River. Thus, the proposed road rehabilitation project and
the agricultural activities in its influence area are not physically within the boundaries of the
Mt. Pulag and is not to be restricted directly by the existing conservation rules being
enforced there.
5.2 Bukidnon
Bukidnon is one of five provinces in Northern Mindanao (Region 10). It consists of 22
municipalities and has a total land area of 829,000 hectares. The province is richly endowed
with favorable climatic conditions and natural resources that make it suitable for the
productions of almost any crop or livestock. Its topography is predominated by vast areas of
rolling timberland with an average elevation of 915 meters.
Figure 3 Location Map of DFIMDP Areas in Bukidnon
IW, -1  I'    I . "  12 -1 W-  Z. 1z1'17"  0z-1 16"    Z 1-B'1I
M..000            1-.000            ,,0000                      BUKIDNON PROVINCE
Cluster Sites
CAGAYAN DE ORO
6< ai  0  20et  i
App,- S-1Ie 1 600 000
'- _C.IYA E              8'"                                  Cluster Grouping>
Q.                                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLUSTER 1  CLUSTER 2
.-   mpasug-ong  Baungon
r.   __                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Libona  Talakag
C~~~_ -:4 -h                   zt_ :..4 ~~~~~~~~~~~Malitbog  CLUSTER 3
Manolo Fortich  Cabanglasan
Sumilao     M alaybalay
San, Fernanrdo
8 +                                                         "s. ' e   Ei_ U - U | LEGEND'  LSantapLa nan
/\'Roads
.   Cluster 2  - Water
17                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cluster 3  Built-up
Elevation (masl)
0-100      1799-1899
-  ~ ~~~~              200~~~~~-300  1999 -2099
~~~j +                                             400-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  2199 -2299
600-700 2399-2499
600-700 2599-2699
_ 8                          +                   .. l fi 800-900 L  2799-2899
1000-1100
.1  NORrNcOTRBATO  DAI/AOfl~~~~L StiR         1200-1300
.- .. . ..                                                   1400-1500
1600-1 700
610000o           700000             710000          -            6010
, 120160     ,-12016      12611b'7"     tl1-1'1*     121166'11
12



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Its highest peak is Mt. Kitanglad (2,379 meters above sea level) located at the center of the
province and is declared as a National Park. The major water resources of the province are
the navigable Pulangi River along with two other systems, Cagayan River and Tagoloan
River.
5.2.1 Land
The total land area of the province is 829,000 hectares. Table 7 below shows the land area
of the focus area and the municipalities where the sub-projects are located.  In terms of
topography, about 75% (621,750 ha) of the province's total area are classified as strongly
sloping to very steep slopes (exceeding 18% gradient); the remaining 25 percent (207,250
ha) are in slope gradient of below 18 %, consisting mostly of gently sloping terrain.
Elevation ranges from 300 - 1500 meters above sea level.
The soil in the area consists of clay and clay loam for moderately sloping areas and sandy
loam in the mountain areas. Soils are derived from fine-grained volcanic rocks, various
sedimentary derivatives and pyroclastics (volcanic ashes). Volcanic flows are andesite to
basaltic in composition. Rocks consist of chemicals like pyrite (FeS4) and Chalcopyrite
(CuFe2), an ore Copper sphalrite and zinc.
Table 7 Land Area of Northern Mindanao Focus Area and Bukidnon (hectares)
Northern Mindanao (Region 10)       1,403,300
Bukidnon Province                  829,000
Lantapan Municipality                     35,996
Kibangay Barangay                        5,090
lmpausg-Ong Municipality                 107,167
Kibenton                                 2,670
La Fortuna                               7,886
In terms of land classification about 40% (336,412 hectares) of Bukidnon is classified as
alienable and disposable (A&D) while the remaining 60% (492,966 hectares) is classified as
public forest according to DENR records. However, only about 27% (224,000 hectares) of
the province is actually forested. 2
In terms of land use, agriculture is the dominant land use on 400,000 hectares or almost half
of the province, followed by grass or brush land (24%), and forest (23%) and pasture land
(5%). The settlements (included in the agricultural land) are predominantly upland
indigenous or mixed communities practicing traditional or imported3 land use practices
(borrowed technology), and accessing the forests and other natural resources of the
protected area.
2 Imagery from a SPOT satellite in 1987 showed that the vegetative cover of the province included some
223,830 hectares of remaining forest with only about one-third residual or second growth forest.
3Some farmers who have migrated from Benguet to Bukidnon have introduced farming practices in sloping
areas that are proving to be damaging to upland areas in Bukidnon, particularly Lantapan.
13



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Finol Report
5.2.2 Flora
The most common form of vegetation is dipterocarp forest (residuals-dominated)
represented by lauan species, molave forest type represented by Banaba (Lagerstroema
speciosa), Tindalo (Afzelia rhomboida), Dao (Dracontomelon dao), Dapdap (Erythrina
variegata), and Ficus (Ficus spp) are the dominant vegetation. Miscellaneous species like
Kakauate (Gliricidia sepium), bamboo (Bambusa spp), Kahoy dalaga (Mussaendra
philippica), various shrubby and herbaceous species also abound.
For the farming areas, corn, coffee, cabbage, potatoes, sugarcane and banana are the
major crops. The growing season of annual crops is normally at least nine months while
most perennial crops continue growing throughout the year.
Based on the interview conducted with the farmers in Lantapan, majority of them were using
inorganic fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides for better and higher crop yield. It was noted
that the use of such chemical inputs was being practiced without proper technical guidance
from agricultural extension workers or DA field personnel. In some cases, DA technicians
were known to have introduced the use of chemicals for higher yield.
Table 8 shows the list of chemical pesticide brand names with their corresponding active
ingredients and their environmental risk classification according to the World Health
Organization. To address risks associated with unguarded use of chemical inputs, there is
need for the DA RFU and the LGU to more actively promote integrated pest management
practices in the influence area. There may also be a need to formulate and implement a
local pest management plan which can be implemented and monitored collaboratively by the
DA RFU and the LGU Municipal Agriculture Officer (MAO).
Table 8 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Lantapan,
Bukidnon
Brand/Product        Active Ingredient      Type      WHO Classification
Name
Dithane             Mancozeb                 Fungicide          -
Manzate             Mancozeb                 Fungicide          -
Karate 2.5 EC       Lambdacyhalothrine (25g/1)  Insecticide  Moderately Hazardous
Magnum 5 EC         Cypermetrin             Insecticide         -
Round Up            Isopropylamin/           Herbicide          -
Monoammonium
glyphossate
5.2.3 Fauna
Mindanao forest mouse (Tarsomys spp.), Black rat (Rattus rattus), Pygmy squirrel
(Nannosciurus surrutilus), Philippine green pigeon (Treron pampadera), water cock
(Gallierex cinarea), among others, are the common animal species. These animals are
essential predators of insects that damage the growth and production of crops. The Mt.
Kitanglad National Park is one of the natural habitats of the endangered Philippine eagle
(Pithecophaga jeffery,). Carpa (Cyrinos carpio), Tilapia (Tilapia nilotica), Puyo (Anabas
testudineus), and Gourami spotted (Trichogaster spp), among others are some of the
aquatic species.
14



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
5.2.4 Water
Alanib, Manupali, Maagnao, Kulasihan, Tugasan, and Tinago are the six major river systems
found in the area, and as much as 40 creeks-tributaries traverse the area. Springs are the
primary sources of water for the farms and household needs. Recent hydrologic studies that
were done for a proposed water supply system for Lantapan showed that the quality of their
raw water is very good. This is due mainly to the fact that no industries are located in the
area.
5.2.5 Air
Climatic conditions in the area are classified under type IlIl or the intermediate A of the
Corona classification where dry season is not pronounced, though it is relatively dry from
November to April and wet during the rest of the year. The annual rainfall in the province is
in around 2,500 mm, it ranges from 1,900 mm in the driest northern portion and to a high of
3,000 mm in the central and eastern mountain ranges. The heaviest rainfall recorded was
almost 0.6 meter (589.9 mm) in Malaybalay (PAG-ASA). However, at higher altitudes in
mountainous headwaters even higher intensities probably occur at greater frequencies, with
major implications for watershed management.
The mean maximum atmospheric temperature is 280 C and minimum is 19.60 C. The
relative humidity is usually high, ranging from a minimum of around 85 percent in March to
90 percent in October. Dust and other particulates emitted due to farming and other
activities have not been reported to have adverse impacts on air quality in the area.
5.2.6 People
The population of Bukidnon is estimated at 844,000 in 2000, with the majority of its residents
located in rural areas, but the growth of its urban population is faster than rural population.
Like most of the provinces in Mindanao, Bukidnon's population is composed of migrants
from Luzon and Visayas, as well as other provinces of Mindanao, who have converged and
settled in the area since the late 1940's. The original settlers are called Manobos and
Mananapes. There are many indigenous tribes now found in the province-Bukidnon, Tala-
andig, Higa-onon, Umayamnon, Matigsalog and Monobos-with more than one tribe
coexisting in one municipality. By and large, the indigenous cultural communities are mostly
nomadic and engaged in crude farming practices, including "slash and burn" farming
methods in land development.
5.2.7 Protected Areas, Critical Natural Habitats
The proposed road rehabilitation project in Barangay Kibangay, Lantapan is located in the
buffer zone of Mt. Kitanglad National Park. The perimeter of the forest is bounded by a
declared buffer zone that absorbs the influx of migrants that have engaged in vegetable
production through slashand burnagriculture. Part of the influence area of the Kibangay
project includes the scattered patches of vegetable farms within this buffer zone. The basic
strategy for development in the buffer zone is sustainable farming where farmers are
encouraged to use appropriate technologies for sloping areas in order to conserve the soil
and enrich its fertility. While productivity is maintained in their farms, there is less probability
that the farmers would need to migrate into the forest protection zone.
The Protected Area Management Board (PAMB) of Mt. Kitanglad, a decision-making body of
the park or reserve has been very active in the administration and management of the Mt.
Kitanglad National Park. This Board has organized the "Kitanglad Volunteers' Brigade" and



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Final Report
almost all barangays surrounding           the  park  are   involved   in the park's protection.       The
Lantapan Municipal Mayor, as a member of the PAMB, shares the responsibility with other
stakeholders     in  the  implementation      of conservation      measures.      Therefore     the  future
decisions regarding the subproject will ensure that the proposed subproject activities will not
impinge on the PAMB plans for the conservation of the National Park.
Functions and Activities of the Mount Kitanglad PAMB
Resource Access in the Buffer Zone
*   Identifying or surveying and registration of qualified buffer zone occupants for the fast approval/issuance of
their tenurial instruments, restricting entry of new occupants, and preventing land grabbing
Protection and Enforcement
*   Organization of multi-sectoral protection committee at the barangay level which will help in the protection
and rehabilitation of denuded areas within the park.
*   Involvement and encouragement of communities to participate in the protection and maintenance of the
park.
Environmnental Education
*   Establishment of environmental awareness program  such as bringing specialists/experts to promote
development, conservation, and other related activities.
*   Promotion of ecotourism activities within the park like mountain hiking/trekking.
*   Information and education campaigns on proper land use and effects of forest loss and degradation;
Community Development
*   Provision of training and credit support on livelihood activities of communities to avoid conflict on resource
extraction and management.
*   Strengthen/reinforce institutional linkages of communities to service agencies that would help them in
community development along with the management of their resources, and livelihood programs.
*   Promotion of agricultural projects like establishment of local nursery and provision of free planting
materials of ecologically and commercially viable crops; Soil erosion, siltation and pollution of water bodies
such as lakes, streams, and rivers found in the protected areas would be minimized if not avoided.
Social Services
*   Rehabilitation of existing trails and roads to improve access of communities to essential services.
*   Promotion of the use of indigenous biomedicines
5.3 Cebu
The province of Cebu is located in the Central Visayas Region, as one of the DFIMDP focus
areas. It is located in a narrow strip of land in the center of the region and comprises a total
of about 167 islands. The province has a total land area of 508,839 hectares, of which
315,138 hectares (62%) are being utilized for agriculture. The location map of Cebu
province is shown in Figure 4.
5.3.1 Land
The estimated land area for the focus area and the locality for the subproject site is shown
below.
Table 9 Land Area of Central Visayas Focus Area and Cebu (hectares)
Central Visayas (Region 7)                       1,843,879
CebuProvince                                   508,839
Dalaguete Municipality                                   15,496
The topography of the island-province is made up of rough mountains and rolling steep
slopes in the highlands. Dalaguete, which is the site of the proposed road rehabilitation
project, consists of gently sloping (3-8%), undulating to rolling to steeply sloping (18-50%).
16



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
The soil is predominantly of sandy loam and silty clay loam composition in the province and
even at the vicinity of the proposed subproject (Caleriohan and Mantalongon).
Copper is the main mineral of the province. Coal, dolomite, limestone, Mactan stone,
blackstone, guano, silicious sand and cement are among the non-metallic minerals found in
the province.
Figure 4 Location Map of Central Visayas Focus Area and Cebu Province
000000   a+00000   30000o   00000    300000         CEBU CLUSTER
6__ U^JAN U G / SBNA 
2 ,J 0  2*t
(App-o,  S..le  I 30000)
8   LEGEND
.. Roads
Built-up Areas
Corrals
Elevation (masfl meters
0- I 00  600  700
+                                     +020          200 -30  600  9000
I 400 -50 0 900  1000
8
A Uyoc  BOIIOON                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.p Sol.- DA
About 72% of Cebu's land area is classified as alienable and disposable and the balance of
28% is classified as forest land. A large portion (86%) of the A&D lands are devoted to
agriculture.
Barangay Dugyan, which is the primary influence area of the proposed road rehabilitation
project, is the farthest upland barangay south of Mantalongan-the vegetable market center
of Dalaguete. Adjacent barangays traversed by the road include barangays Nalhub and
Catalohan. The combined land area of these barangays is 1,956 hectares, of which around
157 hectares (8%) are devoted to agriculture. The farming area is limited by the rugged
topography with few patches of flat lands, but they are irrigated by rich sprng sources. Most
of the farms are using Sloping Agricultural Land Technology (SALT).
5.3.2 Flora
Molave forest represented by Molave (Vitex parviflora), Kamagong (Diospyros
philippinensis), Ficus spp., Tindalo (Afzelia rhomboida) and Cinamomum spp.are the primary
vegetation in the municipality; miscellaneous forest species like Dapdap (Erythrina
variegata), Kakauate (Gliricidia sepium), Hauili (Ficus hauili), Ipil-ipil (Leucaena
leucocephala), among others and medicinal plants abound in the area.
17



DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Finol Report
Farmers in the municipality of Dalaguete were taught scientific techniques to increase farm
productivity and production efficiency of vegetables. Modern farming principles are widely
known and practiced, including multiple cropping and the use of organic fertilizer and good
quality seeds. According to the farmers, attacks of pests and diseases in the area are
negligible because they practice mixed cropping.. However, they find it unavoidable to
resort to the use of some chemical insecticides and pesticides. The commonly used
chemical inputs are shown in Table 10.
Table 10 Commonly Used Pesticides and other Chemical Inputs in Lantapan,
Bukidnon
Product Name          Active Ingredient      Type      WHO Classification
Dithane             Mancozeb                  Fungicide
Manzate             Mancozeb                  Fungicide
Karate 2.5 EC       Lambdacyhalothrine (25g/1) Insecticide  Moderately Hazardous
Magnum 5 EC         Cypermetrin               Insecticide
Round Up            Isopropylamin/            Herbicide
Monoammonium
_____ _____ _____ glypI hossate
5.3.3 Fauna
Dark-throated oriole, Cebu flower-pecker (Dicaeum quadricolor) and Black shama (siloy) are
among the birds that are still existing in the remaining forest patches of Cebu. Kawasan
paper kite (Idea leuconejumalon,), a butterfly species, is endemic in the site. This butterfly
is vital in pollination activities.
5.3.4 Water
Springs of hinterland barangays like Mantalongon (focus site), Caleriohan, Dugyan, and
other hilly mountain areas are among the main sources of water supply in Dalaguete. Re-
vegetation of these mountains is needed, since the forest cover is now about 28 % percent
or less.
Among the water sources in the municipality are Dalaguete Water District, Casay, Lanao,
Malones, Tuba, Caliongan and Langkas water systems. So far, there are no reported
problems in the water quality and supply in the vicinity of the subproject site. However,
DENR with the coordination of the municipality of Dalaguete continuously implement
programs on watershed rehabilitation/development and protection to support or improve
hydrologic conditions there.
5.3.5 Air
The climate and rainfall patterns of Cebu are categorized as Type IlIl climate of the Corona
classification where dry season is from November to April and the rest of the year is wet
season. Atmospheric temperature ranges from 22.6 to 33.1C0. The coolest temperature is
normally felt in January and the warmest in May. The mountain barangays have cool
climate; Mantalongon is also known as the "little Baguio" of Cebu where high-value
vegetables and cut flowers are produced. The level of air pollution or nuisances from dust
due to road construction and other sources have not been reported pose any hazard or
threat.
18



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
5.3.6 People
Of the more than 5 million people living in the Central Visayas Region (Region 7), 2.6 million
or more than half are residents of Cebu province. The Cebu metropolis has been attracting
a yearly stream of migrants from nearby Visayan provinces since the export boom in the
1970's, which brought about rapid industrialization and increased demand for labor. The
population is still predominantly Cebuano-speaking and a small minority is llonggo, but
virtually everybody understands Tagalog and English.
Being in one of the most economically progressive regions in the country, the magnitude of
poverty in Cebu province is relatively less than most other provinces. In 2000, it had a
poverty incidence estimated at 28.7 % of families having incomes below the poverty
threshold. This is better than the regional poverty incidence of 32.3% and the national level
of 36%.
Quite a contrast to the modern metropolis that dominates the economy of Cebu, the
municipality of Dalaguete is still reliant on agriculture. It constitutes some of the province's
hilly barangays that have been isolated by rugged terrain and poor quality road system. The
influence area of the road rehabilitation project (Dugyan, Nalhub and Catolohan barangays)
is primarily devoted to traditional livelihoods such as small-scale farming, livestock raising,
trading and basket weaving.
5.3.7 Protected Areas, Critical Natural Habitats
The site of the proposed road rehabilitation project in Dalaguete Cebu, is located at the foot
of the Osmenia peak and other mountain ranges. The production areas to be benefited by
the road are however located in the hilly barangays which also serve as the watershed of the
municipality. Measures to maintain the quality of the water resources have to be in place,
including continuous assistance to farmers for proper handling of chemical inputs and
expansion of areas under integrated pest management.
6 Environmental Impact Assessment
6.1 "Without Project" Scenario
6.1.1 Poor road conditions
Without the project, the farms in the subproject areas will remain largely under the same
inefficient farming operations as there is no active trading with large buyers or processors
who generally require consistent quality and reliable supply of produce The subproject areas
will remain isolated from government services and outside the scope of commercial trading
operations of private trading associations in Bukidnon due to the unfavorable physical
conditions.
6.1.2 Shifting Cultivation
The upland areas with fragile ecosystems remain susceptible to encroachment by migrant-
farmers seeking more fertile areas. Most of the sites that were selected for the market-
support infrastructure subprojects for the first year of Project implementation happen to be
located in remote rural barangays where landless people have migrated and settled. Some
of the sites are located in mountainous terrain which have been encroached by farmers
practicing "slash and burn" methods of land clearing and development for the past 20-30
years. While most of them are settled now, the mere presence of migrant farmers could
pose as a long-term threat to the remaining forested areas in their vicinity. Farming
19



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
techniques that are inappropriate for sloping terrain will continue to be widely practiced by
the farmer-migrants in the upland areas of the subproject sites, as most of them are
untrained to do sustainable farming operations, especially in Lantapan.
The risk of encroachment is being addressed by existing natural resource management
plans that are in place for the protection of such forest resources in the protected areas near
the Lantapan and the Atok subproject areas. As long as the institutional arrangements
remain active and local government units continue to cooperate with each other, these
measures can reduce the risk of encroachment into the protected areas.
6.1.3 Occurrence of surface runoff (SRO) and soil erosion (SE).
Farming in the upland areas, if not done and managed properly, may lead to surface runoff
and soil erosion in the long-term that will result in the reduction of soil fertility. Eventually
they affect productivity of the farm and may cause the farmer to move to other areas.
Likewise, SRO and SE can lead to siltation and sedimentation of water bodies, which are
important resources in most of the subproject areas. The influence area of the Dalaguete
road project is partly within the site of the municipality's watershed. The municipality of
Lantapan in Bukidnon also has six major river systems found in the area, with 40 creeks-
tributaries traversing the area. While there are no problems that are reported yet in the
volume and quality of their water supply, unchecked erosion in the upland farming areas
may cause a reduction of the volume of water in creeks and streams in the long-run.
6.1.4 Watershed Rehabilitation
Efforts of farmers to increase production are made to conform with conservation plans for
the upland areas. Programs and projects under the Bukidnon Environmental and Natural
Resources (BENRO) include watershed rehabilitation, establishment of tree plantations,
parks and wildlife management, and environment and pollution management, among others.
Presently, the DA RFU is very active in providing technical assistance to farmers in the Mt.
Kitanglad buffer zone with regard to sustainable farming practices. In Buguias, Benguet
where the subproject area is located immediately below the plateau of the Mt. Data National
Park, the DENR in cooperation with Buguias Municipal and Loo Barangay governments, has
imposed restrictions on the use of the park resources and formulated a Park Development
and Management Plan to protect and conserve the fragile ecosystem.
6.1.5 Chemical Residue Levels
The government's capacity to monitor and report regularly the actual levels of chemical
residues in the focus areas (at the municipal level) is presently very weak. Without the
Project, the public remains ignorant of the environmental problems that may already be
arising from unregulated and unmonitored use of agricultural chemical inputs in the
subproject areas. These are lost opportunities for what could have been more effective
advocacy for integrated pest management at the local and at the national levels.
6.1.6 Pest Management
There is a high level of awareness of integrated pest management methods in most of the
farms in the subproject areas. Its actual application is however variable and depends on the
ability of the LGU and DA farmer education programs to sustain the flow of technical
20



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
assistance and monitor activities, especially during phases of production intensification and
crop diversification.
6.2"With Project" Scenario
The negative environmental impacts from the civil works are generally minimal, temporary
and immediately reversible with appropriate mitigation measures that can incorporated in the
technical specifications of the subproject. However, since the location of the subprojects are
in the upland areas, some negative environmental impacts are foreseen to arise in the long-
term if farming activities are intensified.  These are associated with aggravated
environmental risks that are pre-existing in the area, such as the long-term effects of
inappropriate planting methods in slopes, unguarded pesticide use, encroachment of
remaining forests, which were observed in some of the subproject areas in varying degrees.
The subproject creates an opportunity to combine the efforts of DA, DENR and the LGUs to
regulate economic activities in the subproject influence areas existing plans for protection of
fragile upland ecosystems are preserved.
6.2.1 Improved Road Conditions to the Inner Barangays
The market support investment for the focus areas will be channeled mostly to the
rehabilitation of existing farm-to-market roads that have fallen into disrepair. Minor civil works
are involved such are site preparation, gravelling and rehabilitation of drainage canals.
Concrete paving, if any, will be limited to tire paths along the middle of the road. As such,
the subprojects will not cause significant incremental impact to the land, water, air and
human components of the environment.
No land acquisition is going to be needed as areas covered by the subprojects are
existingand free from any conflicting claims, current usage and legal encumbrances.
Land/site clearing will be limited to minor excavation works, brushing of grasses and other
shrubs on roadsides in preparation for road surfacing and installation of drainage canals.
Negative impacts on vegetation in the vicinity of the subproject will be temporary and
immediately reversible through regeneration.
6.2.2 Better Access to Information and Agricultural Extension Services
The project will also bring about better access of farmers to government services due to the
better quality of roads and the increased market transactions in the area. It is anticipated
that more frequent contacts with government extension workers will lead to more effective
conservation and environmental protection measures under integrated pest management
programs, natural resource management plans, protected area management plans and
watershed rehabilitation plans. It could also create conditions for closer collaboration
between the DENR and the DA in the promotion of sustainable farming.
6.2.3 Increased Road Traffic
Any road improvement project is expected to generate an increased flow of vehicles into the
area. This may have disruptive effects on the air quality from smoke-belching overloaded
trucks and may also result in increased road accidents. Traffics can be regulated by the
LGU with the enforcement of local ordinances that can impose limits on truck loads and
schedule hauling activities.
21



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
7    Environmental Management Plan
7.1 Pre-implementation
There are no anticipated critical environmental impacts during the pre-implementation
phase as there are no physical works that will be done, except surveys.
7.2 Construction Phase
The activities during this phase will mainly involve site preparation that includes minor
excavation, vegetation brushing, hauling of aggregates and other materials.  The
environmental impacts that are likely to occur are surface runoff, soil erosion and siltation
and sedimentation of nearby water bodies. In order to mitigate against these impacts, the
subproject will provide slope and road cut protection and construct a road drainage system
for all the roads. The technical plans include riprapping, wattling, fascine installation and
vegetative lining including enrichment planting. Proper construction site management, proper
disposal of solid wastes and earth spoils will be observed at all time. It will also include
construction of sediment traps to prevent clogging of drainage canals. These works will be
incorporated in the technical specifications for compliance by LGUs and contractors.
The construction work may also generate dust and increase the noise levels in the vicinity of
the road project. The contractor will be required to regularly sprinkle the work areas with
water to avoid such nuisance on residents during construction. This will be enforced through
the regular monitoring of construction work by the Municipal Engineer or Project Manager of
the LGU.
7.30peration and Maintenance
Post-completion activities include the cleaning of drainage canals, filling of potholes, clearing
of overgrowth of vegetation along the sides of the road as part of the basic operation and
maintenance of the farm-to-market roads. These will be the responsibility of the barangay
and will be monitored by the Municipal Engineer through regular inspection. Such visits will
also enable the LGU to take action on any needed road and/or drainage repair.
7.4 Environmental Management Plan for Year-1 Subprojects
Table 11 presents the environmental management plan for the DFIMDP year 1 subprojects
indicating the predicted/potential impacts, the relevant mitigation measures and the persons
responsible for implementation. The monitoring plan for the individual subprojects will be
formulated in the course of EMP formulation and will reflect agreements made among
stakeholders during consultations.
7.5 Environmental Guidelines for DFIMDP Subprojects for Year 2 Onwards
For DFIMDP subprojects to be implemented in year 2 and onward will adopt a set of
Environmental Guidelines (attached as Annex to this report) that is consistent with the
Bank's and the government's environmental assessment policies.
8 Institutional Arrangements for Environmental Management
The broad range of immediate and long-term environmental impacts and the means to
address them go beyond the present capacity and scope of responsibilities of the Project's
lead agency, the Department of Agriculture. The focus of DA operations has traditionally
been in the promotion of certain crops and introducing related farming technologies where
there is potential for commercial production. Environmental screening of subprojects,
22



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
evaluation of environmental management plans, and giving advice to proponents on
environmental impact mitigation are not among the usual activities of the DA RFUs but can
be integrated in its regular functions. Even as DA RFUs do not have environmental
specialists who can handle very technical aspects of some complex EIA studies, they have
staff with basic skills in sciences and engineering that can be harnessed for these functions.
Institutional capacity to support environmental management needs of the DFIMDP focus
areas can be improved significantly with a clearer delineation and definition of functions of
DA and the DENR when it comes to upland farming. While some of the subproject areas are
under a natural resource management plan, the specific action plans do not directly involve
the DA whose concern is to support the farming activities and agricultural marketing in these
areas.
The integrated pest management program of the DA needs to be revived and given more
prominence in order to sustain the interest and high level of awareness of farmers. Since
extension services and farmer training are now the responsibility of the local government
units, the IPM information dissemination and promotional strategies should try to more
actively engage LGUs, especially those in upland areas and critical watersheds. Field
monitoring and follow-up technical services by the DA-RFU at the farm level are also as
important to make sure that recommended IPM methods are properly applied.4
8.1 Capacity Building and Institutional Arrangements for Environmental
Assessments
There is a need therefore to undertake the following institutional measures in each of the
RFUs, Proponent LGUs and Grower's Associations in preparation for environmental
assessment functions of the Project:
 Basic orientation on the Environmental Impact Assessment System, Environmental
Guidelines and familiarization with its forms, mandatory processes, technical criteria and
related policies and rules.
* Designate an appropriate person(s) in the DA-RFU staff who will act as environment
focal person for DFIMDP subprojects and other infrastructure projects supported by DA
in the region.
 Revive linkages with local government units for the renewal of integrated pest
management programs in the subproject areas and provide them assistance in the
preparation and monitoring of a sound pest management plan.
* Strengthen linkages with the DENR for better collaboration on the enforcement of rules
and regulations relevant to upland farming in critical watersheds and protected areas.
4 In the Philippines, the Maximum Residue Limits (MRL) for pesticides have not yet been established limits set
by Codex Alimentarius are used instead.
23



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Table 11 Environmental Management Plan for all Year-1 Subprojects
Project Type: Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm to Market Roads
Subproject               Possible             Mitigating /Enhancement        Responsible     Cost of
/Activities/             Environmental        Measures                       Agency I        Mitigation
Components               Effects /Impacts                                    Unit              (Php)
1.0 PRE-IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
1. I Planning and design  Enhanced stakeholder                               LGU
of road                 participation     - Hold meeting with project
rehabilitationlconstru                    beneficiaries and other
ction                                     stakeholders on the construction
plan, operation and management
plans and corresponding
environmental management plan
- Giving hiring preference to
qualified local community
1.2 Hiring of construction  Increased                                        LGU
workers/laborers        employment
opportunity and
community
income
TOTAL COST FOR PRE-IMPLEMENTATION
2.0 IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
2.1 Rehabilitation of    - Accumulation of     - Scrapping, removal & disposal  Contractor
Farm to Market Road     rubbish materials     of rubbish & foreign materials  /LGU
along the roadway     to the dumpsite of the
as a result of        municipality.
clearing & grubbing
operations.
- Loosening of top    - Compaction of topsoil as       Contractor
soil due to the       required by the specifications.  /LGU
removal of excess
earth materials
along the roadway.
- Existence of        - Hauling, spreading &            Contractor
slightly low laying   compacting of filling materials  /LGU
areas along the road  from earth cuts.
sections            - Hauling, spreading &
compacting of filling materials  Contractor/
from                            LGU
borrow pits to fill in low laying
areas.
- Muddy, soft,        - Hauling, spreading and
unstable road        compacting sub-base & surface    Contractor
foundation.          materials at .1 5mtrs. thick each  /LGU
from Sta. 0+000 to Sta. 6+000
- Hardly passable     - Provision of PCCP with . I 5mtr.  Contractor/
section along        thick                            LGU
Sta.0+260 to
Sta.0+480.
24



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Subproject               Possible             Mitigating / Enhancement      Responsible     Cost of
/Activities/             Environmental        Measures                      Agency /        Mitigation
Components               Effects /Impacts                                   Unit             (Php)
- Over flooding of the  - Provision of 40 lineS (610 dia  Contractor
road due to          RCPC) along the roadway as      /LGU
excessive            indicated in the plan.
accumulation of
rainwaters.         - Provision of 40 units Junction  Contractor
Box and 40 Units                /LGU
Outfall/Headwalls to convey
rainwater to RCPC and
drainage
- Road Sections      - Provision of 410 lin. Meters of  Contractor
damage due to no     lined canal at strategic location  /LGU
defined waterways    along the roadway.
for rain waters
- Constricting the   - Provision of traffic warning
normal traffic flow  signs, barricades and flagmen  Contractor
along the road.      along the road during the entire
work operations of the
Contractor.
- Schedule the delivery of
construction materials and
hauling out of waste materials
during off peak hours
- Degradation of air  - Road traversed by heavy     Contractor
quality as a result of  equipment use in the project
heavy equipment      shall be moist.
operation
- Noise of operating  -Exhaust mufflers of heavy    Contractor
vehicles beyond     equipment must be clean & be
normal levels.      provided with silencers.
-Ensure that all equipment are
maintained in proper working
condition
- Vehicular accidents  - Restrict work operations   Contractor
as a result of heavy  during daytime only.
equipment           - Drivers & heavy equipment
operation within the  operators shall operate heavy
subproject & nearby  equipment at reduced speed.
areas.              - Provide appropriate warning
signs, lighting and barricades,
whenever practicable
- Proper information
dissemination on the affected
areas.
- Erosion of slopes   - Provision of slope stabilization  LGU
measures such as planting of
cover crops, trees, etc. along
cut slopes.
- Occupational risk  - Require all workers to strictly  Contractor
and health hazards to  observe standards on safety
construction workers   construction measures
TOTAL COST OF CONSTRUCTION
25



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
Subproject              Possible            Mitigating / Enhancement     Responsible    Cost of
/Activities/            Environmental       Measures                     Agency /       Mitigation
Components             Effects /Impacts                                  Unit            (Php)
2.2 Trainings and       - Haphazard         - Provide adequate trainings to  DA-
Seminars              implementation of    sub-project implementers.  RFU/LGU
SPs
- Low quality of    - Provide adequate quality
constructed         control trainings to LGU &    DA-
infrastructure.     PPO staff.                  RFU/LGU
- Lack or no proper  - Provide adequate trainings on
maintenance of      O&M to LGUs and BITs.
completed SPs
DA-RFU/LGU
TOTAL COST OF TRAINING
2.3 Monitoring and      -Implementation of  -Closely monitor & supervised  LGU
supervision of sub-      sub-project not in  the work of the Contractor
project implementation.  accordance with the  using the project management
approved plans,     tools.
specifications &
quality
TOTAL COST OF MONITORING
3. POST IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
3.1 Operation &         Reduced farm income  - LGU to ensure proper use of   LGU
Maintenance             due to difficulty in  the road & its timely
transporting farm     maintenance for a period of 10
goods as a result of  years.
deterioration of road  - Provide appropriate warning
signs along the route, if
necessary
-Erosion of Road    - Planting of Shrubs & bushes &
Shoulders            selected trees along the road
shoulders.                  LGU
TOTAL COST FOR OF IMPLEMENTATION
8.2 Proposed Staffing Arrangements
8.2.1 The Local Government Unit
The LGU may designate either its Municipal Planning and Development Officer, Municipal
Agricultural Officer or Municipal Environment and Natural Resource Officer, where present,
to be the focal person on environment and other related safeguard aspects. The LGU focal
person will be responsible for (1) preparing the EMP or IEE Checklist or IEE Report; (2)
ensuring that measures are implemented by the contractor; (3) monitoring compliance by the
contractor with EMP; and (4) reporting to the Mayor on the status of compliance and
recommend remedial measures in case of deviations noted.
8.2.2 DA-RFU
The DA-RFU Director will designate a focal person on safeguards among its organic staff to
assist the LGU in preparing the EMP or IEE and other safeguards documents, review the
adequacy of the EMP or IEE and monitor compliance by the LGU on the EMP.
26



D F I M D P
Environmental Assessment Final Report
8.2.3 DENR Environment Management Bureau
Arrangements will be made with EMB for the screening, review and processing of
subprojects to ensure timely evaluation of ECC applications, provision of technical
assistance and capacity building activities for the DA, LGU and proponent organizations
such as grower associations on EIA requirements and EMP preparation.
27



