DFIMDP
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
E901
1   Background                                                     Volume 2
The Diversified Farm Income and Market Development (DFIMD) Project has adopted an
environmental policy framework in consideration of the requirements of the Philippine
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) System and the World Bank (WB) Environmental
Safeguard Policies.. It should be noted that no single mechanism could be attributed
exclusively to either the WB or Government of the Philippines (GOP) requirements. Each
element (e.g., environmental assessment, formulation of environmental management plan,
etc.) shall be undertaken or implemented in compliance with the requirements of both
systems.
The DFIMDP shall endeavor to integrate environmental considerations in all aspects of
project implementation. It adopts the following general guidelines:
*     All sub-projects shall comply with relevant GOP rules and regulations including but
not limited to Presidential Decree 1586 (Philippine EIS System) and the DENR
Administrative Order (AO) No. 2003-30 issued on July 2003, and the WB
Environmental Safeguard Policies;
*     All sub-project proponents shall demonstrate commitment and capability to integrate
environmental considerations in its program of activities or action plans;
*     All other stakeholders (e.g., contractors, NGO-partners, etc.) shall comply with
relevant environmental laws;
*     No sub-projects shall be approved without the appropriate Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) or Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC); and
*     All sub-projects will support a strategy among the growers within their influence area
to adopt the use of biological or environmental control methods for pest management
in order to reduce reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides.
To ensure that implementation of subproject activities adheres to the environmental policy
framework and to facilitate the proponents' compliance with the Project's environmental
safeguards, the following implementing guidelines on the processing and issuance of
environmental clearances for proposed subprojects shall be adopted.
The Department of Agriculture will forge a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) to support these guidelines to
be consistent with the procedures for a systematic review, processing and issuance of
environmental clearances as well as the scope and coverage of DA projects under the
Philippine EIS System.
The DA RFU will ensure that a sound integrated pest management plan is operative in the
influence area of the sub-projects so that the needed information, technical assistance and
support services are accessible to farmers for safe handling and judicious use of hazardous
chemicals that are contained in pesticides being used in the area. While DFIMDP is not
directly dealing with production concerns of farming communities, it is possible that with the
newly opened access to markets, farmers may decide to engage in new products or intensify
production activities that involve the use of chemical inputs, hence the need for sound pest
management.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    1
Environmental Framework and Guidelines                      F                         a



D F I M D P
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
2 General Provisions
2.1 Definition of Terms
For the purpose of these guidelines, the following definitions may be applied:
a. Certificate of Non-Coverage (CNC) - a certification issued to project proponents upon
their request, certifying that based on the submitted project description, the project is not
covered by the EIS System and are therefore not required to secure an ECC.
b. Environment - Surrounding air, water (both ground and surface), land, flora, fauna,
humans and their interrelation.
c. Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) - document issued by the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) of the DENR after a positive review of an
ECC application, certifying that based on the representations of the proponent, the
proposed project or undertaking will not cause significant negative environmental impact.
The ECC also certifies that the proponent has complied with all the requirements of the
EIS System and has committed to implement its approved Environmental Management
Plan. The ECC contains specific measures and conditions that the project proponent
has to undertake before and during the operation of a project, and in some cases, during
the project's abandonment phase to mitigate identified environmental impacts.
d. Environmentally Critical Area (ECA) - area delineated as environmentally sensitive
such that significant environmental impacts are expected if certain types of proposed
projects or programs are located, developed or implemented in it.
e. Environmentally Critical Project (ECP) - project or program that has high potential for
significant negative environmental impact.
f. Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) - a document prepared and submitted by the
project proponent and/or Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Consultant that serves
as an application for an ECC. It is a comprehensive study of the significant impacts of a
project on the environment.
g. Environmental Management Plan (EMP) - a section in the IEE or EIS that details the
prevention, mitigation, compensation, contingency and monitoring measures to enhance
positive impacts and minimize negative impacts and risks of a proposed project or
undertaking. A separate EMP may also be submitted by the project proponent to the
DFIMDP in lieu of a CNC.
h. Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) Report or Study - document similar to an
EIS but with reduced details and depth of assessment and discussion.
i. IEE Checklist- simplified checklist version of an IEE Report, prescribed by the DENR,
to be filled up by the project proponent to identify and assess a project's environment
impacts and the mitigation/enhancement measures to address such impacts;
j. Integrated Pest Management - a diverse mix of approaches to manage pests and
keep them below damaging levels, using control options that range from cultural
practices, biological to chemicals. In practice, IPM ranges from chemically based
systems that involve the targeted and judicious use of synthetic pesticides, to biologically
intensive approaches that manage pests primarily or fully through non-chemical means.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   2
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
k. Multipartite Monitoring Team (MMT) - community-based multi-sectoral team organized
for the purpose of monitoring the proponent's compliance with ECC conditions, EMP and
applicable laws, rules and regulations.
1. Pest Management Plan - localized strategy to alert the DA on the potential chemical
hazards from unguarded use of synthetic agricultural chemical inputs in the sub-project's
influence area and address this through sustained information dissemination, technical
assistance and monitoring.
m. Sub-project - any activity, regardless of scale or magnitude, which may have significant
impact on the environment.
n. Proponent - any natural or juridical person intending to implement a project or sub-
project. For purposes of these guidelines, a proponent may include the DA, DFIMDP or
any of its implementing partners such as Local Government Units (LGUs), DA Regional
Field Units (RFUs), among others.
2.2 Scope and Coverage
The scope and coverage of DA projects including subprojects eligible for funding under the
DFIMDP, under the Philippine EIS System and the project criteria or thresholds for the
required application of environmental clearances are defined in Annex 1 of these guidelines.
Non-coverage within the Philippine EIS System means that proponents are no longer
expected to go through the process outlined in the DENR's AO No. 2003-30 which provides
the Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations for the Philippine EIS System, i.e., a
Certificate of Non-Coverage (CNC) does not have to be secured from the DENR.
On the other hand, covered subprojects such as the declared Environmentally Critical
Projects (ECPs) and projects located in Environmentally Critical Areas (ECAs) can be
required an IEE checklist at the minimum or a full-blown Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) at the maximum. DENR's AO 2003-30 shall be used as basis for the regulatory
process which proponents shall follow in the preparation of the documentary requirements
and in the acquisition of the ECC to be issued either by the EMB Central Office of the
respective EMB Regional Offices.
All sub-projects where the influence area shows high usage of hazardous chemicals (per
World Health Organization guidelines) or where incidents of toxic residue levels in fresh
fruits and vegetables were reported in the last two years, the LGU will have to prepare a pest
management plan (See Section 5 for details).
3 Procedures for Review, Processing and Issuance of
Environmental Clearance
3.1 For Non-covered Sub-projects
1.    For non-covered sub-projects, the proponent shall prepare and submit to the
DA Regional Field Units (RFUs), an acceptable Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) in lieu of a CNC. If the proponent is not the LGU, the EMP should
be endorsed by the LGU and thereafter submitted to DA as an attachment to
the sub-project proposal or feasibility study. The proponent shall include
relevant commitments/measures in the EMP in the sub-project's Program of
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    3
Environmentol Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmentol Fromework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
Works (POW).   The pro-forma EMPs for farm-to-market road is attached as
Annex 5 and pro-forma for multi-purpose buildings is attached as Annex 6..
2.    The EMP shall be reviewed and approved by the RFU Project Appraisal
Committee in accordance with the project appraisal criteria for DFIMDP
subprojects adopted by the region. The EMP will be referred to the designated
Environment Focal Person of the RFU who will also be a member of the RFU
Project Appraisal Committee.
3.    Applicable measures in the EMP shall also be included in the technical
specifications in the contract for the implementation by the contractor of the
sub-project. The contractor shall be held legally liable by its client (i.e., the
sub-project proponent) for its compliance and non-compliance to the conditions
of the contract with regard to the EMP conditions. On the other hand, the
proponent shall be directly liable to the DA RFU for its compliance and non-
compliance to the EMP conditions.
3.2 For Covered Sub-projects
1.    For sub-projects that are covered by the EIS System, the proponent shall be
required to secure an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) from the
concerned EMB Regional Office.   To determine the appropriate ECC
application (i.e., whether IEE Checklist or IEE Study or Report), the proponent
should consult with the DENR EMB and check the subproject's specifications
against the DENR threshold.
2.   If an lEE Checklist is required, the proponent shall submit the following to the
EMB:
a. Accomplished IEE Checklist Form per sub-project. (An IEE Checklist Form for
Irrigation is attached as Annex 3 and an IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market
Roads is attached as Annex 4);
b. Zoning clearance;
c. Barangay or municipal endorsement of the proposed project;
d. Tree inventory;
e. Project plan and profile (from detailed engineering);
f. Photographs (showing start and end points and selected sections);
g. Detailed location map of the impacted site showing relevant features (e.g., slope,
topography, human settlements);
h. Notarized accountability statement signed by the proponent; and
i. Payment of a processing fee of P3,000 per sub-project.
3.   If an IEE Study or ReDort is required, the proponent shall submit the following to
the EMB:
a. Brief description of the sub-project or undertaking and its process of operation;
b. Brief description of the environmental setting and receiving environment,
including the primary and secondary impact areas;
c. Brief description of the environmental impact of the project or undertaking,
including its socio-economic impact;
d. Matrix of mitigation and enhancement measures;
e. Documentation of the consultative process undertaken, when appropriate;
f. Brief description of indigenous people's concerns and possible socio-economic,
political and cultural impacts of the proposed project or undertakings on such
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   4
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
people for projects or undertakings located in ancestral lands or domains of
indigenous communities;
g. Brief discussion of gender issues for projects or undertakings with significant
impact on women;
h. Brief discussion of the relationship among population, development, and the
environment for projects or undertakings with significant impact on population;
i. Notarized Accountability statement of preparer and proponent; and.
j. Payment of a processing fee of P3,000.00
4.    The proponent should submit the above documentary requirements together with
an application for an ECC directly to the EMB.
5.    The concerned EMB Regional Office shall review and process the applications
and issue the necessary clearance. As prescribed under the DENR AO 2003-30,
processing time for each ECC application shall be 30 working days.  If no
decision is made within the specified timeframe, the ECC application is deemed
automatically approved and the approving authority (EMB Regional Director) shall
issue the ECC within five (5) working days after the prescribed processing time
has lapsed. However, the EMB may deny the issuance of the ECC if the
proponent fails to submit required additional information critical to deciding on the
ECC application, despite written requests from the EMB and despite an adequate
period for the proponent to comply with the said requirement.
6.    Upon the issuance of the ECC, the proponent shall submit the ECC together with
a copy of the ECC application (i.e., IEE Checklist or IEE Report) and the sub-
project feasibility study or Project Summary to the DFIMDP-DA RFU.
7.    The sub-project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which forms part of
the IEE Checklist or IEE Report, shall be included in the sub-project's Program of
Works (POW). Applicable measures in the EMP and ECC conditions shall also
be included in the technical specifications of the contract for the implementation
of the sub-project. The contractor shall be held legally liable for any variation or
non-compliance with the conditions of the contract with regard to the EMP and
ECC conditions. On the other hand, the proponent shall be directly liable to the
DFIMDP-DA RFU for its compliance and non-compliance to the EMP/ECC
conditions.
4 Requirements for Monitoring and Evaluation of Environmental
Safeguards for DFIMDP Sub-projects
4.1 For Non-covered Sub-projects
1.    During construction of the sub-project, the Project Manager designated or
appointed by the LGU, or the Municipal Engineer or the Municipal Development
Planning Officer (MPDO) of the LGU will ensure that relevant measures in the
EMP are incorporated into the contract. He/she will also monitor the
implementation of mitigation measures prescribed in the EMP and in the
contract.
2.    At the end of project construction, the LGU will submit an EMP Compliance
Report to the DA Project Appraisal Committee as part of the subproject's
completion report. The Environment Focal Person of the RFU will provide
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   5
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmentol Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
technical inputs in the evaluation of the proponent's compliance with
commitments made under the EMP.
3.    The DA RFU shall review the completion reports and conduct site inspections
to validate any observation and action taken by the proponent and contractor
on commitments under the EMP. The RFU may issue appropriate sanctions
for non-compliance until major non-conformances have been accordingly acted
upon to remove any grave and immediate threat to public health or the
environment.
4.    The RFU may request the EMB to join the field visit to validate the completion
report. If the RFU will alert the LGU on any deviations or deficiencies in the
project so these can be acted upon by the contractor before turn-over of the
completed project.
5.    The EMB may conduct separate field validation visits of any or all DFIMDP
sub-projects in close coordination with the DA-RFU.
6.    An environmental audit may be conducted by the World Bank for selected sub-
projects.
4.2 For Covered Sub-projects
4.2.1 For Sub-projects with no Multipartite Monitoring Team (MMT)
Requirement in the ECC Issued (IEE Checklists/some 1EEs)
1.    During sub-project implementation, the Project implementor (e.g. LGU) shall
monitor the performance of the contractor to ensure compliance with agreed
mitigation measures and other environmental activities relevant to
commitments in the ECC, EMP and other environmental safeguard policies.
2.    The proponent shall submit a status report on the EMP and ECC Compliance
Checklist to the DA RFU upon completion of sub-project construction.
3.    The Environment Focal Person of the RFU shall review the EMP Checklist
and, conduct site inspections to validate any observation and action taken
mitigation measures and other related activities under the approved EMP.
4.    The proponent shall submit reports to the EMB, if required in its ECC. The
EMB may conduct separate monitoring/field validation of specific sub-
projects.
5.    An environmental audit may be conducted by the World Bank for selected
sub-projects.
5 Pest Management Plan
Pest problems will be addressed by the Project through the following means: (1) making
IPM as one of the priority programs of DA and (2) the need to forge strong ties and/or
collaboration with non-government organizations (NGOs) who are engaged in organic
farming and rural health matters.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    6
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
The LGU, through its Municipal Agricultural Office (MAO), will be responsible for the
formulation, dissemination, enforcement and monitoring of a local pest management plan,
particularly for areas where the use of hazardous chemicals is a prevalent practice or where
there have been findings of toxic chemical residues in fresh fruits and vegetables within the
past two years. The DA RFU will provide technical assistance to the LGUs in activities
related to the IPM implementation. The table below suggests some elements of a local pest
management plan to serve as guide to the LGUs and RFUs. These are not to be used as
standards, as focus areas differ from each other. This can be modified to suit the conditions
pertaining to the areas. It enumerates the proposed major activities to be undertaken,
responsible unit, resources needed and the time frame.
IPM implementation can only be achieved through participation and collaboration by all
government organizations (GOs), Grower's Associations, and non-government organizations
(NGOs) who are strong advocates and implementers of IPM.
Before plan formulation, it is suggested that the Municipal Agricultural Officer conduct a
comprehensive assessment/evaluation on IPM implementation in the influence area of the
subproject. It should include the following:
1. Common pests and diseases experienced by farms in the area
2. Pest management practices that are prevalent in the area
3. Commonly used agricultural chemical inputs, their brands, active ingredients,
level of environmental hazard, and the level of usage
It should also make an institutional assessment of existing arrangements that are in support
of [PM implementation in the area.  This would include the following (1) existing
organizational structure and institutional arrangement on IPM implementation; (2) knowledge
and skills of the LGU and other local agencies involved in IPM implementation; (3) staff
capacity to implement, corresponding trainings and capability building programs must be
prepared and conducted to enhance staff knowledge and skills; (4) role clarification and
delineation of functions among key players in IPM implementation.
Participatory planning workshops for IPM will serve as an educational activity to inform the
farmers of the environmental hazards posed by some practices observed in the farms to
control the spread of pests in the area. The activity will aim to elicit the commitment of
farmers in the area to reduce their application of chemical inputs with hazardous ingredients
and shift to biological and other environmentally sound methods of pest control. The farmers
will be engaged in a planning activity to draw from them a doable action plan that will
establish targets for IPM expansion through their support and collaboration.
IPM application should be continuously monitored by the DA RFU as part of its regular
activities. At the national level the promotion of IPM will be revived as the DA mounts efforts
to improve its capacity for product standards regulation and monitoring. The local pest
management plan serves as a local guide to alert the DA and the LGU on the hazards that
should be regulated in the farms within the subproject's influence area.
Suggested Elements of a Local Pest Management Plan
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   7
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Environmental Framework and Guidelines for Proposed Sub-Projects
ACTIVITY          RESPONSIBLE           TIME FRAME*/         RESOURCES
AGENCY/lES                                   NEEDED
Assessment of IPM    Municipal Agriculture  During the environmental  Technical
implementation;      Officer (MAO)       assessment or? during  assistance from
Documentation of                         subproject formulation  the DA-RFU
Survey Findings
IPM Participatory    LGU (MAO), with     Before subproject starts,  Report on the
Planning Workshops;  assistance from RFU  there must be organized  Assessment of
Formation of farmers                     groups who will take   IPM
group/s                                  charge of IPM program   Implementation in
implementation.        the area
Formulation of IPM   LGU (MAO)           Upon start of subproject  Documentation
Strategy and Action                                             support for the
Plan for the Area                                               IPM Strategy and
Action Plan
Information          LGU (MAO)           Upon start of subproject  Reproduction of
Dissemination;                                                  IPM strategy and
Awareness Building                                              action plan for
and Promotion of IPM                                            dissemination
Monitoring of IPM    RFU                 After subproject       Operating costs for
application                              completion             field visits and
product testing
Cross-farm visits and  LGU, RFU and      After IPM program       Farmer training
study tours for      proponents (farmers)  orientation          and extension
farmers in the                                                   resources
different focus areas
Continuing Education  LGU, RFU, Rural    After IPM program       Farmer training
of Farmers on Pest   Health Unit (DOH)   orientation            and extension
Management: Safe                                                resources
Use of Pesticides
Collaboration w/     RFU                 During project inception  Support for
NGOs & other local                       and throughout         consultation
groups                                   implementation          meetings and
I _____________I_____   I_____________________ _   w o rkshops
V - Time frame must be specified in the preparation of IPM Plan of each focus area.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                             8
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



ANNEX 1
Scope and Coverage of DFIMDP Projects under the Phil. EIS System
SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE EIS SYSTEM FOR DFIMDP SUBPROJECTS
NOT           IEE
SPECIFICATIONS                      COVERED      CHECKLIST    IEE STUDY     EIS (Region)   EIS (Central)
I. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS                         _             ____I__
1. ROADS AND BRIDGES
1.1 Farm-to-Market Road
a. New Construction
a.1 =< 50.00 meters
a.2 > 50.00 meters, =<80.00 meters                                                          -
a.3 > 80.00 meters, =c150.00 meters
a.4 > 150.00 meters, <500.00 meters                                    l
a.5 500.00 meters and above
b. RehabilitationlImprovement
b.1 Width increase of =< 50% acquisition of right of wa
b.2 Width increase of > 50% acquisition of right of wa,
b.3 Without right of way acquisition                                    .
c. Bridge Construction
a.1 =< 50.00 meters                                        _
a.2 > 50.00 meters, =<80.00 meters
a.3 > 80.00 meters, =< 1h50.00 meters
a.4 > 150.00 meters, <500.00 meters
a.5 500.00 meters and above
2. IRRIGATIONll
2.2 Communal Irrigation Systems/Projects (CIS/CIP and Drip) Irrigation)
a. Service area =< 300 hectares                     _
b. Service area > 300 hectares, =< 700 hectares
c. Service area > 700 hectares, =< 1,000 hectares
d.1 Service area> 1,000 hectares
Note:
Y If the road has a bridge component, the total length of the road and the bridge will be considered.
**/ Critical slope = is equal to 50% slope or 26.570 angle.
DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelines I



ANNEX 1
Scope and Coverage of DFIMDP Projects under the Phil. EIS System
SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE EIS SYSTEM FOR DFUDP SUBPROJECTS
SPECIFICATIONS                         COVERED       CHECKLIST      IEE STUDY      EIS (Region)    EIS (Central)
II. AGRO-INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1. Pre-cooling/Cold Storage/Cold Chain
a. <300 sq.m.__
b. 300 sq.m. - 10 hectares
c. >10 hectares - <25 hectares
d. =>25 hectares
2. Grains Center                                                                                 l                l     _l
a. <300 sq.m.                                                            _
b. 300 sq.m. -10 hectares
c. >10 hectares -<25 hectares
d. =>25 hectares
3. CMlectionuCenter/RefrigeratedFVanfor/HighValue Crops
a. <300 sq.m.
b. 300 sq.m. -10 hectares                                                       _
c. >10_hectares_-_<25 hectares
d. =>25 hectares
4. AAM-Construction of Slaughter Hotuse 
a. <300 sa.m. 
b. 300 sq.m. - 10 hectares
c. >10Ahectares - <25Ghectares
d. =>25 hectares
5. Mufti-Purpose Nursery(Fruits/Timber/Herbal/Foraga/Ornarmental)
a. <300 sq.m.
b. 300 sq.m. - 10 hectaes
c. >10 hectares -<25 hectaes_
d. =>25 hectares
Environmelntal Assessmelnt Frameowork and Gukinelns 2



ANNEX 1
Scope and Coverage of DFIMDP Projects under the Phil. EIS System
SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE EIS SYSTEM FOR DFIMDP SUBPROJECTS
NOT            IEE
SPECIFICATIONS                         COVERED      CHECKLIST      IEE STUDY      EIS (Region)    EIS (Central)
6. Centralized Collecton Center
a. <300 sq.m.
b. 300 sq.m. -10 hectares                                                      _
c. >10 hectares - <25 hectares                                   1
d. l=>25 hectares
7. Bagsakan Center                                                                              _    _|
a. <300 sq.m.                                                                  l
b. 300 sq.m. -10 hectares
c. >10 hectares - <25 hectares                                                  _              _               _
d. =>25 hectares
___Constuction f Artifcial IneminatinCente                                      I_
a. <300 sq.m._
b. 300 sq.m. - 10 hectares
c. >10 hectares - <25 hectares
d. =>25 hectares
10. Solar Drier
a. <300 sq.m.
b. 300 sq.m. - 10 hectares
c. >10 hectares -<25 hectares
d. =>25 hectares
DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelines 3



ANNEX 2
Process Flow Chart
FLOW DIAGRAM OF THE REVIEW, PROCESSING AND ISSUANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCES
FOR DFIMDP SUB-PROJECTS
1. INDIVIDUAL SUB-PROJECT APPLICATION
Sub-project Type/              PROPONENT                     Project Appraisal             DFIMDP AnDroval               EMB Regional          EMB Central
Phase of Implementation (LGU, Grower Association)                   Committee                      Committee                      Office               Office
7          ~~For LGU subprojects, DA Environment Focal Person will determine            COVE RE D
if sub-project is covered or not covered under the Phil EIS System.B
For proposals from growers associations, EIA documents will be subminted to the LGU 
for endorsement, and then submited to the DA RFU
A. For non-covered SPs                           NOT COVERED
Preparation, Appraisal         EpwwS"mvidewpI                       Review EMP FS
and Approval Phase:            BEW mea_su     du m hI                and DE If ok
Environment Management              FS Md POW:                      refer EMP to
Plan Formulation & Review        Sb*tEWMPgeLw                     Envi Focal Person
Envi Focal Person vatidates
EMP aganst EIS
futUdelines
Include EMP measures
and costs in technical specs                                         or sub-prolect
of the contract, if necessary
Construction Phase:
EMP Monitoring
Monitor performance of
contractor with respect to
EMP mfitgation measures
Project Completion:
EMP Compliance ChecWllst         _        1                          _ -
Issues certification of
-                 _          ~      project completion                    Field validation of
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~selected SPs
Operations and
Maintenance Phase                Monitoring of EMP commitments shall be undertaken by DA RFU as part of its regufar functions
Note: Environment Focal Person is so designated by the DA RFU Director from among the RFU staff who will also be a member of the Project Appraisal Committee
DFIMDP
Environmental Assessment Framesork and Guidelines I



ANNEX 2
Process Flow Chart
B. For Covered SPs                  PROPONENT                     Project Appraisal              DFIMDP ADoroval                EMB Regional          EMB Central
(LGU, Grower Association)               Committee                      Committee                       Office               Office
Preparation, Appraisal
and Approval Phase
Prepare appropriate ECC
application, i.e., IEE Checklist,
IEE Report/Study, EIS
Reviews LGU ECC                                                 Review and process
application; No application                                       ECC application
will be endorsed unless                                     >    o 3  Ar
required ECC documenrts
are comrplete                                                    May reques propo-
nent tor addli re mts
- Incorporate EMP measures      '   IiiiiS (id    ikl              Review FS and POW
and costs (contained in ECC      '    o) utd POW. 11*,             Returm to proponent
application) in FS POW     _       &= to DA FtfJ                      i there are
corrections.
Include EMP measures                                             Review and approval
and costs in technical                                        F    of sub-project
specificata ns for contractpr
Construction Phase
Project Completion              SLbmit project completion          Revew EOC & EMP                    Review EMP
wih EMP Compi arce             coalance cheiist ard             compliance checklist
Checidist to DA-RFU                   endorse to DA RFU
-E.inEw  ....                                                                                            .      ......l  ni i  w
_E~C           Cx*t@S!sl _  *CC                                _                                                    _           __ 
Operations and
Maintenance Phase
Note Environment Focal Person is so designated by the DA RFU Director from among the RFU staff who will also be a member of the Project Appraisal Committee
1/ EMP conditions are contained in the ECC application
*FIMDP
-nvironmental Assessment Framework and Guidelines 2



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
1     INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
The Philippine Environmental Impact Statement System was formally established by virtue
of Presidential Decree 1586. It requires the submission of Environmental Impact Statements
(EIS) for environmentally critical projects and Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for
projects which are located in environmentally critically areas as provided in its Implementing
Rules and Regulations (IRR) and Presidential Proclamation No. 2146, series of 1981.
In 1996 DENR issued Department Administrative Order 37 (DAO 96-37) to further
strengthen the EIS System. DAO 96-37 Article l1l, Section 9.0 (Contents of the EIS) provides
that "Some or all of the foregoing items may, when appropriate, be presented in a format
using the checklist approach."
Pursuant to DAO 96-37, Memorandum Circular Number 4, Series of 1998 was issued by the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) to simplify the system. MC 98-4 (Annex 1)
defined the lEE Checklist as a simplified form in lieu of the standard EIS document. It
provides a list of projects with IEE checklists, the format and contents of the IEE Checklist
and implementing guidelines.
To further assist development of projects in ECAs while ensuring that environmental
requirements are incorporated in project development, MC 3 Series of 2001 (Annex 2) by
EMB presents an additional list of projects with IEE Checklists and refines the implementing
guidelines for the preparation and submission of IEE Checklists.
1.2       Contents of this Guide
This guide is produced to aid the proponent in preparing and submitting an IEE Checklist to
secure an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) for a project located in ECAs.
This guide contains the following:
Part II     Scope and Coverage of the IEE Checklist for Selected Irrigation
Projects
Part III    Instructions for the Preparation and Submission of the IEE Checklist
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    1
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Part IV     IEE Checklist Form
Part V       Annexes:
A.    Definition of Terms of IEE Checklist for Selected Irrigation
Projects
A.    EMB Regional Offices Directory
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    2
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
2 SCOPE AND COVERAGE
This section defines the scope and limitations to be covered and affected by this lEE
checklist. Such that projects with greater and/or lower than the defined scope, the proponent
shall be required to submit an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) or an Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) document or secure a Certificate of Non-Coverage (CNC).
The accompanying IEE Checklist is applicable only for irrigation system with service area in
excess of 300 hectares but less than or equal to 700 hectares without any impounding
structures
3     INSTRUCTIONS             ON      THE      PREPARATION             AND
SUBMISSION OF THE IEE CHECKLIST
This section guides the project proponent on how to fill-up and answer the various questions
and information stated in the checklist. This section also informs the project proponent on
permit requirements that need to be attached to the Checklist. Likewise, it directs the
proponent where to submit the IEE Checklist and apply for an ECC, and the system and
timeframe for DENR processing.
3.1 Contents of the IEE Checklist
The IEE Checklist is a simplified form designed to assist proponents' of selected projects in
complying with the EIS system. The IEE Checklist, to be accomplished and submitted before
undertaking a project, consists of a series of questions that deals with issues and concerns
about the proposed project and its environment. The questions will also provide the
proponents with information on environmental impacts, both positive and negative, which will
be caused by the proposed project. The IEE Checklist has to be submitted by all government
and private sector proponents applying for an ECC covering the abovementioned projects.
The information contained herein will serve as basis for EMB to make decision on the
application for ECC.
The IEE Checklist is divided into five (5) major sections:
*  Section 1:   Required Information - consist of the attachments required to be
submitted as part of the IEE Checklist;
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                       3
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
* Section 2: General Information - presents the project title, name and address
of the project proponent, proponent's contact person and the location of the
project;
* Section 3:Project Description- presents the plan/design components and
activities during the construction and operation phases of the project;
*  Section 4:  Description of Project Surroundings - describes the existing
physical, biological and socio-economic conditions where the project will be
located;
.  Section 5:   Predicted and Assessed Impacts and Proposed Mitigation
Measures - describes the possible impacts that are likely to occur in various
stages of the project development and  the corresponding mitigation and
enhancement measures to prevent and/or minimize the occurrence of adverse
impacts and strengthen the positive effects of the project.
3.2   Instructions on the Preparation of the IEE Checklist
1. For the Section 1:Required Information, write a check mark  (4) on the title or
description of the document to be submitted. The listed documents are MUST
requirements and should be submitted. Otherwise, the application will not be
accepted.
2. The IEE Checklist can be prepared by the proponent or any of his/her authorized
representative per EMB Memorandum Circular No. 04j, Series of 1998 (17 August
1998). The proponent's signature in the report shall be sufficient. The proponent may
seek the help of the DENR personnel by clarifying questions in the IEE Checklist.
3. To use the Checklist, the proponent may put a check (4) mark in the appropriate box.
If your answer does not fall in any of the pre-determined responses, check (4)
OTHERS and indicate your specific answer in the blank space provided or use
additional sheets as necessary. If some questions are not applicable to your project,
write N/A on the blank space or column.
4. To facilitate and assist the proponent in answering Section 5.0 of this checklist, a
menu is provided to serve as guide and reference. However, it should be noted that
this only serves as a menu checklist hence, the proponent is highly encouraged to
identify additional impacts and mitigation/enhancement measures other than those
provided.
The proponent may put a check (4) to the columns of Y or N on the pre-determined
and identified Mitigation/Enhancement measures column. The proponent may
choose the mitigating measures appropriate to the impacts identified for the
proposed project. He/She may write clarificatory words/phrases in the column of
REMARKS.
5. Answers to the questions are not be strictly confined to the pre-determined
responses. The proponent may elaborate and use as many additional sheets as
needed to be able to provide adequate answers to the required information. Maps,
pictures, drawings (e.g. charts, tables, diagrams, sketches) and other visual aids are
deemed to provide better description of the information provided in the Checklist.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     4
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFINMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
These will help EMB in understanding the proposed project, and make decision on
the application for ECC.
3.3   Instructions on the Submission of the IEE Checklist
1. Upon completion of the IEE checklist, the project proponent shall submit one (1) set
of the Checklist at the EIA Section of the EMB Regional Office where the project is to
be located. A duly accomplished Procedural Screening Form shall accompany the
IEE Checklist submission.
2. Upon the presentation/submission of the Checklist, the Screening Officer shall
immediately determine its completeness and conformance with the DENR prescribed
requirements. Immediate determination shall mean completion of the Procedural
Review within the same day of IEE checklist submission.
3. The Screening Officer shall indicate, through a check/tick mark under the Yes, No or
Not Applicable column, the presence or absence of a particular information required.
4. The determination of the completeness of the IEE Checklist will be based on the
sufficiency of responses to all questions or checklist and information provided in the
matrix.
5. If the IEE Checklist is complete, it will be formally accepted. The proponent will be
furnished a copy of the accomplished procedural form duly signed by the Screening
Officer.
6. If the Checklist is incomplete, it shall be immediately returned to the proponent for
revision or submission of the missing requirement/information. The reason for non-
acceptance shall be stated in writing at the appropriate place in the form.
7. If the lEE Checklist has complied with all the DENR prescribed requirements, the
proponent shall submit 3 copies of the documents to EIA Section of the concerned
EMB Regional Office.
The proponent shall pay the amount of P3,000.00 at the Cashier Section of
concerned EMB Regional Office upon submitting the required number of copies at
the Record Section of the same office.
8. All IEE Checklist not following the said standard procedures shall not be considered
as valid applications and therefore, shall not be used as a basis for recommendation
on the issuance or denial of the ECC.
9. The project proponent or his duly recognized representative shall be the one who will
follow-up the said application to the respective EMB Regional Office. The processing
time including the issuance and/or denial of the ECC will take a maximum of 30 days.
10. The EIA Section of EMB Regional Office, in the course of substantial review, may
conduct site visit or ocular inspection in coordination with the project proponent.
11. If the EMB finds that the IEE Checklist has substantially addressed all the significant
impacts and relevant issues by way of mitigation and enhancement measures, it shall
recommend the issuance of the ECC. The EMB Regional Office may call for a
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    5
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
technical conference to explain to the project proponent the relevance of the ECC
and the various conditions stated therein for compliance by the project proponent.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   6
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
IEE Checklist Form for Irrigation Projects
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION (IEE) CHECKLIST
FORM FOR IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Section 1.  REQUIRED INFORMATION
This section presents the various information required to be submitted by the project
proponent as attachments to the IEE Checklist, without which the application for ECC will not
be accepted.
Attachments                                           Remarks
1. Location map/scale map a 1:50,000 topographic map
indicating project site (service area, diversion canal, service
canals, head gates, etc.) and significant landmarks
2. Documents related to ownership or possession of project
site (i.e. deeds of donation or ROW)
3. Technical design, plans and other related documents to
describe fully the project including an inventory of all project
components (e.g. head gates, check gates, turnouts,
division box, flumes, end checks, etc.)
4. Proposed schedules of activities (construction stage, etc.)
5. Attach photographs shall include panoramic shots of the
proposed service area especially the proposed locations of
canals and other components, water bodies near the
project site, residential or built-up areas,etc.
6. Inventory of trees with commercial value duly certified by
the CENRO
7. Proposed schedules of activities (construction phase)
8. Barangay Resolution endorsing the Project/Municipal/City
Council Resolution endorsing the Project/minutes of public
consultation
9. Oath of Undertaking specifically focused on the
compensation of the affected stakeholders
10. Accountability Statement of Project Proponent (s)
11. Receipt of the Processing Fee (worth Php 3,000.00)
SECTION 2.     GENERAL INFORMATION
2.1   Project Title
2.2   Project Location
(complete address, barangaylstreet/sitiol
municipality/city, province)
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
2.3   Proponent
Contact Person
Address
Tel/Fax #
E-mail
2.4   Project Ownership
Type of Ownership:
[  Single Proprietorship    [  ] Partnership or Joint Venture
[  Corporation              [ ] Cooperatives
Others
SECTION 3. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Project Description/Objectives:
3.2   Project Cost
Total Project Cost:
Mode of Project Financing:
Self-Financed             [  ] Bank Loan
Gov't. Financing    [  ] Others
3.3   Land Ownership
Total Land Area (sq. meters or has.):_
Total Floor Area (sq. meters or has):
General Land Classification:   [ ] Public Land [  ]A & D
Status of Land Ownership:
[ ] owned/title by virtue of:
OCT or TCT #
CLT/Emancipation               Patent      No.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     8
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Free Patent No.
Homestead Patent No.
Owned/untitled (tax declaration)_
[  stewardship contract:
[  lease: Lease Contract No.
others, pls. specify:
3.4   Project Location
How do you describe the general location of the project site?
Developed Area (within a built-up-area with presence of utility systems or
network, especially water supply, roads and power supply)
Underdevelopment Area (relatively far from the urban center with
predominant absence of utility system)
3.5  Land Use Classification (base on approval land use plan of the city or
municipality)
] Public        Pls. Specify:
]A&D
3.6   Zoning Classification
3.7   Project Components
Description/        Location       Number       Dimension/Capacity
Name            (indicate In    of Units       (Indicate Unit Of
Map)                          Measures)
Diversion Structure
(E.G., Dam, Weir, Etc.)
Diversion canal/s
Service canal/s
Canal structure/s
Head gate/s
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Description/       Location       Number      Dimension/Capacity
Name            (Indicate In   of Units      (Indicate Unit Of
Map)                         Measures)
Check gate/s
Turnout
Division box
Off-takes
End Check
3.8   Utilities and Infrastructures
Water Supply
* Demand
Estimated daily water requirement:       cu.m.
* Supply
Water supply source:
Power Supply
Source of power supply:
] Local Electric Cooperation:
] Own Generator    Capacity (HP)
I Others, pis. specify
3. 9 Manpower and Employment
How many people will be employed by the project?
During the pre-construction/construction period:
During the operation and maintenance period:
3.10 Construction Schedule
How long will the pre-construction/construction period take?
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   10
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Attach panoramic view of the project site and its immediate vicinity
SECTION 4. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT SURROUNDINGS
4.1 Physical Environment
Components/Parameters                          Answers    Remarks
Yes  No
What is the general elevation of the project area?        (indicate the area per
elevation range or
< 100 masl                                                estimate the % to total
100-300 masl                                              area)
301-500 masl
501-1,000 masl
1001-1500 masl
>1,500 masl
(To determine elevation, refer to the topographic map
where the elevation per contour line is indicated)
Slope and topography of the area                          (indicating the area
per slope category or
Terrain is flat or level (0-3% slope)?                    estimate the % to total
Gently sloping to undulating (3-8% slope)?                area)
Undulating to rolling (8-1830% slope)?
Rolling to moderately steep (18-30% slope)?
Steeply sloping (30-50% slope)?
Very steep to mountainous (>50% slope)?
Are there areas in the site where indications of soil     Causes of erosion:
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Components/Parameters                          Answers    Remarks
Yes  No
erosion are occurring? If yes, what activities are
causing erosion?                                          [ ] heavy rains
I unstable slopes
]others, pls.
specify
Do you know of any landsliding occurring or that has      Causes of landslide:
occurred in the site?
[  earthquake
[  unstable slopes
]earthmoving
[  others, pls.
Specify
Has the area experienced any flooding during the wet      Period(s) of flooding:
season or typhoons? If yes, when was the last time the
area was flooded? What caused the flooding?
Causes of flooding:
low area/elevation
poor drainage
[  water logged
area
Soil type of the area:                                    Other soil types:
]sandy soil
clayey soil
sandy loam soil
Is there an access road going to the project site?        Type of access road:
If yes, what is its distance to the site  km
Does the site conform to the approved land use plan of
the city/municipality?
Are there existing structures or developments around
the project site? If yes, please list them in the space
below or in the opposite space.
What is the present land use of the area?
] Prime Agriculture Land     [ ] Orchard
]Grassland                   [ ] Marshland/Mangrove
] Built-up                   [ ] Fishpond
]Others, pis. specify
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    12
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
4.2   Biological Environment
Components/Parameters                Answers        Remarks
Yes I No
Are there existing trees and other types of vegetation in
the site? If yes, please provide examples.
Are there birds and other forms of wildlife found in the
area?
Is the site near or within a watershed or forest
reservation area?
If near only, how near?       m or km
If within, indicate name of the watershed or forest
reservation area.
If answer is yes to the above answers, please provide examples of these species
(common or local name) in the table provided below.
Birds and Other Wildlife  Trees and Other Important     Fishery Resources
1.______________________         V egetation
2.
3.
4.
5.
4.3   Socio-Economic Environment
Components/Parameters                        Total Number
Are there existing settlements in the project area?
[ ]Yes [ ]No
If yes, how many households or families?
What is the total population of the barangay(s) covered by
the project?
Average family size:
Are there existing social infrastructures in the barangay? [ ] Yes [ ] No
If yes, what are these social infrastructures? (pls. Check)
]schools               [ ] communication (e.g.radio, TV, mail,
newspaper)
health centers/clinics  [ ] churches/chapel
]hospitals             [ ] roads
[  transportation      [ ] others,
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     1 3
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
SECTION 5. PREDICTED AND ASSESSED IMPACTS AND PROPOSED
ENHANCEMENT/ MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1   Pre-Construction/Construction Phase
Predicted and      Answers       Proposed Enhancement/         Remarks
Assessed Impacts                     Mitigating Measures
Yes    No
Increase in noise level           o Schedule equipment move in
to blend with regular non-
peak hour -daytime vehicular
traffic. No night time moving
o  Provide barriers in work areas
expected to use equipment
with high noise power level
Slope modification/               o  Minimize land modification
Ground levelling                    following established design
consideration.
Increased in traffic              o  Rerouting of vehicular traffic
to less congested roads
Affects wildlife or their         o  Plant trees/plants in nearby
habitat                              areas but must not affect the
structure built or its purpose.
o Appropriate warning signs
regarding wildlife
conservation
Decreased public /                o  Provide access to affected
community access to                  establishments and minimize
or through the area                  obstruction to areas
Affects other present             o Coordinate with appropriate
utilities and                        utility firms in relocation of
infrastructures                      their utility lines
Increased economic                o  Implement traffic
activity in the area                 management plan
o  Comply with city ordinance,
build temporary facilities
Displacement or                   o  Proper notification of affected
relocation of                        areas and restore services as
people/community                     quickly as possible and
schedule disruption during
non-peak hours
Li Inform and compensate
affected stakeholders prior to
their relocation
Increased employment              o  Hire as many locals
especially those that will be
displaced
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    1 4
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Predicted and      Answers       Proposed Enhancement/         Remarks
Assessed Impacts                     Mitigating Measures
Yes    No
Impact on indigenous            _    Schedule activities during
communities /                        non-peak hours
vulnerable groups/
women
Increased housing                 o  Provide temporary
requirement for                      bunkhouse on site or rent
transient workers,                   houses in neighboring
project management                   communities if housing
staff                                requirements cannot be
accommodated in the locality
where the project is located
Traverse areas with               o  Report recoveries to the
historical significance              Local Cultural and Historical
Affairs Commission, National
Museum and other institution
interested in the subject
matter, immediately comply
with pertinent laws in the
matter and request
supervision to the proper
authority
Increased hazards on              o  Provide safety equipment and
post-construction                    appropriate warning signs
wastes/debris                        along the route
Li Provide alternative use of the
construction yard/staging
area once the project
demobilizes
o Clear construction debris,
form works and equipment
and removal of all obstruction
o  Minimize construction clutter,
proper management of
construction debris, provide
barrier to hide
5.2   Operation Phase
Predicted And      Answers         Proposed Enhancement)        Remarks
Assessed                           Mitigating Measures
Impacts        Yes     No
Increased flooding               Li Provide adequate drainage and
and clogging of                      direct flow to the nearest
drainage                             oufflow
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   15
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Predicted And      Answers         Proposed Enhancementl        Remarks
Assessed                           Mitigating Measures
Impacts         Yes    No
Increased economic                o  Inevitable. The LGU will have
activities                           the jurisdiction to control
activities in the area
Affect s wildlife or their        o  Plant trees/plants in nearby
habitat                              areas but must not affect the
structure built or its purpose.
o Appropriate warning signs
regarding wildlife conservation
Others
5.3   Abandonment Phase
Project Life or Service:        years
Provide description of the Abandonment activities, such as, dismantling and
waste disposal.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    16
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
ACCOUNTABILITY STATEMENT
This is to certify that all the information and commitments in this Initial Environmental
Examination (IEE) Checklist are accurate and complete. Should we learn of any information
which would make this IEE Checklist inaccurate, I/we shall bring said information to the
attention of the appropriate EMB DENR Regional Office.
We hereby bind ourselves jointly and solidarily to any penalty that may by imposed
arising from any misrepresentation of failure to state material information in this IEE
Checklist.
In witness whereof, we hereby set our hands this    day of          at
Project Proponent
Title or designation
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
BEFORE     ME    this  (day)                 of                 200
at     (place)                         ,personaliy  appeared
name)                           with Community Tax Certificate No. _ _issued
on    date                 at (place)                   , in his/her capacity as
(desicnation               at                     and
acknowledged to me that this IEE Checklist is his voluntary act and deed, and voluntary act
and deed    of the entity he/she  represents.  This document which consists of
(no)                             pages, including the page of   which   this
acknowledgment is written, is an Initial Environmental Examination Checklist.
Witness my hand and seal on the place and date above written.
Notary Public
Doc. No.
Page No.
Book No.
Series of
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    1 7
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
GUIDE ON IEE CHECKLIST FOR SELECTED IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project           18
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
II. SCOPE AND COVERAGE
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project             19
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Ill. INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF THE IEE
CHECKLIST
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project            20
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
IV. IEE CHECKLIST FORM
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project            21
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
V.    ANNEXES
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project             22
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
Annex A
Definition of Terms of IEE Checklist for
Irrigation Projects
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              23
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
DEFINITION OF TERMS
For the purpose of this IEE Checklist and whenever any of the following words and terms are
used herein, shall have the meaning described in this section:
PROJECT NAME                  refers to official name of project
PROJECT LOCATION              refers to location of the project. Proponent should
provide complete physical description of the location of
the project (e.g., diversion canal, service canals,
barangay/sitios affected, etc.) as well as its political
boundaries (e.g., sitio, barangay, town/ municipality,
province, etc.)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION           provide short description of the project (e.g.,
dimensions of diversion and service canals, material of
construction, service areas, etc.)
NAME OF PROPONENT             refers to the ownerof the project (e.g., DPWH, NIA,
name of LGU, etc.). In cases where NIA will undertake
the construction and turnover the completed project to
the roads and bridges association, NIA shall be the
proponent for purposes of ECC/CNC application. The
appropriate DENR/EMB office (which issued the
ECC/CNC) shall be informed of the change in
proponent when the turnover to the association has
been completed.
CONTACT PERSON                refers to person/s who is authorized to transact
business with DENR/EMB on behalf of the Proponent
(e.g., mayor, municipal engineer, project engineer, etc.)
ADDRESS                       refers to official address of proponent and contact
person/s. The address of contact person/s should also
be given if different from that of the proponent.
IIMPLEMENTATION SCHEME        description of how the project will be implemented
(e.g.,
by contractor, by proponent, etc.). If the project is to be
Implemented by entities other than the proponent, the
name/identity of that entity/s should be provided, if
available. Otherwise, the mode of selection should be
described (e.g., by bidding, by negotiation, etc.)
PROJECT COST                  refers to TOTAL project costs expressed in Philippine
Pesos
FUNDING AGENCY/S             refers to mode of financing or source of funds (e.g.,
LGU's budget, NIA, bank loan, etc.). If funding is
provided by outside source, the name of the project or
description of the source and the name of the funding
agencies should be provided (e.g., ARCDP of WB,
bond issued by name of underwriters, loan from DBP,
etc.)
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   24
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
SOURCE OF WATER               refers to source of water for roads and bridges (e.g.,
name of rivers, etc.) and its location
AVERAGE DISCHARGE RATE        refers to actual flow measurements averaged over the
DRY SEASON                     entire dry season expressed in liter per second (e.g.,
stream flow for rivers and creeks)
AVERAGE DSICHARGE RATE        refers to actual stream flow measurements averaged
over
WET SEASON                     the entire wet season expressed in liters per second
(e.g., stream flow for rivers and creeks)
DIVERSION/ABSTRACTION         refers to maximum withdrawal or diversion of water
(used
MAXIMUM                       as design criteria) expressed in liters per second
SERVICE AREA, DESIGN           refers to TOTAL service area used as design criteria
expressed in hectares
DESCRIPTION/NAME               refers to the  name  or description  of project
components. All components of the roads and bridges
systems (including support facilities) should be
included.
LOCATION                       refers to locations or markings used in the map to
indicate position of the component or facility. Indicate
numbers if there is more than one (also see note
below)
DIMENSION/CAPACITY            refers to the dimension   AND   capacity  of the
component.  Units of measurements (e.g., meters,
liters, etc.) should be included.  Components with
different capacities or dimensions should be separately
listed (e.g., division boxes with different dimensions
should be separately listed)
BODIES OF WATER               refers to creeks, rivers, canals, lake, sea, etc.
NATIONAL PARKS, WATERSHED      refers to forested areas, protected areas, areas where
AREAS, SANCTUARIES OR                      endangered/threatened species have
been sighted, etc.
SIMILAR AREAS
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY/S        refers to any indigenous community located within 10
km of the project site. As per definition of RA 8371
(IPRA), an indigenous community refers to a group of
people who have possessed customs, traditions and
other distinctive cultural traits different from that of the
majority of the Filipinos.
VULNERABLE GROUP/S             refers to the elderly, youth, young children, physically
challenged and other such sectors
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    25
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
SITES WITH CULTURAL/
HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE      archaeological sites, churches, burial sites, monuments,
sites of historical battles, etc.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                  26
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- lEE Checklist for Irrigation
Annex B
EMB Regional Offices Directory
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                27
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT BUREAU OFFICIALS DIRECTORY
OFFICE        DIRECTOR         ADDRESS            TEL. NO.      FAX NO.
CENTRAL      JULIAN D.         DENR Cmpd.,        927-15-17
OFFICE       AMADOR            Visayas Ave.,      920-22-38     927-15-18
Diliman, Quezon   920-22-40      920-22-41
City              920-22-43
REGIONAL OFFICES
NCR          SIXTO           E. Congressional     453-88-14     926-09-40
TOLENTINO JR.      Plaza Bldg., # 51 453-87-78
Congressional     926-0934
Ave., Q. C.       926-09-24
loc. 125
REGION 1     JOEL           G. 2nd Floor Lee Bldg., (072) 242-30-57 (72) 242-30-
SALVADOR           Brgy. Lingsat, San    242-35-   12
Fernando,     La 97                  242-26-
Union                  888-38-  86
33                 242-27-
RED 41-29-75   27
REGION 2     LORENZO        C. EMB        Nursery (078) 844-43-21 (078) 846-91-
AGALOOS            Cmpd., San Gabriel    846-28-   29
Villag, Tuguegarao 67                846-32-
City6, Cagayan                  59
REGION 3     LORMELYN       E. Amalgamated       (045) 963-46-47 (045) 963-46-
CLAUDIO            Bldg., Brgy. Balite,  963-46-48  46
San     Fernando,     963-46-54      963-46-
Pampanga              888-09-85  51
963-46-
52
REGION 4 A   ERLINDA        A. 1515   L&S  Bldg., 302-11-83     521-22-53
GONZALES          Roxas Blvd., Ermita 536-00-27    536-97-84
Manila            536-97-67     536-97-86
536-97-84
536-97-86
4 B    WILFREDO A. RINA   1515  L&S  Bldg., 302-11-83     521-22-53
Roxas Blvd., Ermita 536-00-27   536-97-84
Manila            536-97-67     536-97-86
536-97-84
536-97-86
REGION 5     GILBERT        C. Regional   Center (052) 482-01-97 820-50-65
GONZALES          Rawis, Legaspi City    482-03-
26
820-25-
36
REGION 6     ROBEN A. CALVO                       (033) 336-26-57 (033) 337-98-
Pepita Aquino         336-98-01  01
Ave.,Port Area,      336-99-10
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                  28
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 3- IEE Checklist for Irrigation
OFFICE        DIRECTOR          ADDRESS           TEL NO.       FAX NO.
REGION 7     ALLAN C.           Banilad, Mandaue  (032) 345-39-05 (032) 345-39-
ARANGUEZ           City                  346-06-   66
61                  346-16-
346-20-   47
72                  346-22-
346-94-   25
20
0917-479-24-86
REGION 8     ERNESTO G.         DENR Cmpd., Sto.  (053) 325-21-49 (053) 325-21-
MANUEL            Nifo St., Tacloban     325-21-50  49
City                  325-72-68      321-33-
86
REGION 9      MARIO N.          FORI Bldg., DENR  (062) 991-10-76 991-14-24
BULACAN           Lantawan,         0919-403-01-31  991-90-12
Pasonaca,
Zamboanga City
7000
REGION 10     RUTH G. SABIJON   DENR 10 Cmpd.,    (088) 856-93-62 (08822) 726-
Macabalan,        (08822) 762-  280
Cagayan de Oro    243
City
REGION 11     BIENVENIDO L.     Door 2, Flebet's  (082) 233-08-09 233-17-65
LIPAYON           Bldg., Km. 7 Lanag,    233-17-   234-08-11
Davao City        65
200-00-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 4 0
REGION 12     METODIO U.        4th Floor Siyambio  (083) 228-48-47 228-48-45
TURBELLA           Bldg., Roxas St.,               228-48-47
Koronadal, South
Coatabato
REGION 13     REYNALDO R.       Ambago, Butuan    (085) 341-83-74 (085) 815-10-
VILLAFUERTE        City                  342-29-   45
93                  226-45-
00
CAR           FREDRIC G.        DENR Cmpd.,      (074) 442-23-46 444-73-64
VILLANUEVA         Gibraltar, Baguio     443-49-
City              09
444-73-
64
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                  29
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
The Philippine Environmental Impact Statement System was formally established by virtue
of Presidential Decree 1586. It requires the submission of Environmental Impact Statements
(EIS) for environmentally critical projects and Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for
projects which are located in environmentally critically areas as provided in its Implementing
Rules and Regulations (IRR) and Presidential Proclamation No. 2146, series of 1981.
In 1996 DENR issued Department Administrative Order 37 (DAO 96-37) to further
strengthen the EIS System. DAO 96-37 Article 1I1, Section 9.0 (Contents of the EIS) provides
that "Some or all of the foregoing items may, when appropriate, be presented in a format
using the checklist approach."
Pursuant to DAO 96-37, Memorandum Circular Number 4, Series of 1998 was issued by the
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) to simplify the system. MC 98-4 (Annex 1)
defined the IEE Checklist as a simplified form in lieu of the standard EIS document. It
provides a list of projects with IEE checklists, the format and contents of the IEE Checklist
and implementing guidelines.
To further assist development of projects in ECAs while ensuring that environmental
requirements are incorporated in project development, MC 3 Series of 2001 (Annex 2) by
EMB presents an additional list of projects with IEE Checklists and refines the implementing
guidelines for the preparation and submission of IEE Checklists.
1.2      Contents of this Guide
This guide is produced to aid the proponent in preparing and submitting an IEE Checklist to
secure an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) for a project located in ECAs.
This guide contains the following:
Part II     Scope and Coverage of the IEE Checklist for Selected Roads and
Bridges Projects
Part IlIl   Instructions for the Preparation and Submission of the IEE Checklist
Part IV     IEE Checklist Form
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    1
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Part V        Annexes:
A.    Definition of Terms of IEE Checklist for Selected Roads and
Bridges Projects
B.    EMB Regional Offices Directory
2 SCOPE AND COVERAGE
This section defines the scope and limitations to be covered and affected by this IEE
checklist. Such that projects with greater and/or lower than the defined scope, the proponent
shall be required to submit an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) or an Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) document or secure a Certificate of Non-Coverage (CNC).
The accompanying IEE Checklist is applicable onlv for the following roads and bridges
projects:
2.1       Road Network Systems
*  Construction of major/national road network systems with a total length equal to or
less than three (3) kilometers traversing an area of critical slope
*  Construction of major/national road network systems with a total length equal to or
less than 10 km outside critical slope
*  Rehabilitation of existing city and national roads which traverse an Environmentally
Critical Area (ECA), for Presidential Proclamation 2146
*  Major rehabilitation of existing city and/or national road network systems which will
require the acquisition of additional 50% of the original right of way.
2.2      Bridges
*  Rehabilitation/ improvement of bridges with length greater than 50 meters but less
than or equal to 80 meters, with two to four piers and located in an ECA
*  Rehabilitation/ improvement of bridges in which existing width will be increased by
fifty percent resulting to an acquisition of additional right of way
*  Except for fly-over interchange, all proposed fly-over projects regardless of width and
length.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     2
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
3 INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PREPARATION AND
SUBMISSION OF THE IEE CHECKLIST
This section guides the project proponent on how to fill-up and answer the various questions
and information stated in the checklist. This section also informs the project proponent on
permit requirements that need to be attached to the Checklist. Likewise, it directs the
proponent where to submit the IEE Checklist and apply for an ECC, and the system and
timeframe for DENR processing.
3.1   Contents of the IEE Checklist
The IEE Checklist is a simplified form designed to assist proponents' of selected projects in
complying with the EIS system. The IEE Checklist, to be accomplished and submitted before
undertaking a project, consists of a series of questions that deals with issues and concerns
about the proposed project and its environment. The questions will also provide the
proponents with information on environmental impacts, both positive and negative, which will
be caused by the proposed project. The IEE Checklist has to be submitted by all government
and private sector proponents applying for an ECC covering the abovementioned projects.
The information contained herein will serve as basis for EMB to make decision on the
application for ECC.
The IEE Checklist is divided into five (5) major sections:
*  Section 1:  Required Information - consist of the attachments required to be
submitted part of
the IEE Checklist
*  Section 2:  General Information - presents the project title, name and address of
project proponent, proponent's contact person and the location of the project;
*  Section 3     Project Description- presents the plan/design components and
activities during the construction and operation phases of the project;
.  Section 4:   Description of Project Surroundings - describes the existing
physical, biological and socio-economic conditions where the project will be located;
.  Section 5:     Predicted and Assessed Impacts and Proposed Mitigation
Measures describes the possible impacts that are likely to occur in various stages of
the project development and  the corresponding mitigation and enhancement
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     3
Environmentol Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
measures to prevent and/or minimize the occurrence of adverse impacts and
strengthen the positive effects of the project;
3.2   Instructions on the Preparation of the IEE Checklist
1. For the Section 1:Required Information, write a check mark  (4) on the title or
description of the document to be submitted. The listed documents are MUST
requirements and should be submitted. Otherwise, the application will not be
accepted.
2. The IEE Checklist can be prepared by the proponent or any of his/her authorized
representative per EMB Memorandum Circular No. 04, Series of 1998 (17 August
1998). The proponent's signature in the report shall be sufficient. The proponent may
seek the help of the DENR personnel by clarifying questions in the IEE Checklist.
3. To use the Checklist, the proponent may put a check (4) mark in the appropriate
box. If your answer does not fall in any of the pre-determined responses, check (4)
OTHERS and indicate your specific answer in the blank space provided or use
additional sheets as necessary. If some questions are not applicable to your project,
write N/A on the blank space or column.
4. To facilitate and assist the proponent in answering Section 5.0 of this checklist, a
menu is provided to serve as guide and reference. However, it should be noted that
this only serves as a menu checklist hence, the proponent is highly encouraged to
identify additional impacts and mitigation/enhancement measures other than those
provided.
The proponent may put a check (4) to the columns of Y or N on the pre-determined
and identified Mitigation/Enhancement measures column. The proponent may
choose the mitigating measures appropriate to the impacts identified for the
proposed project. He/She may write clarificatory words/phrases in the column of
REMARKS.
5. Answers to the questions are not be strictly confined to the pre-determined
responses. The proponent may elaborate and use as many additional sheets as
needed to be able to provide adequate answers to the required information. Maps,
pictures, drawings (e.g. charts, tables, diagrams, sketches) and other visual aids are
deemed to provide better description of the provided the Checklist. These will help
EMB in understanding the proposed project, and make decision on application for
ECC.
3.3   Instructions on the Submission of the IEE Checklist
1. Upon completion of the IEE checklist, the project proponent shall submit one (1) set
of the Checklist at the EIA Section of the EMB Regional Office where the project is to
be located. A duly accomplished Procedural Screening Form shall accompany the
IEE Checklist submission.
2. Upon the presentation/submission of the Checklist, the Screening Officer shall
immediately determine its completeness and conformance with the DENR prescribed
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    4
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
requirements. Immediate determination shall mean completion of the Procedural
Review within the same day of IEE checklist submission.
3. The Screening Officer shall indicate, through a check/tick mark under the Yes, No or
Not Applicable column, the presence or absence of a particular information required.
4. The determination of the completeness of the IEE Checklist will be based on the
sufficiency of responses to all questions or checklist and information provided in the
matrix.
5. If the IEE Checklist is complete, it will be formally accepted. The proponent will be
furnished a copy of the accomplished procedural form duly signed by the Screening
Officer.
6. If the Checklist is incomplete, it shall be immediately returned to the proponent for
revision or submission of the missing requirement/information. The reason for non-
acceptance shall be stated in writing at the appropriate place in the form.
7. If the IEE Checklist has complied with all the DENR prescribed requirements, the
proponent shall submit 3 copies of the documents to EIA Section of the concerned
EMB Regional Office.
The proponent shall pay the amount of P3,000.00 at the Cashier Section of
concerned EMB Regional Office upon submitting the required number of copies at
the Record Section of the same office.
8. All IEE Checklist not following the said standard procedures shall not be considered
as valid applications and therefore, shall not be used as a basis for recommendation
on the issuance or denial of the ECC.
9. The project proponent or his duly recognized representative shall be the one who will
follow-up the said application to the respective EMB Regional Office. The processing
time including the issuance and/or denial of the ECC will take a maximum of 30 days.
10. The EIA Section of EMB Regional Office, in the course of substantial review, may
conduct site visit or ocular inspection in coordination with the project proponent
11. If the EMB finds that the lEE Checklist has substantially addressed all the significant
impacts and relevant issues by way of mitigation and enhancement measures, it shall
recommend the issuance of the ECC. The EMB Regional Office may call for a
technical conference to explain to the project proponent the relevance of the ECC
and the various conditions stated therein for compliance by the project proponent.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines                                  5



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
IEE Checklist Form for Roads and Bridges Projects       of
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION (IEE)
CHECKLIST FORM FOR ROADS AND BRIDGES
PROJECTS
SECTION 1. REQUIRED INFORMATION
This section presents the various information required to be submitted by the project
proponent as attachments to the IEE Checklist, without which the application for ECC will not
be accepted.
Attachments                               Remarks
o  Topographic map (scale 1:50,000) indicating  project
site (road alignment, location of bridge/s, and other
components etc.) and significant landmarks, or straight
line diagram of the project showing water bodies and
other relevant areas to be traversed vital in the
evaluation of the project
o  Preliminary engineering design/drawings on the road,
bridges and other appurtenances/components
o  Inventory of trees with commercial value duly certified
byCENRO
o  Proposed schedules of activities
(construction stage)
Li Barangay Resolution endorsing the
Project/Municipal/City Council Resolution endorsing the
Project/minutes of public consultation
o3 Oath of Undertaking specifically focused on the
compensation of the affected stakeholders or Deed of
Donations
o3 Accountability Statement of Project Proponent(s)
o  Receipt of the Processing Fee (worth Php 3,000.00)
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     6
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
SECTION 2.     GENERAL INFORMATION
2.1   Project Title
2.2   Project Location
(complete address, barangay!streetlsitiol
municipality/city, province)
2.3   Proponent
Contact Person
Address
Tel/Fax #
E-mail
2.4   Project Ownership
Type of Ownership:
[  Single Proprietorship   [ ] Partnership or Joint Venture
[  Corporation             [ ] Cooperatives
[  Others
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
SECTION 3. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Project Description/Objectives
3.2   Implementation Scheme (BOT and its Variants)
D Yes               No      LOthers, pls. Specify
3.3  Total Length to be covered by the Project  l                  l
3.4  Total Project Cost                       |P
Funding Source:
3.5  Project Components
3.5.1 Roads
Stations  Description    Length (kin)  Gradient/     Material of
Stations     Description    Length (km)     Slope      Construction
1
2
3
4
5
6
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                 8
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
GradienV      Material of
Stations     Description    Length (kin)   Slope      Construction
7
8
3.5.2 Bridges
Bridge #   Name/Description   Length    No. of Spans     Design
(Lineal M.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
(note: One entry for each of the proposed bridge)
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project               9
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Attach panoramic view of the project site and its immediate vicinity
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                 0
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
3.6 Manpower and Employment
How many people will be employed by the project?
During the pre-construction/construction period:
During the operation and maintenance period:
3.7 Construction Schedule
How long will the pre-construction/construction period take?
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFINMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
SECTION 4. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT SURROUNDINGS
4.1  Physical Environment
Components/Parameters              Answers         Remarks
Yes   No
What is the general elevation of the project area?       (indicate the area per
elevation range or
< 100 masl                                               estimate the % to total
100-300 masl                                             area)
301-500 masl
501-1,000 masl
1001-1500 masl
>1,500 masl
(To determine elevation, refer to the topographic map
where the elevation per contour line is indicated)
Slope and topography of the area                         (indicating the area
per slope category or
Terrain is flat or level (0-3% slope)?                   estimate the % to total
Gently sloping to undulating (3-8% slope)?               area)
Undulating to rolling (8-1830% slope)?
Rolling to moderately steep (1 8-30% slope)?
Steeply sloping (30-50% slope)?
Very steep to mountainous (>50% slope)?
Are there areas in the site where indications of soil    Causes of erosion:
erosion are occurring? If yes, what activities are
causing erosion?                                         [ ] heavy rains
[  unstable slopes
[ others, pls.
specify
Do you know of any landsliding occurring or that has     Causes of landslide:
occurred in the site?
earthquake
[  unstable slopes
earthmoving
others, pls.
specify
Has the area experienced any flooding during the wet     Period(s) of flooding:
season or typhoons? If yes, when was the last time the
area was flooded? What caused the flooding?    _
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   1 2
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Components/Parameters                Answers         Remarks
Yes   No
Causes of flooding:
[  low area/elevation
[  poor drainage
water logged
area
Soil type of the area:                                     Other soil types:
sandy soil
[  clayey soil
sandy loam soil
Is there an access road going to the project site?         Type of access road:
If yes, what is its distance to the site  km
Does the site conform to the approved land use plan of
the city/municipality?
Are there existing structures or developments around
the project site? If yes, please list them in the space
below or in the opposite space.
What is the present land use of the area?
] Prime Agriculture Land     [ ] Orchard
]Grassland                   [ ] Marshland/Mangrove
]Built-up                    [] Fishpond
] Others, pls. specify
4.2   Biological Environment
Components/Parameters                Answers        Remarks
Yes   No
Are there existing trees and other types of vegetation in
the site? If yes, please provide examples.
Are there birds and other forms of wildlife found in the
area?
Is the site near or within a watershed or forest
reservation area?
If near only, how near?       m or km
If within, indicate name of the watershed or forest
reservation area.
If answer is yes to the above answers, please provide examples of these species
(common or local name) in the table provided below.
Birds and Other Wildlife  Trees and Other Important     Fishery Resources
Vegetation
1.
2.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     13
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Birds and Other Wildlife  Trees and Other Important    Fishery Resources
3_______________________        V egetation
4.
4.3   Socio-Economic Environment
Components/Parameters                       Total Number
Are there existing settlements in the project area? [ ] Yes
[ ]No
If yes, how many households or families?
What is the total population of the barangay(s) covered by
the project?
Average family size:
What are their source(s) of livelihood?
Livelihood Type
]farming
]fishing
[  backyard poultry and piggery
vending / buy and sell
[  sari-sari store
others, pis. specify
Are there existing social infrastructures in the barangay? [ ] Yes [ ] No
If yes, what are these social infrastructures? (pls. Check)
] schools             [ ] communication (e.g.radio, TV, mail,
newspaper)
health centers/clinics  [ ] churches/chapel
] hospitals           [ ] roads
[ transportation      [ ] others,
SECTION 5. PREDICTED AND ASSESSED IMPACTS AND PROPOSED
ENHANCEMENT/ MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1   Pre-Construction/Construction Phase
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     14
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Predicted And       Answers       Proposed EnhancemenV          Remarks
Assessed Impacts                      Mitigating Measures
Yes    No
Increase in noise level           o  Schedule equipment move in
to blend with regular non-
peak hour -daytime vehicular
traffic. No night time moving
Li Provide barriers in work areas
expected to use equipment
with high noise power level
Slope modification/               U  Minimize land modification
Ground levelling                     following established design
consideration.
Increased in traffic              o  Rerouting of vehicular traffic
to less congested roads
Affects wildlife or their         o  Plant trees/plants in nearby
habitat                              areas but must not affect the
structure built or its purpose.
o Appropriate warning signs
regarding wildlife
conservation
Decreased public /                Li Provide access to affected
community access to                  establishments and minimize
or through the area                  obstruction to areas
Affects other present             o Coordinate with appropriate
utilities and                        utility firms in relocation of
infrastructures                      their utility lines
Increased economic                o  Implement traffic
activity in the area                 management plan
o  Comply with city ordinance,
build temporary facilities
Displacement or                   o  Proper notification of affected
relocation of                        areas and restore services as
people/community                     quickly as possible and
schedule disruption during
non-peak hours
o  Inform and compensate
affected stakeholders prior to
their relocation
Increased employment              o  Hire as many locals
especially those that will be
displaced
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     15
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Predicted and          Answers       Proposed Enhancementl         Remarks
Assessed Impacts                       Mitigating Measures
Yes    No
Impact on indigenous              u Schedule activities during non-
communities /                        peak hours
vulnerable groups/
women
Increased housing                 o  Provide temporary bunkhouse
requirement for                      on site or rent houses in
transient workers,                   neighboring communities if
project management                   housing requirements cannot
staff?                               be accommodated in the
locality where the project is
located
Traverse areas with               u  Report recoveries to the Local
historical significance              Cultural and Historical Affairs
Commission, National
Museum and other institution
interested in the subject
matter, immediately comply
with pertinent laws in the
matter and request supervision
to the proper authority
Increased hazards due             u  Provide safety equipment and
to post-construction                 appropriate warning signs
wastes/debris                        along the route
o  Provide alternative use of the
construction yard/staging area
once the project demobilizes
o  Clear construction debris, form
works and equipment and
removal of all obstruction
o  Minimize construction clutter,
proper management of
construction debris, provide
barrier to hide
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines                                    16



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
5.2   Operation Phase
PREDICTED AND       ANSWERS       PROPOSED ENHANCEMENT/         REMARKS
ASSESSED                         MITIGATING MEASURES
IMPACTS         YES    NO
Increased flooding                o  Provide adequate drainage and
and clogging of                      direct flow to the nearest
drainage                             oufflow
Increased economic                o  Inevitable. The LGU will have
activities                          the jurisdiction to control
activities in the area
Affect wildlife or their          o  Plant trees/plants in nearby
habitat                              areas but must not affect the
structure built or its purpose
o Appropriate warning signs
regarding wildlife conservation
Others
5.3   Abandonment Phase
Project Life or Service:       years
Provide description of the Abandonment activities, such as, dismantling and
waste disposal.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    17
Environmental Fromework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
ACCOUNTABILITY STATEMENT
This is to certify that all the information and commitments in this Initial Environmental
Examination (IEE) Checklist are accurate and complete. Should we learn of any information
which would make this IEE Checklist inaccurate, I/we shall bring said information to the
attention of the appropriate EMB DENR Regional Office.
We hereby bind ourselves jointly and solidarily to any penalty that may by imposed
arising from any misrepresentation of failure to state material information in this IEE
Checklist.
In witness whereof, we hereby set our hands this    day of          at
Project Proponent
Title or designation
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
BEFORE     ME    this  (day)                 of                 200
at     (place)                         .personaliy  appeared
name)                           with Community Tax Certificate No.    issued
on    date                 at (place)                   , in his/her capacity as
(designation               at                     and
acknowledged to me that this IEE Checklist is his voluntary act and deed, and voluntary act
and deed    of the entity he/she  represents.  This document which consists of
(no)                             pages, including  the  page  of which   this
acknowledgment is written, is an Initial Environmental Examination Checklist.
Witness my hand and seal on the place and date above written.
Notary Public
Doc. No.
Page No.
Book No.
Series of
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines                                    18



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
GUIDE ON IEE CHECKLIST FOR SELECTED ROADS AND BRIDGES PROJECTS
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project          19
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
%                        Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
r
II. SCOPE AND COVERAGE
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              20
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
III. INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF THE IEE
CHECKLIST
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project            21
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
IV. IEE CHECKLIST FORM
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              22
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
V.    ANNEXES
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              23
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Annex A
Definition of Terms of IEE Checklist for
Roads and Bridges Projects
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              24
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
DEFINITION OF TERMS
For the purpose of this IEE Checklist and whenever any of the following words and terms are
used herein, shall have the meaning described in this section:
PROJECT NAME            refers to official name of project
PROJECT LOCATION        refers to location of the project. Proponent should provide
complete description/s of the location of the project (e.g.,
terminal  points,  proposed  alignments,  barangay/sitios
traversed, etc.)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION     short description of the project (e.g., length, material of
construction, general/predominant use, etc.)
NAME OF PROPONENT       refers to the owner of the project (e.g., DPWH, name of LGU,
etc.).
CONTACT PERSON           refers to person/s who is authorized to transact business with
DENR/EMB on behalf of the Proponent (i.e., mayor)
ADDRESS                 refers to official address of proponent and contact person/s.
The address of contact person/s should also be given if
different from that of the proponent.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEME         description of how the project will be implemented (e.g.,
by contractor, by proponent, etc.). If the project is to be
implemented by entities other than the proponent, the
name/identity of that entity/s should be provided, if available.
Otherwise, the mode of selection should be described (e.g., by
bidding, by negotiation, etc.)
PROJECT COST            refers to TOTAL project costs expressed in Philippine Pesos
FUNDING AGENCY/S        refers to mode of financing or source of funds (e.g., LGU's
budget, DPWH, bank loan, etc.). If funding is provided by
outside source, the name of the project or description of the
source and the name of the funding agencies should be
provided (e.g., ARCDP of WB, bond issued by name of
underwriters, loan from DBP, etc.)
NATIONAL ROADS          means a way made for travelling by the general public using
motorized land based vehicles, which is under the
administration of the national government through the DPWH,
which includes pavements, shoulders, embankments, right-of-
way, bridges, ferries, drainage structures, signs guardrails and
related protective structures
DESCRIPTION/NAME        refers to the name of the road or sections/parts thereof.
LENGTH                  refers to the length of the road or sections/parts thereof
expressed in meter/ kilometers
GRADIENT/ SLOPE         refers to the slope or gradient of the road or sections/parts
thereof expressed either in degrees (0) or in percent (%).
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                    25
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
MATERIAL OF CONSTRUCTION      refers to the materials used in construction of the road
(e.g., gravel, asphalt, cement, etc.). The use of any soil
stabilizers (or any other additives) should also be mentioned.
BRIDGE                  A structure that connects two points and carries pedestrians or
vehicle traffic over an obstacle such as a body of water, a
declivity or another road.
IMPROVEMENT             Change to a road, bridge or other structure that adds value,
prolongs its use or adapts it to different use; any work that that
substantially changes the nature, strength and quality of the
existing national road or bridge uniformly along the entire
length of the road section
RE-CONSTRUCTION         A capital improvement that requires alteration or expansion of
a road and usually results in realignment, improvement, or
rebuilding refers to work that involves rebuilding the base of a
roadway (grading) as well as the surface. It can also refer to
bridge reconstruction.
RETRO-FITTING           To modify an item after purchase to correct an improper
design, to replace a faulty component or to make new
improvements to an older model.
REHABILITATION          To restore, refurbish, bring back to original Condition; the act
of restoring any type of national highway/ road or bridge to its
condition as originally constructed or as subsequently
improved, when the conditions of these structures has so
deteriorated that normal maintenance efforts, procedures and
expenditures are inadequate to accomplish the task
PIER                    Any column of masonry that is used to support other structural
members such as beams or girders; The support between two
bridge spans, usually arches
ABUTMENT                The end of a culvert or bridge that protrudes above the ground.
The abutment is usually made of concrete.
SUPERSTRUCTURE          The part of a building or other structure above the foundation
SUBSTRUCTURE            The supporting part of a structure; the foundation
MAINTENANCE             Periodic expenditure needed to preserve a property's original
status rather than to improve that property. Activity required to
compensate for wear and tear
BODIES OF WATER         refers to creeks, rivers, canals, lake, sea, etc.
ECA AREA                refers to national parks, watershed areas, sanctuaries or
similar areas refers to forested areas, protected areas, areas
where endangered/ threatened species have been sighted,
etc.
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY/S        refers to any indigenous community located within 10
km of the project site. As per definition of RA 8371 (IPRA),, an
indigenous community refers to a group of people who have
possessed customs, traditions and other distinctive cultural
traits different from that of the majority of the Filipinos.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   26
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
VULNERABLE GROUP/S      refers to the elderly, youth, young children, physically
challenged and other such sectors
SITES WITH CULTURAL/HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE (examples) archaeological sites,
churches, cemetery, burial sites, monuments, sites of historical
battles, etc.
PRELIMINARY PLAN        Preliminary drawings of structures to be built
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   27
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
Annex B
EMB Regional Offices Directory
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project              28
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



DFIMDP
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT BUREAU OFFICIALS DIRECTORY
OFFICE        DIRECTOR           ADDRESS          TEL. NO.      FAX NO.
CENTRAL      JULIAN D.         DENR Cmpd.,        927-15-17     927-15-18
OFFICE       AMADOR            Visayas Ave.,      920-22-38     920-22-41
Diliman, Quezon   920-22-40
City              920-22-43
REGIONAL OFFICES
NCR          SIXTO E.          Congressional Plaza 453-88-14    926-09-40
TOLENTINO JR.     Bldg., # 51       453-87-78
Congressional Ave., 926-0934
Q. C.             926-09-24
loc. 125
REGION 1     JOEL G.           2nd Floor Lee Bldg.,  (072) 242-30-57 (72) 242-30-
SALVADOR          Brgy. Lingsat, San     242-35-   12
Fernando, La Union  97                242-26-
888-38-   86
33                 242-27-
RED 41-29-75   27
REGION 2     LORENZO C.        EMB Nursery       (078) 844-43-21  (078) 846-91-
AGALOOS           Cmpd., San Gabriel     846-28-   29
Villag, Tuguegarao  67                846-32-
City6, Cagayan                   59
REGION 3     LORMELYN E.       Amalgamated Bldg., (045) 963-46-47 (045) 963-46-
CLAUDIO           Brgy. Balite, San      963-46-48  46
Fernando,              963-46-54      963-46-
Pampanga               888-09-85  51
963-46-
52
REGION 4 A    ERLINDA A.       1515 L&S Bldg.,    302-11-83     521-22-53
GONZALES          Roxas Blvd., Ermita  536-00-27   536-97-84
Manila            536-97-67      536-97-86
536-97-84
536-97-86
4 B    WILFREDOA.        1515 L&S Bldg.,   302-11-83      521-22-53
RINA              Roxas Blvd., Ermita  536-00-27   536-97-84
Manila            536-97-67      536-97-86
536-97-84
536-97-86
REGION 5     GILBERT C.        Regional Center    (052) 482-01-97 820-50-65
GONZALES          Rawis, Legaspi City    482-03-
26
820-25-
36
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                  29
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 4- IEE Checklist Form for Farm-to-Market Roads and Bridges
OFFICE        DIRECTOR           ADDRESS          TEL. NO.       FAX NO.
REGION 6     ROBEN A. CALVO                       (033) 336-26-57 (033) 337-98-
Pepita Aquino         336-98-01  01
Ave.,Port Area, Iloilo  336-99-10
REGION 7     ALLAN C.          Banilad, Mandaue   (032) 345-39-05 (032) 345-39-
ARANGUEZ          City                   346-06-   66
61                  346-16-
346-20-   47
72                  346-22-
346-94-   25
20
0917-479-24-86
REGION 8     ERNESTO G.        DENR Cmpd., Sto.  (053) 325-21-49 (053) 325-21-
MANUEL            Niho St., Tacloban     325-21-50  49
City                   325-72-68      321-33-
86
REGION 9     MARIO N.          FORI Bldg., DENR   (062) 991-10-76 991-14-24
BULACAN           Lantawan,         0919-403-01-31 991-90-12
Pasonaca,
Zamboanga City
7000
REGION 10     RUTH G. SABIJON  DENR 10 Cmpd.,    (088) 856-93-62 (08822) 726-
Macabalan,        (08822) 762-   280
Cagayan de Oro    243
City
REGION 11    BIENVENIDO L.     Door 2, Flebet's  (082) 233-08-09 233-17-65
LIPAYON           Bldg., Km. 7 Lanag,    233-17-   234-08-11
Davao City        65
200-00-
40
REGION 12    METODIO U.        4th Floor Siyambio  (083) 228-48-47 228-48-45
TURBELLA          Bldg., Roxas St.,                228-48-47
Koronadal, South
Coatabato
REGION 13     REYNALDO R.      Ambago, Butuan     (085) 341-83-74 (085) 815-10-
VILLAFUERTE       City                   342-29-   45
93                  226-45-
00
CAR           FREDRIC G.       DENR Cmpd.,       (074) 442-23-46 444-73-64
VILLANUEVA        Gibraltar, Baguio      443-49-
City              09
444-73-
64
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                  30
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 5- Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm-to-Market Roads
Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm-to-Market
Roads
PROJECT NAME:
PROJECT LOCATION:
PROPONENT:
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
We are committed to.....
*   comply with existing environmental rules and regulations, guidelines and criteria;
*   comply with all mitigating measures necessary to minimize negative impacts and
appropriate enhancement measures to maximize positive impacts; and
*   properly brief contractors, residents and other stakeholders on commitments or
agreements in connection with the Project.
1.0 PRE-IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
1.1 Planning and design  Enhanced stakeholder                  LGU
of road              participation     - Hold meeting with
rehabilitation/constru                 project beneficiaries and
ction                                  other stakeholders on
the construction plan,
operation and
management plans and
corresponding
environmental
management plan
1.2 Hiring of construction  Increased employment  - Giving hiring  LGU
workers/laborers     opportunity and   preference to qualified
community income  local community
TOTAL COST FOR PRE-IMPLEMENTATION
2.0 IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
2.1 Rehabilitation of  - Accumulation of   - Scrapping, removal &  Contractor
Farm to Market Road  rubbish materials    disposal of rubbish &  /LGU
along the roadway as  foreign materials to
a result of clearing &  the dumpsite of the
grubbing operations.  municipality.
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                                      I
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelinesines



DFIMDP
Annex 5- Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm-to-Market Roads
Subproject               Possible               Mlitigating/            Responsible         Cost of
/Activities/             Environmental           Enhancement            Agency / Unit       Mitigation
Components               Effects /Impacts        Measures                               _     (Php)
Loosening of top soil  - Compaction of topsoil   Contractor
due to the removal of   as required by the      /LGU
excess earth materials  specifications.
along the roadway.
Existence of slightly  - Hauling, spreading &    Contractor
low laying areas along  compacting of filling   /LGU
the road sections       materials from earth
cuts.
- Hauling, spreading &    Contractor/
compacting of filling   LGU
materials from
borrow pits to fill in
low laying areas.
Muddy, soft, unstable  - Hauling, spreading      Contractor
road foundation.       and compacting sub-       /LGU
base & surface
materials at .1 5mtrs.
thick each from Sta.
0+000 to Sta. 6+000
Hardly passable       - Provision of PCCP         Contractor/
section along          with .1 5mtr. thick       LGU
Sta.0+260 to
Sta.0+480.
Over flooding of the  - Provision of 40 lineS  Contractor
road due to excessive  (610 dia RCPC) along     /LGU
accumulation of        the roadway as
rainwaters.            indicated in the plan.
- Provision of 40 units    Contractor
Junction Box and 40       /LGU
Units
Outfall/Headwalls to
convey rainwater to
RCPC and drainage
Road Sections damage  - Provision of 410 lin.    Contractor
due to no defined      Meters of lined canal     /LGU
waterways for rain     at strategic location
waters                 along the roadway.
Constncting the       - Provision of traffic  Contractor
normal traffic flow    waming signs,
along the road.        barricades and
flagmen along the
road during the entire
work operations of the
Contractor.
- Schedule the delivery
of construction
materials and hauling
out of waste materials
during off peak hours
Degradation of air    - Road traversed by    Contractor
Diversified Farm    Income and Market Development Project                                                2
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelinesines



D F I M D P
Annex 5- Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm-to-Market Roads
Subproject               Possible                Mitigating /            Responsible         Cost of
/Activities/             Environmental           Enhancement             Agency / Unit       Mitigation
Components               Effects AImpacts       MNleasures                                     (Php)
qwhi, is a re ull oi   I,ej . equ,,pilleill u-e
heavy equipment        in the project shall be
operation               moist.
- Noise of operating    -Exhaust mufflers of    Contractor
vehicles beyond       heavy equipment must
normal levels.        be clean & be provided
with silencers.
-Ensure that all
equipment are
maintained in proper
working condition
- Vehicular accidents as  - Restrict work       Contractor
a result of heavy       operations during
equipment operation     daytime only.
within the subproject  - Drivers & heavy
& nearby areas.         equipment operators
shall operate heavy
equipment at reduced
speed.
- Provide appropriate
warning signs, lighting
and barricades,
whenever practicable
- Proper information
dissemination on the
affected areas.
- Erosion of slopes     - Provision of slope    LGU
stabilization measures
such as planting of
cover crops, trees, etc.
along cut slopes.
- Occupational risk and  - Require all workers to  Contractor
health hazards to       strictly observe
construction workers    standards on safety
construction measures
TOTAL COST OF CONSTRUCTION
2.2 Trainings and        - Haphazard             - Provide adequate        DA-RFU/LGU
Seminars                implementation of SPs   trainings to sub-
project implementers.
- Low quality of        - Provide adequate        DA-RFU/LGU
constructed             quality control
infrastructure.        trainings to LGU &
PPO staff.
- Lack or no proper     - Provide adequate      DA-RFUILGU
maintenance of          trainings on O&M to
completed SPs           LGUs and BITs.
TOTAL COST OF TRAINING
Diversified Farm     Income and Market Development Project                                                3
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelinesines



DFIMDP
Annex 5- Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction and Rehabilitation of Farm-to-Market Roads
Subproject              Possible               Nlitigating /          Responsible        Cost of
/Activities/            Environmental          Enhancement            Agency I Unit      MIitigation
Components              Effects /Impacts       Measures                                    (Php)
2.3 Monitoring and      -Implementation of sub-  -Closely monitor &   LGU
supervision of sub-       project not in        supervised the work of
project implementation.   accordance with the    the Contractor using
approved plans,       the project
specifications &       management tools.
quality
TOTAL COST OF MONITORING
3. POST IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
3.1 Operation &         Reduced farm income    - LGU to ensure proper     LGU
Maintenance             due to difficulty in     use of the road & its
transporting farm goods  timely maintenance
as a result of          for a period of 10
deterioration of road   years.
- Provide appropriate
warning signs along
the route, if necessary
-Erosion of Road       - Planting of Shrubs &  LGU
Shoulders               bushes & selected
trees along the road
shoulders.
TOTAL COST FOR OF IMPLEMENTATION
Prepared by:                                                       Endorsed by:
Mun. Planning and Development Officer                                    Municipal Mayor
Date Signed                                                  Date Signed
Diversified Farm    Income and Market Development Project                                             4
Environmental Assessment Framework and Guidelinesines



D F I M D P
Annex 6- Pro-Forma Environmental Management Plan for
CZ Aprtrl I= tio g4 Af 04, -I ti p,1 -PPAq1 R, Iiip qlS r/CrnAtrrr
Pro-forma Environmental Management Plan
for Construction of Multi-purpose Buildings/Centers
PROJECT:
PROJECT LOCATION:
PROPONENT:
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
We are committed to.....
*  comply with existing environmental rules and regulations, guidelines and criteria;
*  comply with all mitigating measures necessary to minimize negative impacts and
appropriate enhancement measures to maximize positive impacts; and
*  properly brief contractors, residents and other stakeholders on commitments or
agreements in connection with the Project.
Project          Possible              Mitigating/      Responsible    Cost of
Phase/        Environmental          Enhancement          Agency/     Mitigation
Activities/    Effects/ Impacts          Measures            Unit
Components
1. Pre-construction Phase
1.1 Planning  - Enhanced            - Hold meeting with     LGU/Propon  P500 for
and design of  stakeholder          project beneficiaries and   ent     snacks
multi-purpose  participation        other stakeholders on the
center                              construction plan,
operation and
management plans and
corresponding
environmental
management plan.
1.2 Hiring of  - Increased          - Give hiring preference  LGU/Propon
construction   employment           to qualified local          ent
workers/labore  opportunity and     community residents
rs             community income
2. Construction Phase
2.1            - Temporary increase  - Provide barriers in work  Contractor  Covered
Construction of in noise level due to  areas expected to use            under
multi-purpose  construction activities  equipment with high noise       construction
center (MPC)   and equipment        power level                         cost
operation            - Provide silencers for
noisy equipment,
whenever practicable
- Ensure that all
equipment are maintained
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 6- Pro-Forma Environmental Management Plan for
Project          Possible             Mitigating/       Responsible   Cost of
Phase/        Environmental          Enhancement         Agency/     Mitigation
Activities/    Effects/ Impacts         Measures             Unit
Components
in proper working
condition
- Temporary          - Wet affected area, to  Contractor
degradation in air   minimize discomfort to
quality due to dust  nearby residents
- Sedimentation/siltatio  - Set up temporary silt  Contractor
n of drainage or     trap/ponds to prevent
waterways from       siltation
unconfined stockpiles  - Proper stockpiling of
of soil and other    spoils (on flat areas and
materials            away from drainage
routes)
- Proper disposal of
spoils
- Increased hazards  - Provide appropriate    Contractor  Covered
and risks to community  warning signs, lighting          under
and barricades, whenever            construction
practicable                         cost (
P5,000 for
- Limit construction                signage,
activities during daytime           safety nets
only                                and lighting)
- Properly notify affected
areas and restore
services as quickly as
possible and schedule
disruption during off-peak
hours
- Occupation risk and  - Require all workers to  Contractor  Covered
health hazards to    strictly observe standards          under
construction workers  safety construction                construction
measures                            cost
(P5,000 for
- Provide potable water             potable
water during
- Provide temporary                 period of
sanitation facilities for           construction
crew. If not possible, road         )
crew must employ soil
mining
2.2 Design    - Quality assurance  - Conduct periodic,         LGU
verification and                   inspection of work to
quality control                    ensure that it conforms to
original plan and design
specifications
- Institute corrective
measures to ensure
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                     2
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



D F I M D P
Annex 6- Pro-Forma Environmental Management Plan for
(_______ I_tin- _f A1  llti  p pl ;rnp_ R- --lAi-in=-/(m 
Project          Possible             Mitigating/      Responsible   Cost of
Phase/        Environmental         Enhancement         Agency/     Mitigation
Activities/    Effects/ Impacts        Measures            Unit
Components
conformance
3. Oeration and Maintenance
3.1 Operation  - Ensured sustainability - Allocate sufficient  LGU/Propon
and           of the project       budget for maintenance     ent
maintenace of                      Prepare and implement
MPC                                an acceptable 0 & M Plan
- Generation of
domestic wastes      - Proper collection and
disposal of solid wastes
- Proper housekeeping
and maintenance
Prepared by:                              Endorsed by:
Mun. Planning and Development Officer                 Municipal Mayor
Date Signed                                 Date Signed
Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project                   3
Environmental Framework and Guidelines



