                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001166



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72360)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                      FOR A

    DIVERSIFIED FARM INCOME AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                   June 28, 2010




Philippines Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 2009)

               Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PhP)
                   PhP 1.00 =      US$ 0.02088
                   US$ 1.00 =       PhP 47.9053

                          FISCAL YEAR

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytical and Advisory Activities
ACPC     Agricultural Credit Policy Council
AFIS     Agriculture and Fisheries Information Service
AFMA     Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act
AFMIS    Agricultural and Fisheries Market Information Service
AFMP     Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Plan
AMAS     Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service
AO       Administrative Order
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
ASAs     Allocation Sub-Allotments
AT       Agricultural Technician
ATI      Agricultural Training Institute

BACs     Bids and Awards Committees
BAI      Bureau of Animal Industry
BAFPS    Bureau of Agricultural Food Product Standards
BAR      Bureau of Agricultural Research
BAS      Bureau of Agricultural Statistics, Department of Agriculture
BFAR     Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
BPI      Bureau of Plant Industry
BPHRE    Bureau of Post-Harvest Research and Extension

CAR      Cordillera Administrative Region
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
COA      Commission on Audit
         Congressional Oversight Committee for Agriculture and Fisheries
COCAFM   Modernization

CPBD     Congressional Planning and Budget Department

DA       Department of Agriculture
DBM      Department of Budget and Management
DFIMDP        Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
DOF           Department of Finance
DOST          Department of Science and Technology
DTI           Department of Trade and Industry

eNGAS         Electronic New Government Accounting System
EO            Executive Order
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union

FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FIES          Family Income and Expenditure Survey
FM            Financial Management
FMRs          Farm-to-Market Roads
FMS           Financial Management Service
FPA           Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority

GAA           General Appropriations Act
GMA           Ginintuang Masaganang Ani
GOCC          Government Owned and Controlled Corporation
GOP           Government of the Philippines

IAs           Implementing Agencies
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IL ­ ICR      Intensive Learning - Implementation Completion Review
IP            Indigenous People
ISR           Implementation Status Report
ITCAF         Information Technology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries

LBRMO         Legislative Budget Research and Monitoring Office
LGU or LGUs   Local Government Unit/s

MAO           Municipal Agricultural Officer
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MFOs          Major Final Outputs
MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework

NAFC          National Agriculture and Fisheries Council
NEDA          National Economic and Development Authority
NFA           National Food Authority
NG            National Government
NMIC    National Meat Inspection Council
NMIS    National Meat Inspection Service
NPS     National Program Support
NPV     Net Present Value

OPIF    Organization Performance Indicator Framework
OSec    Office of the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture

PAB     Project Advisory Board
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAg     Program Agreement
PAO     Provincial Agricultural Officer
PCR     Project Completion Report
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PEM     Public Expenditure Management
PMO     Project Management Office

QAG     World Bank Quality Assessment Group
QEA     Quality at Entry
QSA     Quality of Supervision

RA      Republic Act
R&D     Research and Development
RFUs    Regional Field Units of the Department of Agriculture
RPABs   Regional Program Advisory Boards

SARO    Special Allotment Order
SEER    Sector Efficiency and Effectiveness Review
SEPO    Senate Economic Planning Office
SIL     Sector Investment Loan
SIM     Sector Investment and Maintenance
SMS     Short Message Service
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SUCs    State Universities and Colleges

TA      Technical Assistance
TWG     Technical Working Group

USD     United States Dollar
                                           Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
                                       Country Director: Bert Hofman, EACPF
                 Sustainable Development Leader: Mark C. Woodward, EASPS
                                     Task Team Leader: Felizardo Jr K.Virtucio, EASPS

                                                       PHILIPPINES

    DIVERSIFIED FARM INCOME AND MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Rating: High................................. 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance: .................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing:......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 59
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 61
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 63
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 67
  Annex 8: List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 74
  MAP.............................................................................................................................. 75
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Diversified Farm
Country:                Philippines               Project Name:             Income and Market
                                                                            Development Project
Project ID:             P075184                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72360
ICR Date:               06/28/2010                ICR Type:                 Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIM                       Borrower:
                                                                            PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                        USD 60.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 25.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 60.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/05/2002      Effectiveness:                                10/29/2004
Appraisal:            02/11/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/22/2004      Mid-term Review:         09/28/2007           10/09/2007
                                      Closing:                 06/30/2009           06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                  15                  20
Agricultural marketing and trade                                     60                  63
Central government administration                                     5                     6
Roads and highways                                                    5                     2
Sub-national government administration                               15                     9


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                               25                  27
Infrastructure services for private sector development               24                  16
Rural markets                                                        13                  13
Rural services and infrastructure                                    25                  26
Technology diffusion                                                 13                  18

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                         Robert V. Pulley
Sector Manager:            Mark C. Woodward                    Rahul Raturi
Project Team Leader:       Felizardo Jr K. Virtucio            Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron
ICR Team Leader:           Felizardo Jr K. Virtucio
ICR Primary Author:        Douglas A. Forno




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to assist the Government of the Philippines (GOP) to
strengthen the capacity of its Department of Agriculture (DA) to provide market-oriented
services to increase agricultural competitiveness and rural incomes. The project is part of
the Government's long-term developmental objective (i) to transform its Department of
Agriculture into a more service and market-oriented agency; and (ii) to arrest and reverse
the declining competitiveness of the agriculture and fisheries sector by creating better
conditions for agribusiness diversification and productivity-enhancing investments by the
private sector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Better client satisfaction and appreciation of DA's delivery of market
Indicator 1 :
                  development services and investments.
Value             Baseline Client
                                              >35% increase
quantitative or   Satisfaction Survey was                                        Not available
                                              from baseline
Qualitative)      finalized in January 2006
Date achieved     04/04/2005                  06/30/2009                         06/30/2009
                  Not yet done.In line with the Loan Agreement & the PAD, the NEDA was
Comments
                  supposed to lead the preparation of the DFIMDP Terminal Evaluation. However,
(incl. %
                  this was not done. Nevertheless, the DA has initiated the preparation of its own
achievement)
                  project completion report.
                  Increase in the proportion of budgetary resources for DA's core functions.
Indicator 2 :
                  Indicative targets compared with baseline averages from the past five years
                                                                                 Market-oriented
                                              Total target by end
Value             Total Baseline figure is                                       activities account
                                              of project is 47%
quantitative or   32% of approved                                                for 25% of
                                              of approved
Qualitative)      allocations.                                                   approved
                                              allocations
                                                                                 allocations in 2009
Date achieved     10/01/2004                  06/30/2009                         06/30/2009
Comments
              Not achieved. End-project period proportion of DA#s annual budgetary resources
(incl. %
              for core functions is even lower than the baseline figures in 2004.
achievement)




                                                 iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                Support to Market Development Services - Operationalization of the AFMIS in
Indicator 1 :
                the four focus areas
                No regular market
                                           Regular AFMIS
Value           information service is
                                           access by 75% of
(quantitative   operating in the Country                                     Not available
                                           targeted farmers in
or Qualitative) serving small-scale
                                           the 4 focus areas
                farmers.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
                Partially achieved. An AFMIS Operations Manual has been completed and
Comments
                approved. The AFMIS application system was accepted by the Market
(incl. %
                Development Cluster in May 2009 and updated in May 2010. The AFMIS
achievement)
                database and Web server have been pilot-tested.
                Market Dev'ts - All infrastructure investments supported by the DA in Focus
Indicator 2 : Areas are executed following the procedures described in the Operations Manual
                to improve cost-effectiveness
Value
                No Standard procedures
(quantitative                              100% adoption                     Not available
                exist
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
                Achieved. All regional offices of the DA have been provided copies of the
Comments
                Operations Manual, and Regional Field Units (RFUs) participating in the
(incl. %
                DFIMD project have institutionalized their Regional Advisory Boards and
achievement)
                Regional Technical Secretariats.
                Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance - Full disclosure of regulatory
Indicator 3 :
                procedures, charges, forms etc. through web-based information system
                                           User-friendly                     User-friendly
Value                                      comprehensive                     comprehensive
                No Effective System
(quantitative                              web-based system                  web-based system
                exists
or Qualitative)                            operating and                     operating and
                                           publicized                        publicized
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments        Achieved. An on-line system was launched in September 2008 which provides
(incl. %        information on the requirements, process and the ability to down-load forms
achievement) needed to obtain clearances.
                Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance - Full cost charge-out rates applied
Indicator 4 : for services connected with provision of clearances, certification, provision of
                improved genetic material etc.
Value           No overall policy exists. Full cost recovery
(quantitative   Cost recovery is ad hoc for all services                     Not achieved.
or Qualitative) and inconsistently applied achieved
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments        Not achieved. Executive Order No. 554, issued by the President in 2006,
(incl. %        eliminated fees and charges imposed on export clearances, inspections, permits,


                                              iv
achievement)      certificates and other documentation requirements, thereby defeating the purpose
                  of this indicator.
                  Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance - Increase in the number of
Indicator 5 :     accredited private sector operated seed production units, nurseries and analytical
                  laboratories, servicing the sector
                                              Continued
                                              adoption of DA
                  DA private sector                                             161 % increase in
                                              private sector
Value             accreditation guidelines                                      the number of
                                              accreditation
(quantitative     finalized and adopted;                                        accredited Seed
                                              guidelines, and
or Qualitative)   Collection of baseline                                        Producers during
                                              increase in
                  data figures                                                  2004-2008
                                              baseline figures by
                                              at least 20%
Date achieved     10/01/2004                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments          Achieved. Issuance of A.O. 6 in 2006 instructing that any procurement by the
(incl. %          DA of seed or plant material should be from accredited suppliers provided
achievement)      incentive for seed producers and nurseries to become accredited.
                  Market linked Technology Dev't and Dissemination - Loan funds provided
Indicator 6 :     through CRG should be in support of research with clear linkages to improving
                  marketability of crop/livestock/fishery products
                                              Continued
                                                                                Continued adoption
                                              adoption of
Value             No mechanisms exist for                                       of Guidelines for
                                              Guidelines for
(quantitative     ensuring market linkages                                      Competitive
                                              Competitive
or Qualitative)   in research activities.                                       Research Grants
                                              Research Grants
                                                                                Guidelines
                                              Guidelines
Date achieved     10/01/2004                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments          Achieved. The #competitive# approach to funding research has been adopted and
(incl. %          effectively implemented for all types of research. Targets were exceeded in
achievement)      most years and the system has operated well beyond project closing.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     10/27/2004             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/12/2005             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.75
  3     12/21/2005             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               1.62
                               Moderately
  4     06/29/2006                                        Unsatisfactory                    3.60
                              Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately
  5     06/29/2007                                        Unsatisfactory                    5.15
                              Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                  Moderately
  6     06/30/2008                                                                         22.39
                              Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately
  7     06/30/2009                                        Unsatisfactory                   27.71
                              Unsatisfactory




                                                  v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The project was approved in June 2004, at a time when some 50% of rural households were estimated to
live below the poverty line and heavily dependent on agriculture. The agriculture sector's performance
had been poor as the Philippines' competitive edge in world markets for its key commodities (rice, corn,
sugar and coconuts) had been slipping, with few new competitive agricultural products emerging. In
response, the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA) of 1997 sought to modernize
agriculture and fisheries in order to prepare the sector for the challenges of globalization.

However, despite the AFMA, there was a widespread perception among stakeholders, especially the
Oversight Agencies and senior DA management, that policy and institutional distortions continued to
plague the sector. These were manifested in persistent ineffectiveness in addressing market and price
signals, inordinately high marketing costs, and relatively little private sector investment in value-addition
and post harvest processing. Government programs relating to market development, market information,
and implementation of regulatory functions had also been severely under-funded. Moreover, institutional
and public expenditure reforms to improve the Department of Agriculture's (DA) performance were
believed to be long overdue. An external impetus was needed to move away from special commodity/
production programs ("Banner" or "GMA Programs" as they became known) by which the bulk of
resources were allocated. These were perceived as leading to gross under-funding of the core functions
supporting a more modern and competitive agriculture sector. 2 These viewpoints were supported by
several studies undertaken by Government which pointed to the need for a more private sector, market-
oriented approach to agricultural development.

It was in this context that the World Bank was requested to assist the DA with reform, while also aiding
the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and the National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) in overall improving public expenditure management (PEM). The PEM reforms were
designed to improve efficiency and accountability, by improving the link between planning and budgeting
and in allocating resources according to major final outputs 3(MFOs). These were expected to promote the
DA's restructuring along functional, rather than along commodity, lines and to provide greater emphasis
to market-related activities. A Special Order to this effect was issued by the Secretary of Agriculture to
facilitate project preparation. There were also severe fiscal constraints which seriously limited budget
releases government-wide at that time. Given these policy directions and the fiscal constraints, the Bank
was well-placed to assist the Government of the Philippines (GoP) both in providing the needed cash to
support priority Government programs and in supporting the PEM reforms. The Bank's 2003-2005
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) required it to sharpen its non-lending and lending support to address
the declining competitiveness of Philippine agriculture, if agricultural growth, on-and off-farm
employment creation, and rural poverty reduction were to be achieved. The CAS also included
provisions for National Program Support (NPS) type projects which supported both sector and PEM
reforms.




2
 Project Appraisal Document (Ln. 7236-PH), World Bank.
3
  Refers to goods and services that a department or agency is mandated to deliver to external clients through
programs, activities and projects. These are expected to directly contribute to target organizational outcomes.


                                                          1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project sought to assist the Government of the Philippines (GoP) to strengthen the capacity of its
Department of Agriculture (DA) to provide market-oriented services to increase agricultural
competitiveness and rural incomes. It was expected that institutional and attitudinal change would take
time and sustained effort given entrenched policies, customs and practices. Planned outcomes were,
therefore, modest, as reflected in the Project Appraisal Document's (PAD) Results Framework. The key
performance indicators (KPIs) of the project outcomes were:4

         ·   Better client satisfaction with DA's delivery of market information, development services and
             market-related investments, and
         ·   Increase in the proportion of budgetary resources allocated to DA's core functions dealing with
             a) market information and development services; b) safety and quality assurance regulatory
             systems; and c) market-linked technology development and dissemination.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There was no revision of the project development objectives and key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The DA as well as the participating members of the private sector and Local Government Units (LGUs)
in the four focus areas were to be the immediate beneficiaries and targets for this project. The DA's
capacity in development planning and budgeting and as provider of market-oriented agriculture support
services were to be built. Participating Local Government Units (LGUs) and the private sector were also
to be beneficiaries through partnership funding arrangements for market-related investments in the four
focus areas. The main beneficiaries of the project were, however, the clients of the DA, LGUs and private
service providers, which are the farmers, farmer organizations and cooperatives, agro-processors, traders
and exporters, whose welfare was to be improved through better provision of market information, market
infrastructure, research and development (R&D) and the strengthening of regulatory services.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Support for Market Development Services (US$17.16 Million) to strengthen the
capacity of the Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service (AMAS) of the DA to provide more effective
market promotion, trade fairs, etc., in conjunction with the private sector, and establish an Agriculture and
Fisheries Market Information System (AFMIS).

Component 2: Market Development Investments (US$22.25 Million) that will use improved resource
allocation criteria, in partnership with LGUs and the private sector, initially in four areas: Region 10
(Bukidnon), Region 7 (Cebu and Negros Oriental), Region 6 (Iloilo and Panay Island), and the Cordillera
Administrative Region (CAR).




4
    PAD op. cit., section B3.

                                                       2
Component 3: Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development
(US$17.33 Million) to improve the implementation capacity of the DA's regulatory services, particularly
to meet international standards through support for the DA's six regulatory agencies5.

Component 4: Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination (US$9.66 Million) by
improving the DA's R&D and training outreach through the strengthening of the Bureau of Agricultural
Research (BAR) and Bureau of Post-Harvest Research and Extension (BPRE), using a Competitive
Grants, and the DA's Agricultural Training Institute (ATI).

Component 5: Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning (US$2.72Million) by supporting
the government-wide initiative to improve public expenditure management, especially through more
strategic allocation of the DA's scarce budgetary resources giving more emphasis to the funding of the
DA's core functions relating to market development.

1.6 Revised Components: N/A

1.7 Other significant change: N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The DFIMDP failed to meet its project development objectives (PDO) mainly because the Philippine
government (GoP) backslid from its initial commitment to prioritize financing for market-oriented
agricultural services and investments as well as to overall public expenditure management (PEM) reforms
for the DA. Over the project life, this weakening of commitment to reforms by the government was
reinforced by: i) the perception by the project implementers of non-incrementality in resources and more
cumbersome reporting and accounting requirements inherent in Sector Investment Management (SIM)
loans; ii) the easing of the budget constraint due to improvements in the fiscal position by 2006 and due to
pump-priming activities of the government; iii) the multiplicity of cost-sharing arrangements between the
NG and LGUs allowed by the NEDA; iv) the bureaucratic instability of the DA due to various changes in
leadership; v) capacity constraints in procurement and FM among the project implementers; and vi) the
global rice crisis in 2008 which further encouraged calls for rice self-sufficiency.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design were appropriately responsive to the established policy and legal
framework as well as to the government's reform initiatives and directions in agriculture and in public
expenditure management. The depth of the government's commitment to these development framework
and reforms was, however, overestimated.

Before the project was conceived, the following strategic directions were undertaken and established by
the GoP: i) the AFMA (Republic Act 8435) on February 9, 1998, which aims to modernize and make
Philippine agriculture and fisheries more competitive; ii) DA Administrative Order (A.O.) no. 6 on July
10, 1998, which established the implementing rules and regulations (IRR) of the AFMA; iii) adoption by
the DBM of the Organizational Performance Indicator Framework (OPIF) in the 2000 national budget; iv)
Executive Order (E.O.) 338 on January 10, 2001, which restructured DA Services & Bureaus along 5
functional lines consistent with the AFMA; v) DA management assignment of Focal persons for AFMA


5
 Bureau of Plan Industry, Bureau of Plant Industry, Bureau of Animal Industry, Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources, National Meat Inspection Council, Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority, and Bureau of Agricultural Food
Product Standards

                                                        3
components and MFOs (S.O. 115-2002); vi) Revision of the Public Expenditure Framework and issuance
of implementation guidelines; and vii) E.O. 366 to launch a bureaucracy-wide rationalization program
consistent with, among others, the PEM reforms.

Given these policy directions and the fiscal constraints faced by government at that time, the World
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2003- 2005) was well-positioned to assist the GoP. The CAS
included provisions for National Program Support (NPS) type projects which supported both sector and
PEM reforms. The DFIMDP was designed around this NPS strategy which has been continued in the
current CAS (2010-2012). Accordingly, a Sector Investment and Maintenance (SIM) type loan was
considered the most appropriate instrument to support the NPS strategy which will address the fiscal
constraint of government by facilitating the availability of cash, and to support resource allocations for the
core market-related functions of the DA. As part of the budget envelope of the DA, and by financing core
activities within the budget which are related to market-oriented services, the SIM loan was supposed to
fit seamlessly with the DA's regular budget processes and facilitate the internalization of work planning
and budget reforms. Together with DBM's planned formal introduction of MFO-based budgeting in the
General Appropriations Act (GAA) by 2005, it was felt that the Bank's SIM loan instrument would
facilitate the introduction of important public expenditure reforms through institutional capacity building
and learning -by-doing, be fiscally responsive to the budgetary constraints of the Philippine government
by not adding to the budget envelope of the DA, and facilitate decision making and the process of budget
allocation in the DA in line with the goals of AFMA.

There was strong initial support from the DA as well as from the oversight agencies. The majority of the
units in the DA (at the senior management and staff levels) strongly endorsed the goals of the project due
to the very difficult system under which most of their operational budgets were channeled through, and at
the discretion of, the "Banner/GMA" Program Directors. Thus, together with the analytical studies
previously cited, there were solid bases for the design of the DFIMDP and a satisfactory indication of the
Borrower's overall commitment and ownership for the proposed project.

Nevertheless, it was noted that small "pockets" of resistance were evident in the DA, notably from within
the Finance Service, where the concern was that the proposed "budget support" type loan (SIM) did not
appear to offer any increment to the DA's budget, and also due to the perception that it can potentially
reduce flexibility of DA senior management in resource allocation. There was also little enthusiasm for
the project among the Directors of the "Banner/GMA" programs, whose primary focus was on achieving
commodity- specific production targets. It was anticipated at appraisal that the public sector reforms to
be introduced under the project would run headlong against the budget allocation system operating in the
DA by which the bulk of resources are channeled through "Banner/GMA programs".

It was, however, felt by the Government and the Bank at the time that the introduction of MFO-based
budgeting was the most effective way of rectifying the governance issues surrounding this flexible
mechanism for resource allocation in the DA. This reform was initially proposed to be a condition prior to
negotiation but was removed at the request of DBM since this would require some time and would
depend on the Legislature's process for coming up with the annual GAA. It should be noted that, in April
2004, when the project was supposed to be negotiated, the budget call for 2005 had passed (the process
started in January 2004) and that, realistically, the next opportunity for a MFO-based DA budget would
be in the 2006 GAA. This then posed a dilemma because insisting that this negotiation condition be fully
met would have meant that the project could not be processed until after 2 years. It should be noted that
pressure from Government to deliver this project was quite high due to the difficult fiscal situation at that
time. Moreover, the Oversight Agencies said that DA's compliance to MFO-based budgeting was
virtually assured since: i) discussions between DA and DBM on the matter have been well under way for
more than 2 years even before project conceptualization; and ii) NEDA, DBM, and the DOF would be in


                                                      4
the Project Advisory Board (PAB) to ensure there would be continued commitment by the DA and the
oversight agencies for an MFO-based budget system in the GAA.

However, in the course of project implementation, top-level DA commitment to the reforms espoused by
the project waned considerably. To some extent, this possibility had been correctly identified at appraisal
as a key risk, but the "moderate risk" rating that "successive Governments (or DA Secretaries) may not
have the same level of commitment, ownership or leadership for the institutional reform process" was
underestimated. Nevertheless, given the substantial reform measures committed to by Government under
the AFMA and through the public sector reform process, which provided the basis for the Bank's support
for the project, it is debatable as to whether the implementation problems due to back-sliding on
commitments could have been better anticipated at appraisal.

A "Quality at Entry" review conducted by the QAG in 2005 rated project preparation as "moderately
satisfactory."

2.2 Implementation

The implementation difficulties of the project can largely be traced to the weakening of support by the
administration to the reforms the DFIMDP was tasked to promote. This downscaling of the priority given
to AFMA and PEM reforms by GoP management led to project activities and initiatives taking a backseat
to other DA programs.

The DA continued to set and sought to increasingly achieve production targets of rice and corn during the
project period to the detriment of the AFMA reforms in terms of market-oriented investments and
services. Although it was agreed at loan negotiations that the DA would seek to achieve modest increases
in the allocation of its budget for market-related activities, the allocation actually declined from 32% in
2005 to 25% in 2009.The indicative target was to have been 47% by the end of the project. The Senate
Economic Planning Office (SEPO) most recently concluded that (lack of) "financial support for the
AFMA has greatly hindered the proper implementation of programs"6.

The PEM reforms were, likewise, placed on the backburner by the administration. E.O. 338's
implementation was discontinued and the execution of E.O. 366 was slowed down. MFO-based
budgeting, which was to have been introduced by DBM in 2005, was not effectively implemented even
by loan closing. Thus, there was lack of effective follow-through and application of discipline by the
Oversight Agencies in the implementation of PEM commitments and reforms. For instance, there was no
budgetary discipline imposed to ensure the intended level of funding for market-oriented MFOs occurred.
Rather, the practice continued whereby some 70% of the DA's total operational budget is held in the
Office of the Secretary where it was largely coursed through the "Banner/GMA" programs for production
support. The Coordinators of these programs determine how much of their annual allocations they will
provide to DA units to implement core activities (including market-oriented and regulatory services). This
system perpetuated a cycle of bargaining by implementing agencies to finance core functions. There is
no certainty funds will be provided, and more damaging was the continuous back and forth practice of
providing and getting back previously issued allotments to market-oriented activities and investments.

A possible political economy explanation for this shift in policy position is the fact that the administration
faced legitimacy questions beginning 2004. Thus, there may have been less appetite to spend political
capital for difficult reforms like those in the AFMA involving a sensitive issue such as rice self-
sufficiency. On the other hand, political capital may be gained by being seen to strongly support
nationalistic sentiments attached to the country's staple. Meanwhile, political firefighting became more

6
    Policy Brief (PB-09-1), Senate Economic Planning Office. February 2009

                                                         5
frequent after the government's legitimacy was questioned. This shortened the planning horizon of the
government and increased their need for a more flexible public expenditure management system that
would be more responsive to short-term political needs. This may have driven the PEM reform agenda,
which calls for long-term and strategic rationalization of public resource use, to the bottom of the
government's priority initiatives.

The current system allows the DA to place its resources to effectively respond to the demands of natural
disasters, emergencies and political expectations. After the Senate hearings on the Fertilizer Scam7 and
after a Commission on Audit (COA) report on the Department was released, the DA decided to shift its
emphasis away from fertilizer and seed production support to post-harvest infrastructure support
including farm- to-market roads in 2009. This illustrates the highly discretionary nature of the budget
process operating through the "Banner/GMA" programs.

This ad hoc and "fire-fighting" system of resource allocation and interventions is, however, not conducive
to comprehensive strategic planning and building functional capacity in the DA. It is also neither an
efficient system for allocating resources to the line agencies and units of the DA nor for improving
governance through the assignment of management responsibility and budget accountability to line
agency and unit managers. The perpetuation of this system has seriously undermined strategic planning
and management accountability that will not be easy to restore.

There were, likewise, other factors and developments which exacerbated the implementation difficulties
of the project.

The SIM instrument, although deemed by the Oversight Agencies (and, perhaps, conceptually by the DA
itself) to be the appropriate mechanism for PEM reforms, was not fully appreciated by the implementing
units of the DA. There were problems getting them to enroll activities for financing using the loan
proceeds, especially if it was thought that regular budget could be obtained for such activities. This was
because it was perceived to provide no incremental resources, being part of the Department's budget
envelope, and because of the extra processing and paperwork required by the enrolment. The financial
management requirements of the loan required that activities to be funded with loan proceeds should be
identified in a work plan and budget which should actually be a sub-set of the DA's overall agreed work
plan and budget. It was agreed that this would constitute a "Program Agreement8 (PAg)" that would be
reviewed by the Bank and against which loan funds could be advanced. This and other additional
paperwork9, added to the reluctance to enroll eligible activities. The PAg was seen more as a way to
leverage funds that otherwise might not be obtained in a constrained budget situation.

In reality, the DBM appeared to be more amenable to increasing the budget envelope of agencies
implementing an NPS project given the built-in mechanisms for good public expenditure management.
Moreover, this budget increase would be more likely to be permanent since it involves the regular budget
envelope of the agency. Meanwhile, funds from a SIL would be above-budget, and, thus, would remain
only until the end of the project. For the same reason, resources from a SIL are more easily discernable as

7
  Distribution of fertilizer allocations to Congressmen by the Arroyo administration, through the DA, allegedly to
buy political support.
8
  Program Agreements were used in the case of staff agencies of the DA and Program Contracts were used for line
agencies and regional field units (RFUs). These provided the basis for advance payments from the loan, with
subsequent releases linked to liquidation of expenditures and achievement of outputs/outcomes.
9
  Both the SIL and the SIM loans require considerable additional monitoring and reporting from the government.
The transactions in a SIL loan are, however, relatively easier to track since it has a separate and distinct budget line
item. Meanwhile, SIM loan expenditures are embedded in the regular budget lines of the implementing department
and must be differentiated from items funded by the regular GAA.

                                                            6
an incremental budget. It should also be noted that the additional paperwork due to a SIM program would
not be much of an obstacle if there was a clear signal of commitment to the project by management. DA-
Regional Field Unit (RFU) 6, for instance, whose management was fully committed to the project,
successfully dealt with the extra processing requirements of the project and was able to fully tap project
resources.

The DA's budget constraint also eased as the government's fiscal position improved during the course of
project implementation and `pump-priming10" activities were undertaken from 2007 to 2008 to help
stimulate the economy. Consequently, there was even more reluctance to enroll activities by some units,
as from their perspective, the budget would be available anyway from regular funds. Over the life of the
project, there was a three-fold increase in the budget of the DA, from PhP14.5 B in 2005 to PhP46.9 B in
2009, with AFMA appropriations accounting for 71% to 82% of this. These, in effect, marginalized the
DFIMDP's leveraging power to achieve its development objective, as the proportion of the budget to be
funded through loan proceeds declined from about 4% (based on 2004 budget levels), to only some
0.02% of DA's cumulative budget over the five-year project period.

Yet another difficulty encountered, which greatly affected the level of market-related investment using
loan funds, was the multiplicity of cost-sharing arrangements with LGUs allowed by Government. The
policy of the NEDA for externally-funded projects, such as the DFIMDP, required a 50/50 cost sharing
with LGUs, even while the DA was permitted to provide much higher levels of financing, including
grants, when they use their regular budget. This greatly reduced the "enrolment" of sub-projects drawing
upon loan proceeds and undermined a key project objective of achieving a standardized and transparent
approach by which DA transferred resources to LGUs for devolved investments, e.g., farm-to-market
roads (FMRs), bridges, communal irrigation systems, post harvest facilities and other market
infrastructure. The mixed signals given by the NEDA here contributed to a significant underutilization of
loan funds.

It should also be noted that the DA had four successive changes in leadership during the six years of the
project. Orientation on and advocacy for the project needed to be renewed for each new DA Secretary
and the new sets of officials he would be bringing with him. It was, therefore, difficult for the DFIMDP
reform agenda to put deep roots into DA management under this environment of bureaucratic instability.

There were, likewise, capacity constraints in procurement and financial management among the DA
central and regional implementing units as well as with the participating LGUs. These posed considerable
challenges during project implementation (please refer to Section 2.4 for details).

More recently, the international rice crisis in 2008 saw a near tripling of world rice prices
at its peak in April 2008. While the domestic retail price of rice has since stabilized, it is
expected to remain high in real and nominal terms in the medium to long-term, well above
the low level reached at the start of the decade. This further deepened the determination of
the GoP to seek rice self-sufficiency given that it imports about 10 percent of its rice
consumption and is the single largest rice importer in the world. The DA's response to the
crisis was to intensify their rice production support through the launching of the "FIELDS"
Program (Fertilizer, Infrastructure and Irrigation, Extension and Education, Loans, Drying
and other post-harvest facilities, and Seeds) which provided farmers a package of support to

10
  "Pump-priming" refers to the Administration's practice of front-loading budget releases to agencies such as the
DA to help stimulate the economy. In 2006, the DA committed virtually its entire operational budget within the first
quarter, requiring a supplemental budget to cover the remainder of the year. "Pump-priming" in the DA was largely
used to fund purchase of seeds and fertilizers.

                                                         7
encourage further domestic production in rice as well as corn, livestock, fisheries and high-
value crops. The budget allocation for this program in 2009 doubled the DA's previous
budget allocation.

The mid-term review (MTR) conducted by the Bank team identified the following factors behind the
project's poor performance: i) the DA's non-implementation of the agreement for function-based resource
allocation; ii) continuing disconnect between DA's planning and budgeting; iii) the DA's imbalanced
implementation of the AFMA; iv) the DBM's delay in the implementation of MFO-based budgeting iv)
the DBM's inability to enforce financial discipline on the DA and; v) the NEDA's inadequate advocacy
of DFIMDP-related reforms contained in the Medium-term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP). Its
main conclusions are: i) The PDO remains relevant and consistent with government priorities; ii) the DA
has sufficient capacity to implement the project and the catch-up measures; iii) the catch-up measures and
modified procedures already in place are adequate to overcome the implementation difficulties to ensure
efficient flow of funds; and iv) there is a need for the DA to accelerate the pace and quality of physical
implementation to ensure catch-up. Meanwhile, the MTR conducted by the GoP, under the leadership of
the NEDA, basically supported the findings and conclusions of the Bank's review.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

The project provided for M&E to be conducted by the Program Monitoring and Evaluation Division
(PMED) of the DA's Planning Service, using the established functional linkages with line (e.g., Bureau of
Agricultural Statistics) and service (e.g., Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service, Policy Research
Service) agencies of the DA as well as the DA Regional Field Units (RFUs). This was to ensure better
mainstreaming and rationalization of the project M&E with the regular M&E system of the DA. Regular
reports on the project by component were to be made to the Project Advisory Board (PAB) to help guide
implementation.

Besides the immediate outcome indicators described in the Data Sheet, the M&E system is also supposed
to track secondary outcome indicators for the higher level project objectives of increased agricultural
competitiveness and rural incomes resulting from higher DA capacity to provide market-oriented
services. These indicators (and minimum end-project targets vis-à-vis baseline figures) include : i) 30
percent decrease in the number of export rejections at major destination ports; ii) 8 percent increase in the
number of private sector firms and producer associations engaged in processing, marketing and export of
agricultural produce; iii) 10 percent reduction in post-harvest losses in key products; and iv) 15 percent
increase in farm profitability and greater diversification in farm incomes in focus areas (covering both
those who are affiliated and not affiliated with associations/private sector groups assisted by the project).

There is a strong and positive link between the DFIMDP PDO and its KPIs. There is a direct causal link
between the amount and share of resources allocated for market-oriented services and the DA's capacity
to deliver them to its clients. Moreover, the state of this capacity is clearly manifested by the level of
satisfaction derived by clients from the services they received. Meanwhile, the intermediate outcomes
refer to the market-oriented services and investments the project was assisting the DA improve its
delivery capacity on.

There are also strong links between the intermediate and secondary outcome indicators and the higher
level objectives of the project. On the intermediate outcomes, improved regulatory services (e.g., sanitary
and phyto-sanitary) as well as market facilities, for instance, can effectively increase the volume of
agriculture exports indicating increased competitiveness. Meanwhile, investments in market-oriented
infrastructure, like FMRs, have proven to have high EIRRs and, therefore, significant positive impact on
                                                      8
rural incomes. On the secondary outcome indicators, the trends in export rejections and in the number of
participants in post-production agricultural activities are clear gauges of the state of agricultural
competitiveness. In the meantime, farm profitability and rural household incomes go hand in hand.
However, lower post-harvest losses do not automatically lead to higher rural incomes and greater
competitiveness.

M&E Implementation and Utilization

The main reporting on the project was done by the five "Clusters", not by the PMED. This made M&E
reporting on the project ad hoc and primarily undertaken in response to the discipline imposed by the
Bank through its regular six-monthly reviews of the project. This may have compromised the
mainstreaming and sustainability of the project M&E as well as the timeliness in the provision of decision
support information to the PAB.

There was no baseline information established and no regular monitoring of the secondary outcome
indicators throughout the project life. More specifically, the planned project area-specific farm household
income surveys were not conducted. As a result, the Bank team was forced to use, as proxy, regular
sources of information that are not specific to the project sites. The DA said that it attempted to undertake
the M&E of the project's secondary outcomes through an IDF-funded grant project (Strengthening of
Monitoring and Evaluation Capacities in Agriculture - TF056626). This initiative was, however,
unsuccessful due reportedly to, among others, the inadequate engagement and follow-through by the
participating LGUs.

The project M&E is a reflection of the DA's own M&E system which remains weak, both because of the
limited staff capacity of the unit and because of the limited value given to M&E besides the tracking of
the achievement of quantitative output targets. Related to this is the lack of financial accounting for how
the DA budget is spent vis-a- vis the outputs/outcomes identified in the budget. Financial accounting is
done only mechanistically against the lists of inputs/outputs, without much analysis or discipline imposed
to review the impact of such expenditures.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

For the most part, compliance with environmental safeguards was rated as satisfactory, and for social
safeguards, the rating was largely moderately satisfactory throughout. The latter experienced some
compliance and validation difficulties brought about by the late assignment and training of project focals
as well as inconsistencies and inadequacy of documentation in some project sites. The safe and reduced
use of chemicals and the environmental impact of market development investments were the major issues
on the environment. Meanwhile, the main social concern was for the inclusion of marginalized social
groups, like indigenous peoples (IPs), in the planning and benefits of the identified interventions. The bi-
annual Bank review teams monitored these aspects closely, although it was not until around mid-term in
the project that a significant number of such infrastructure projects began to get underway. Where
deficiencies were noted, these were acted upon by the DA-Regional Field Unit (RFU) concerned. A
refresher course on safeguard policies held for concerned RFU staff in October 2007 proved to be helpful
in maintaining awareness of the importance of compliance with safeguard policies.

There were no serious procurement issues under the project, with any deficiencies noted being corrected.
The procurement experience mirrored that of a number of other projects in the Philippines, whereby
considerable unfamiliarity was found to exist among Regional Field Units and LGUs with the
procurement requirements of Republic Act 9184 (Government Procurement Reform Act) which has, for
the most part, harmonized Bank and Government procurement guidelines. Considerable technical support
was, therefore, required on the part of the Bank during regular review missions to better acquaint

                                                      9
government staff with the requirements. With regard to procurement of large items, which did not start
until late 2008, unfamiliarity with the Government's own procedures again caused delays and the need to
repeat procurement processes in some instances.

The financial management requirements for the project were, for the most part, rated as unsatisfactory,
primarily because of delays in submitting reports and because of inadequate or incorrect documentation.
This was a constant source of interaction between the Bank and the DA-Financial Management Service
(FMS) throughout the project, and while deficiencies were corrected in due course, the difficulties
encountered would seem to reflect a culture of inadequate financial accountability11 in the DA, and, in
turn, inadequate oversight by DBM to ensure government's own accountability requirements are met.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The DA did not submit a Plan for Future Operations of the DFIMDP in line with Section 3.03 of the Loan
Agreement. The DFIMDP, nevertheless, was able to take small but significant steps (Section 3.5) which
can potentially be up-scaled and leveraged to re-start the momentum for reforms. Most of these
initiatives have also built-in mechanisms to ensure sustainability. For instance, a precondition for access
by LGUs and communities to DFIMDP funds for market-related infrastructure is the budget allocation for
the proper maintenance of these structures. This is being continued in similar engagements by the DA
with the LGUs like the WB-funded Mindanao Rural Development Project12 (MRDP). Through the
initiatives of the MRDP, the DA is now drafting an Administrative Order that will layout the parameters,
modes, guidelines and mechanisms for the execution of co-financing agreements with LGUs in financing
agriculture and fisheries extension projects. The Bureau of Agriculture and Fishery Product Standards
(BAFPS) was also made operational with the approval of its staffing by the DBM. In addition, market
development training was made intrinsic to the operations of the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI)
through the re-orientation of about 50 percent of its training programs towards market development.

The DA is also exploring and using other avenues to pursue the reforms that were not successfully
implemented in the DFIMDP. The Planning Service, for instance, is developing a Farmers' Registry, with
the assistance of the World Bank, in order to improve planning and its linkage with budgeting, and to
improve the effectiveness of DA operations. The registry will be used to improve targeting of its
assistance to the farm sector and as a platform for developing innovative delivery of services for farmers,
such as in extension, food safety, and support for adjustment and diversification of production.
Relatedly, the DA, along with the NEDA, DBM and the Philippine Institute of Development Studies
(PIDS), is cooperating with the Bank to disseminate the results and explore ways to institutionalize a tool

11
    An evaluation of the DA's FM system shows a significant need to strengthen its system of asset control and
reporting which has not substantially changed before, during and after project implementation as shown by: i) delays
in report submission to the regulatory agencies); ii) reporting delays and inadequacy of internal audit service; iii)
inadequacy of the chart of accounts to immediately meet the reporting requirements of DFIMDP and the lack
of/delay in the reconciliation between general ledger and subsidiary ledger accounts); iv) no apparent commitment
from the implementing units to implement DBM-prescribed procedures already in place and no explanations for
significant variances between actual expenditures and budget; v) absence of reconciliation between the physical
count and the subsidiary ledger with the general ledger balance; vi) operating policies and procedures covered by
manuals and administrative orders that are not strictly enforced by Management and complied to by implementing
agencies (IAs); vii) delays in reporting fund utilization and liquidation and in making account reconciliation between
the grantee and the DA as the grantor; viii) delays in the reports submitted by field offices for consolidation, which
in turn is affected by delays in the receipt of liquidation from grantees; and ix) the inability of the electronic New
Government Accounting System (e-NGAS) to generate the required project reports (FM Consultant's report, Annex
8).
12
   A project that serves as DA's platform to operationalize the decentralization of agriculture and fishery services in
line with the AFMA, Fisheries Code and the Local Government Code.

                                                         10
for the Monitoring and Evaluation of Agriculture Policies (MEAP). This tool identifies and measures the
impact of agriculture policies and programs using the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) framework for welfare impact and incidence measurement. The DA has also
included Agribusiness Development as a priority area in the GoP's programming discussions with the
WB. The Department is, therefore, actively engaged in the Bank's implementation of its Agribusiness
Support AAA Project which seeks to improve the competitiveness of Philippine agriculture by identifying
new approaches through which the private sector can assume a leading role in agribusiness development.
This will be achieved by facilitating and supporting a range of private-public partnerships (including
LGUs) as a means to both catalyze and demonstrate more effective models/ approaches for development
of the sector. Innovative business models, based on a demand-driven approach, will be designed and
discussed with key stakeholders to more effectively link government policy and expenditure with
business plans developed through representative private organizations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO is deemed relevant since it addresses the need for market-oriented public services and
investments which many sector studies and analyses have identified as one of the major prerequisites to
the modernization of Philippine agriculture and fisheries. It is consistent with the prevailing sector
development policy framework reflected in the AFMA and in the 2001-2004 Medium Term Philippine
Development Plan13 (MTPDP) and in the current (2004-2010) MTPDP14. It is, thus, also coherent with the
Bank assistance strategies of "sharpening non-lending and lending support to address the declining
competitiveness of Philippine agriculture (2003-2005 CAS)" and " achieving more inclusive growth by
supporting the GoP to improve the investment climate through an enabling business environment that
promotes competitiveness, productivity and employment, especially in ... agriculture and fisheries..
(2010-2012 CAS).

The design of the project is also relevant to the specific reform agenda that the project sought to promote:
the AFMA and PEM reforms. The features of the four components of the project closely mirrored the
directions and priorities of AFMA. The project was also built around the broader public expenditure
reforms which were initiated around the time the project was formulated. It was strongly supported by
the Oversight Agencies as a means to help "spear-head" public expenditure reforms to improve linkages
between planning and budget allocation, and in the timely reporting of outcomes through performance
indicators, rather than as quantitative inputs (objects of expenditure).

The choice of lending instrument was also appropriate given the parameters provided by the 2003-2005
CAS and by the reforms to be implemented. The DFIMDP is a National Program Support (NPS) project
funded by a Sector Investment and Maintenance (SIM) loan from the Bank. This instrument is consistent
with the goals and mechanisms of the PEM reforms (see Section 2.1). A Sector Investment Loan (SIL)
could also have been able to help achieve the PDO. However, being a non-regular budget fund source,

13
   One million new jobs in the sector shall be created through the implementation of the Agriculture and Fisheries
Modernization Act or AFMA of 1997 and the Fisheries Code of 1998, specifically targeting public investments in
the identified key Strategic Agriculture and Fisheries Development Zones (Modernizing Agriculture and Fisheries
Chapter).
14
   The agriculture and fisheries sector is envisioned to be increasingly competitive and diversified, driven by
productive, profitable producers/farmers integrated to the markets by efficient supply/value chains and driven by
private investments in a business climate of strong public-private partnerships (Agribusiness Chapter).


                                                        11
this type of loan may not have been able to sustain the increase in the budget for market-oriented services
and investment beyond the project and may not have mainstreamed the PEM reforms in the regular
planning, budgeting and programming processes and mechanisms of the DA. The possibility of beginning
with a smaller loan utilizing the APL instrument had been discussed, but reportedly Government did not
want to commit to this, and a smaller loan was felt to be inadequate to leverage the level of reforms
needed.

Discussions were held at virtually every review mission as to whether the project was appropriately
designed, or whether additional modifications were needed. When the project became rated as marginally
unsatisfactory, the possibility of loan cancellation was also a frequent topic among the Bank, the
Oversight Agencies and the DA. In each instance, however, the consistent view was that: i) the reform
measures addressed under the project remained central to the Government's overall public expenditure
reform agenda; ii) that the goals of AFMA, on which the project was based, remained relevant; and iii)
the project design and PDO remained consistent with these reform measures and goals.

Project implementation, however, became difficult in the face of waning support of the administration for
the AFMA and PEM reforms. An ever-increasing priority was given by the DA to achieving production
targets, particularly of rice and corn, due probably more to political than developmental considerations.
This thrust became even stronger after the commodity price spikes in 2008. The PEM reforms were also
placed at the backburner. The urgency for these reforms was diluted by the improvement of the GoP's
fiscal position during the project period. This led to considerable increases in the DA's budget which
consequently tempered the leveraging power of DFIMDP resources for reforms. Moreover, the prevailing
resource management system at the DA is a good conduit for channeling resources flexibly for the supply
of inputs, goods, infrastructure and provision of subsidies. It, therefore, provided a convenient mechanism
for the DA management to respond rapidly and flexibly to natural disasters, disease outbreaks etc., as well
as to pressures for funding coming both from the Legislative and Executive branches of government.
Successive DA Secretaries and senior managers, confronted with pressures and well entrenched political
expectations, quickly found that the existing system serves them well and cannot be easily modified.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The objective (PDO) of the project, to assist in strengthening the capacity of the DA to provide market-
oriented services to increase agricultural competitiveness and rural incomes, was not achieved based on
its Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The KPIs called for a fundamental shift in the way the DA
conducts its business, as measured by i) a 15 percentage point average increase in the proportion of
budgetary resources for DA's core functions supporting market development services; and ii) a 35 percent
increase in client satisfaction with the DA's delivery of market information, development services and
market-related investments, from the baseline to the end of the project period.

From a baseline of 32% of the DA budget in 2004, the trend in the budget share of market-oriented
services and investments was positive during the first three years of the project (32 to 36%), but it
subsequently declined throughout the rest of the project period. The increasingly production-oriented
approach by the DA to agriculture and fisheries development plunged the budget of market-oriented
services to lower than the baseline share by the end of the project (25% in 2009). The argument could be
made that, because of the large and unanticipated budget increase, the actual funding for market-related
services did increase, i.e., from PhP 4.6 B in 2005 to PhP 11 B in 2009, compared with PhP 6.8 B which
would have corresponded to the indicative target of 47%, had the budget remained at its 2005 level. This,
however, was explicitly discussed during project appraisal and negotiation, with the understanding that
the indicative target should be kept as a proportion of the budget as an indicator of DA's commitment to
adjust the balance of priorities in line with the goals of AFMA. Only the budget share for infrastructure


                                                    12
(15.2 percent in 2009), among the 7 market-oriented expenditure item of the DA, was able meet its
indicatory budget share of 10 percent by project end.

The initial Client Satisfaction survey results showed only a very low level of satisfaction with DA
services, and little overall knowledge of the DA's functions. The follow-up survey, which is supposed to
be undertaken at the end of the project, is expected to be available only by December 2010 due to delayed
action on the part of Government and bidding difficulties15. Disagreement between the NEDA and the DA
on who should take the lead16 in this activity delayed GoP action until after the end of the project.
Nevertheless, the DA should be commended for adhering to this commitment even though project funds
could no longer be tapped for this purpose. However, with production-oriented services and investments
crowding out the budget share of its market-oriented counterparts, it is unlikely that there will be much, if
any, improvement in client awareness and satisfaction, much less meeting the 35 percent improvement
target. The results of the economic analysis (Section 3.3 and Annex 3) and two rounds of stakeholder
consultations (Section 3.6 and Annex 6) also support the likelihood that not much, if any, improvement in
client satisfaction could be expected.

On the other hand, most of the target Intermediate Outcome were either achieved or partially achieved,
with only one intermediate outcome not achieved. The 4 fully achieved target intermediate outcomes
were delivered by Component 2: Market Development Services ­ (i) standardize the use of the Operations
Manual; Component 3: Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market on Market
Development - ii) establishment of a web-based regulatory information system and iii) increase by some
20% in the number of accredited private sector operations); and by Component 4: Market-linked
Technology Development and Dissemination ­ iv) implementation of a Competitive Research Grants
Program. The intermediate outcome that was partially achieved was the operationalization of the AFMIS
in Component 1: Support for Market Development Services. Due to delays in its implementation, it was
unlikely that the target of 75% of the farmers in the focus areas of the project benefiting from the AFMIS
by the end of the project was met. Meanwhile, component 3 failed to deliver full-cost pricing applied for
regulatory services. Specific accomplishments vis-à-vis these key performance indicators (KPIs) on
Intermediate Outcomes are provided in Annex 2.

Notwithstanding the failure of the project to achieve its overall project development objective (PDO), the
creditable performance in achieving specific intermediate outcomes shows that, when funding was made
available, the DA units/agencies did have the capacity to effectively implement the project. Therefore, it
cannot be said that lack of technical implementation capacity was the cause of the unsatisfactory
performance of the project. However, the lack of consistent and full support by the Administration for the
project and the reforms it was promoting prevented the progress achieved in the intermediate outcomes
from being sufficiently scaled up and mainstreamed to attain the PDO.

3.3 Efficiency

The DFIMDP was efficient in its actual investments on infrastructure sub-projects. It was, however,
inefficient in the overall use of project funds due to the i) significant underutilization of project resources
and the consequently large commitment charges incurred; ii) economic and financial opportunities and
benefits it has foregone; and iii) lack of any appreciable impact on the PDO and its various outcome
indicators.

15
   The Client Satisfaction Survey results was originally targeted to be available by June 2010. However, the winning
bidder backed out and DA has to repeat the bidding process.
16
   Section 6 j (Loan Conditions and Covenants), page 10 of the PAD states that "...DA would undertake and submit
an external terminal evaluation conducted under the overall direction of the NEDA, in collaboration with the
DBM..."

                                                        13
Infrastructure Sub-Project Level

At appraisal, no economic and financial analysis was carried out for the activities under the DFIMDP
given the budget support and demand-driven nature of the sub-projects to be funded by the loan. Instead,
the PAD only referred to a list of permissible sub-projects that would be associated with estimates of ex-
ante EIRRs ranging between 16% and 18%. At the ICR stage, economic and financial analyses were
carried out for some of the infrastructure sub-projects implemented out under Component 2: Market
Development Investments, particularly in Regions 6 and 7 where the bulk of the component resources
were spent. Specifically, these covered the construction/ rehabilitation of farm-to-market roads (FMRs),
"Bagsakan" or trading centers and other facilities, as well as the acquisition of hauling trucks. These
infrastructure sub-projects, with the only exception of the rehabilitation of footpaths, posted high EIRRs,
especially for FMRs (Table 5, Annex 3). They exceeded the previously mentioned hurdle range of EIRRs
established during project preparation. It should be noted, however, that the total amount spent in
Component 2 represented only 8.1% of the total project cost at closure compared to the 32.2% estimated
at appraisal. Given the high returns estimated for the sub-projects executed under this component, it is
clear that the inability to fully utilize the project's proceeds resulted in a huge value of foregone
opportunities in terms of improved profitability and access to markets by farmers.

Project Level

Section 3.2 and Annex 2 showed that, in spite of significant achievements in the area of intermediate
outcomes, the PDO was not met due to the back-tracking on DA resource allocation commitments and the
consequent gross underutilization of project resources. Only 49% of the loan was disbursed, while the
DA actually spent many times that amount on activities that would have been eligible for reimbursement
from the loan. This was because of an unwillingness to complete the documentation by the DA-FMS and
the implementing units, especially since the DBM had already released the budget to the DA. This raises
additional governance issues, particularly since DBM agreed to the request from FMS for additional staff
for such work under the project. As a result, loan commitment charges paid by the Government reached
nearly US$ 1.0 M.

The overall efficiency of the project in the use of resources was also qualitatively evaluated in terms of
the progress made in achieving the PDO through its various outcome indicators. It should be noted that
the secondary outcomes expected from the project involve increases in both agricultural competitiveness
and in rural incomes. The KPIs for these secondary outcomes are i) decrease in the number of export
rejections at major destination ports; ii) increase in the number of private sector firms and producer
associations engaged in processing, marketing and export of agricultural produce; iii) reduced post-
harvest losses for key products; and iv) increase in farm profitability and greater diversification in farm
incomes in the project focus areas. As mentioned in Section 2.3, the DA failed to adequately monitor
these indicators. Nevertheless, except for indicators of firm participation and farm income diversification,
some data on the other secondary outcome indicators were secured. These showed that, overall, not much,
if any, progress was exhibited by these indicators during the project period.

Data from the European Union (EU) shows that, during the project implementation period, the number of
detentions and rejections of Philippine agri-food exports has increased. Part of this increase can be
attributed to the higher volume of agri-food exports and, for a specific project sub-period, the tightening
of the safety standards imposed by the EU on agri-food imports. On the other hand, the instances of
rejection and detention increased by the same rate of increase in exports. Thus, it appears that the project
has been unable to strengthen the quality assurance system for market development as originally planned.
Given the impact that rejections and detentions of single shipments have on the export performance of the


                                                    14
whole sector, the failure to achieve the targets in this area is likely to have caused a substantial amount of
losses by preventing an improved access to foreign markets.



Estimates on the post harvest losses for palay (or paddy rice) and corn were derived from the survey data
of the Bureau of Post-harvest Research and Extension (BPHRE). These showed that, in the case of palay,
there was a marginal decline in the losses since 1994. The drop in losses in storage was somehow negated
by the deterioration in the losses in the other operations. In contrast, there was a substantial decline in the
post-harvest losses in corn, with most coming from storage and shelling.

Meanwhile, the Bureau of Agricultural Statistics (BAS) data from the Cost and Returns Surveys for a
large number of products show a tendency towards improved profitability of the import-competing
products and worsening profitability of the exportables during the project implementation period. These
trends are quite consistent with the focus on self-sufficiency pursued by the DA to achieve food security
which, being focused on rice, corn and other import-competing crops, contrasted with the promotion of
competitiveness of the whole Philippine agri-food system.

It should be noted that, in distinction with the declining trend in the total share of Philippine exports in the
US, EU and Japanese markets, the share of Philippine agri-food exports in these markets remains steady,
in spite of the lack of government support. This underscores the comparative advantage the country has in
this sector, from which strong dividends could be derived from more vigorous market-oriented public
sector assistance.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory

The project design was consistent with the avowed development framework and priorities of the GoP as
well as the CAS of the Bank for the Philippines for the sector. However, the failure of the project to bring
about the PDO of changing the way the DA does business by shifting its resources and efforts towards
market-oriented services and investments was given considerable weight in determining the overall
rating. The project has also been inefficient in the use of its resources through gross underutilization
resulting in, what most likely are, substantial forgone economic and financial benefits. Thus, in the end, it
failed to provide any appreciable contribution to the improvement of agricultural competitiveness and
rural incomes in support of AFMA. Nevertheless, it is acknowledged that the project was able to deliver
most of its target intermediate outcomes that, if sustained and considerably expanded, will contribute to
improving the service delivery of the DA.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Institutional Change/Strengthening of the DA

There were a number of significant developments supported under the project that were not captured by
the key performance indicators. These were, however, well documented in the more detailed reporting
done through the various Mission Aide Memoires, notably: i) approval for and staffing of the Bureau of
Agriculture and Fishery Product Standards (BAFPS), which was a prerequisite for getting that agency to
an operational level, ii) development, approval and subsequent implementation of a first phase action plan
for strengthening regulatory laboratory and quarantine functions, iii) construction and rehabilitation of
laboratory facilities and equipment for BAFPS, Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI), and Bureau of Plant
Industry (BPI), and iv) the Agricultural Training Institute's (ATI) support for market development
training increased with over 50% of its training activities benefiting from this. These are small but


                                                      15
significant steps towards improving the institutional capacity of the Department to respond to demands
for services supporting agricultural markets development.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The IL-ICR conducted two separate rounds of stakeholder consultations to both obtain feedback and to
validate the findings of the IL-ICR team. The first round of discussion involved a wide range of mostly
DFIMDP participants including i) DA Management, Regional, Bureau and Unit staff of the DA, ii)
senior staff of the oversight agencies (DBM, NEDA and DOF), iii) legislators; iv) staff units of the
Congress (Congressional Oversight Committee for Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization (COCAFM),
Committee on Appropriations, and the Congressional Planning and Budget Department (CPBD)) and the
Senate (SEPO, and the Legislative Budget Research and Monitoring Office (LBRMO)), v) farmer
organizations, vi) civil society groups concerned with agricultural sector issues, and vii) agribusiness,
processors and exporters. The second round of discussions involved a workshop held on September 25,
2009 with the key agencies and individuals with strong influence over the direction of agriculture
development strategies and policies. The feedback obtained from the extensive consultation process has
provided a wealth of information and has been used by the team to validate the key findings presented in
this IL-ICR. Noticeably, there was a strong consonance in the views expressed and, despite the
sensitivities, a willingness to discuss the issues and way forward in an open and constructive manner.
The key feedback obtained is summarized below;

      i) Relevance of AFMA: There was unanimity in the view that, although not everything that
              everybody would want, the goals and directions of AFMA remain relevant and a high
              priority remains attached to its implementation.
      ii)     Oversight of AFMA implementation: A general consensus emerged that insufficient
              analysis had been done on AFMA implementation or lack thereof, which, in turn, had
              resulted in a failure by Legislators and Oversight Agency staff "to ask the right questions".
              A lack of technical capacity in key units with responsibility for such analysis was thought
              to be at the center of the problem.
      iii)    Management of the DA: A high level of frustration continues to exist among the staff of
              the DA at the Bureau, RFU and Unit level with the budgetary system which channels the
              bulk of funds through GMA Programs, primarily for production support, and which
              prevents core mandates to be effectively planned and implemented. The prevailing
              perception is that systems in the DA operate primarily to respond to political priorities at
              the expense of its core functions. Concerns were also expressed with the quality of plans
              and programs coming from the DA which would require a more bottom-up approach. The
              counter-point from within the DA is that planning and programming mean very little, as
              budgetary decisions are made at the top based on political priorities. These points of view
              would seem symptomatic of more fundamental issues in the way in which work
              programming and accountability for results are conducted in the DA.
      iv)     Civil Society Feedback: The main concern expressed was with the lack of transparency
              and availability of information about the DA's operations. This coupled with the lack of
              effectively functioning mechanisms through which civil society could interact with the DA
              resulted in civil society groups feeling they lacked sufficient information to engage
              effectively with the DA.
      v)      Agro-Industry/Processors and Exporters: While those interviewed expressed satisfaction
              with their involvement with the DA, particularly in trade fairs, it was apparent that only a
              very small number of firms were involved. Collaboration seemed to be based more on

                                                    16
              personal knowledge and person-to-person contacts than on any broader institutional
              approach.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Rating: High

The failure of Government to implement AFMA some 12 years after its enactment, coupled with the
failure to take advantage of the DFIMD project, which was designed specifically to facilitate
implementation of the Act, clearly poses a continuing risk that the Philippines will be unable, even in the
medium term, to strengthen the capacity of the Department of Agriculture to provide market-oriented
services to increase agricultural competitiveness and rural incomes. As noted previously, there is, at a
minimum, a need for renewed consciousness and re-affirmation of the goals, expectations and
implementing procedures of AFMA, by both the Legislative and Executive branches of government.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance:

5.1 Bank Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Rating - Moderately Satisfactory
Preparation of the project spanned some 17 months and included extensive feasibility studies conducted
through a consultant firm hired by the DA. Collaboration with FAO also led to a Technical Assistance
Grant being implemented in Region 10, the results of which validated the benefits of providing services
that strengthened market facilities and linkages between farmers, traders and agri-business. The Bank
team, in conjunction with the DA, conducted extensive consultations with private sector agro-
processor/exporter, farmer and Indigenous People's (IP) groups which confirmed the approach being
proposed. It is apparent also that care was taken to ensure support and consensus from DA management,
DBM, and NEDA on the scope of the project and on the proposed reform package.

The key concerns raised by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) were that the project design did not do
enough to prescribe reductions in sector subsidies and staffing, and QAG reviewers would have liked a
more ambitious program addressing such things as credit needs, creation of cooperatives and assistance to
agribusiness enterprises. QAG reviewers also considered the PDO to be very modest for a SIM type loan,
and suggested a need for a clearer linkage between expenditures and the desired outcomes. In response,
the project preparation team agreed that the project scope was indeed modest but, nevertheless, strategic
since it focused on critical public expenditure reforms which were potentially catalytic. It was also
pointed out that country experience from previous projects cautions against overambitious PDOs. The
team also explained that the market-oriented nature of the services and investments to be fostered by the
project was expected to achieve the desired outcomes. Given the team's explanation, the QAG rated
project preparation as "Moderately Satisfactory".

Nevertheless, the slow implementation of AFMA in the first 6 years leading up to the project and the
dropping of the planned condition of negotiation to restructure the system of budgeting though the
"Banner/GMA programs" should have raised more concern at the Bank about the level of commitment to
the strategy and the PDO. Both the Bank and the Oversight Agencies, however, believed that, through the
planned public expenditure reforms and liquidity support, the DA could be sufficiently induced to modify
its procedures for planning and resource allocation. This proved to be an overly ambitious expectation
especially since MFO-based budgeting never took off during implementation.

It is debatable, however, as to whether any further analysis would have materially altered the decision of
the Oversight Agencies and Bank management to proceed with the project, given the significant
antecedents in place and the level of commitment expressed by the responsible Government agencies.

                                                    17
There is also little to suggest that additional loan conditionalities would have made a difference to the
project outcome, unless this had become a sticking point preventing the loan from proceeding. Given the
amount of "back-tracking" on agreements during implementation, additional conditionalities might well
have been unfulfilled and become another source of contention during implementation. Moreover,
although there were small "pockets of resistance" within the DA against the project, it was really the
waning of senior management support for the AFMA and PEM reforms during implementation which
effectively undermined the project. As previously mentioned, this change of heart probably occurred
mainly due to the legitimacy problems faced by the administration (Section 2.2). This kind of change in
the political environment cannot be anticipated.

On balance, therefore, while the assessment of Government's commitment to implement the project was
clearly underestimated, it would seem that the Bank's preparation efforts, assessments of relevance, and
the project design were comprehensive and done with due diligence and appropriateness.

(b) Quality of Supervision. Rating ­ Moderately Satisfactory
There was close and responsive supervision of the project by the Bank team. It was marked by a high
degree of coordination, not only with the implementing agencies, but also with the partner and Oversight
Agencies. Comprehensive Bank review missions, including field visits and cluster-by-cluster reviews of
project components, were conducted twice each year of the project. There was also regular, monthly and
(even) weekly, follow up reviews in many instances, as the project was managed from the Manila Office.
The mid-term review (in the project files), complemented by an independent review under the direction of
NEDA, was particularly comprehensive. The findings of the two reports (the Bank's and Government's)
were mutually reinforcing in terms of their assessment of the progress and status of the PDO and project
implementation, and the factors behind project performance. There was also a very high level of input
from the Bank's procurement, financial and safeguards staff throughout the project, both in ensuring
fiduciary requirements were met, and in providing training for DA staff both centrally and in Regional
Field Units (RFUs). Feedback during the IL-ICR suggests the "technical support" provided by the Bank
on procurement, financial and safeguard issues was very much welcomed, and will undoubtedly have
benefits beyond the project.

Supervision missions correctly identified and documented the implementation issues, and Aide Memoires
shared with Government were transparent, frank and direct in highlighting concerns. In terms of adequacy
of supervision inputs related to M&E, however, the Bank team did not appear to have sufficiently taken
the DA to task on its M&E of project indicators. As a result, the secondary outcome indicators specified
in the PAD's Results Framework were not fully monitored. An M&E specialist was part of the Bank team
only during the first half of the implementation period.

The significant issues with project implementation were discussed with Bank management throughout the
project. Almost from the outset, the Bank team raised questions and was open to a redesign of the
project. Beginning in 2006, the Bank team also began raising questions as to whether partial or full loan
cancellation should be considered. The mutually agreed "Action/ Decision Matrices" in each Aide
Memoire along with "Performance Monitoring Plans" should have been effective tools for guiding project
implementation had these been followed, as earlier committed to by Government.

A critical question, however, is, if the implementation constraints and the corrective actions have been
correctly identified and were clear to all concerned, why did the Bank team continue to give the
implementing agency the benefit of doubt in spite of repeated reneging of remedial actions agreed during
the missions? Was there significant misjudgment by the team in not drawing a line especially during the
MTR so that further backsliding by the DA would have triggered a unilateral call by the Bank to either
suspend or even cancel the loan?


                                                   18
As noted earlier, the DA had four instances of changes of Secretaries during the project period. In order to
maintain good long-term client relations, the Bank opted to give the different incumbent Secretaries the
benefit of the doubt whenever they expressed renewed commitment by the Department to implement the
needed project implementation reforms. Moreover, the MTR was delayed by more than a year due to a
political deadlock that led to the non-passage of the national budget for 2 years (2005 and 2006 had re-
enacted budgets). This external factor stymied the DA from substantially moving the project forward,
despite their willingness to do so, given the rigidities of a re-enacted budget. After this deadlock, it was
felt that the DA needed another 6 to 9 months to implement the remedial actions and to turn the project
around since the new DFIMDP Program Agreements (PAg) can only be programmed at the start of every
budget cycle. Consequently, the MTR, which should have started in September 2006, commenced in
October 2007 and ended in May 2008, with only over a year left until the end of the project. At this stage,
loan cancelation would not have been a practical option especially with the Oversight Agencies
adamantly against it. The DBM, in particular, felt that a DFIMDP loan cancellation would give the
wrong signal to the rest of the bureaucracy and exacerbate the rough sailing the overall PEM reforms
were already undergoing17. Moreover, the Bank cannot normally cancel a loan unilaterally without
agreement from the government. Good long-term client relations and engagement with the DA, and the
GoP in general, would be better served if the project was left to run its remaining course. Loan
suspension was also not a viable option for similar reasons. Nevertheless, the Bank served notice to the
DA that it would not support its planned request for a year's extension of the project to more fully utilize
project funds when it became clear in June 2008 that full compliance to the MTR agreements would not
be made.

Should the Bank team have also actively explored the possibility of project restructuring during the
MTR? Given the implementing agency's complaints against the SIM and preference for a SIL, and the
slow-moving PEM reforms, the possibility of downscaling the PDO, from changing the way the DA
conducts its business to a simpler investment program for market-oriented investments and services,
could have been examined and discussed with government. It should, however, be noted that the
consensus during the MTR was that the project could still be turned around with its PDO intact and as an
NPS if only the agreed remedial actions would be fully implemented. The Bank and the Oversight
Agencies, at that time, was of the opinion that, if MTR agreed actions were done, as committed by
Government, there would be a strong case for an18-month extension, which can then help the Project
catch up with its original physical and disbursement targets and finally achieve its original PDO. It
should also be noted that Government, mainly the Oversight Agencies, have a strong aversion to
restructure PDOs, especially of foreign funded projects, since this is seen as a waste of resources and
circumventing the original ICC approval process.

Nonetheless, it may, perhaps, be said that Bank management could have taken a stronger position with
Government on the slow pace of loan utilization and on the repeated back-tracking of "remedial
measures" agreed during implementation. Bank management could have called the Oversight Agencies
to task by pointing out that their appeal to the Bank to continue the project because of the impact on the
overall PEM reforms would have been more credible if it was backed up by disciplinary action (of loan
cancellation) over the DA. This higher level Bank (management) intervention could have triggered an
earlier, as well as a more active and concerted response from the Oversight Agencies and the DA to
address implementation problems. It is debatable, however, whether such Bank action would have led to


17
   Please see in the project files, the DBM Secretary's letter on April 11, 2007 to the DA Secretary stating that "the
DBM supports the project and believes that the DFIMDP initiative strongly responds to the current fiscal reforms of
the government". The DBM Secretary also encouraged the DA to continue the project and hoped that the
implementation difficulties and procedural problems being experienced by the DA can be addressed.


                                                         19
any significant modification in DA's implementation of the project, or to any significant difference in the
project outcome, given the prevailing country political environment. When Government reneged again
on its MTR commitments in June 2008, it would be recalled that, due to the global food crisis, the
Philippine Government resorted to buying rice at any cost as a policy response, which further increased
rice prices globally. At that time, the Bank considered it more prudent to continue the engagement with
Government to reform their food (rice) policy, through the agricultural expenditure reforms being pursued
under DFIMDP, rather than convincing Government to cancel the project, which has served as the
operational basis for such food policy discussions18.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance. Rating - Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank team exercised due diligence in establishing the technical foundation of the project and in
ensuring stakeholder participation and ownership by closely coordinating with the relevant government
counterparts and other stakeholders during project preparation. They also properly identified the major
risks attendant to the project and the remedial actions needed. Nevertheless, in hindsight, the team
overestimated government commitment to the target reforms and the PDO. It is, however, doubtful
whether the political circumstances that led to this backsliding in commitment could have been fully
anticipated. The Bank team was also conscientious in working with the government and other partners in
facilitating the implementation of the project. They clearly and accurately identified the operational
bottlenecks and the appropriate remedial responses that should be undertaken, and were responsive to the
assistance requests and needs of the implementers. The team was, however, constrained from taking a
stronger stance against the DA's repeated reneging of the remedial action agreements by external factors
and by due consideration to good long-term client relations.

5.2 Borrower Performance: Rating - Unsatisfactory

(a) Government Performance: Rating - Moderately Unsatisfactory
As noted in Section 3.6, a number of systemic deficiencies spanning both the Legislative and Executive
branches of Government have contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome of the DFIMD project. The
systemic problems are not new and go beyond the scope of the project. Their collective impact, however,
became more evident through the attempt to implement reforms that, individually, were well focused and
designed in accordance with AFMA. Nevertheless, commitments and sustained support for the project by
the Oversight Agencies, particularly DBM and NEDA, should have been backed up by stronger actions.
Notably, the failure of DBM to introduce MFO-based budgeting or to insist on full and effective
implementation of the public expenditure reforms/procedures in its own guidelines, contributed to the
poor performance of the project. Even so, DBM was proactive and supportive in seeking remedial actions
throughout the project's implementation. It took steps to provide the full budget cover for project
investments identified in the annual Program Agreement, and down-loaded funds to the DA as soon as
these were disbursed by the Bank. Additional staff was approved by DBM for the Finance Service to
accommodate their concern that they were understaffed to manage the project accounts, and DBM also
introduced the "tagging" of resources for the project to respond to concerns that resources needed to be
identified in the budget. Nevertheless, the DBM was unable to undertake the level of strategic analysis or
to impose the level of discipline needed in accordance with its mandate. NEDA also, in conducting its
monitoring functions, did not effectively highlight or call attention to the strategic issues inherent in the
DA's annual GAA submissions. The mid-term review and project completion reviews (PCRs), carried
out under the collaboration of the DA and the NEDA were, nevertheless, well conducted and forthright in

18
  The Bank eventually processed a Development Policy Operation (Ln. No. 76150) financed under the Global Food
Facility in December 2008, in the amount of US$200million, which was originally anchored on the pursuit of social
protection and food policy reforms. Eventually, due to the difficult political environment, the Government did not
include food policy reforms in the final matrix of agreed actions.


                                                       20
their findings. Clearly, the inability of both DBM and NEDA to fully meet commitments and
expectations was constrained by the Administration's increasing prioritization of the need to achieve
production targets of rice and corn and to maintain the DA's flexibility in resource allocation. Overall,
therefore, adequate oversight and follow-through by the Borrower was lacking.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: Rating - Unsatisfactory
The various implementing units of the DA sought to facilitate project implementation under a difficult
environment. In particular, the five DFIMDP Component Clusters, 19especially the Technology Cluster,
regularly met and operated in spite of the various setbacks of the project. This is where the "ownership"
and strong support of the project was most evident and reflected at the staff level of the DA. They see the
project as a way to provide funding for the core functions of the DA, rather than through the more
uncertain GMA/Banner program process. DA-RFU 6 was also able to fully utilize their access to the loan
in spite of the additional "paper work" inherent in a SIM loan. Overall, the DA's implementing units were
able to deliver most of their target project output. These were, however, insufficient to meet the key
performance and development objectives of the project.

Responsibility for the unsatisfactory performance of the project, for the most part, lies with DA
management. They didn't see fit to continue their commitment to AFMA and PEM reforms and to the
PDO mainly due to the changing priorities of the Administration. As a result, DA management continued
to renege on agreed actions to improve project implementation contained in the "Action/ Decision
Matrices" of each mission Aide Memoire and in the "Performance Monitoring Plans". The suggestion of
the DOF that these "Action/Decision Agreements" be signed by the DA management and Oversight
Agencies was followed. DA management, however, still found it necessary to back-track on the
agreements20. If indeed these agreements had been acted upon, the project outcome would have been
different.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance. Rating - Unsatisfactory
The Oversight Agencies and various officials and implementing units of the DA earnestly sought to
address operational bottlenecks in order to effectively implement the project and achieve the PDO. Their
efforts were, however, undermined by the policy priority shifts of Administration and DA management.
This was evident in the repeated reneging of commitments and agreements made in the course of project
implementation.




19
    Planning cluster, Market Development cluster, Regional Market Investment cluster, Regulatory cluster and
Technology cluster ­groupings of inter-related DA implementing and service units formed initially to help guide the
preparation of the project, but which continued to function for the most part as effective inter-agency/unit
coordinating mechanisms throughout the project.
20
   Important reform directives not fully implemented include: i) Secretary Yap instructed all regions to adopt the
DFIMDP Operations Manual for financing Market Development Investments for all infrastructure subprojects
which are to be funded under the GMA programs through a memo issued on October 17, 2006; and ii) In the DA's
official Budget Strategy submission in July 2006, it was stated that: a) the DA shall "reduce(s) the share of GMA
programs from 24% to 20%, while immediately transferring allocations for regular and program activities enrolled
in DFIMDP to the regular and other AFMP allocations..."( ref. DA budget strategy submitted to DBM July, 2006);
and b) for 2007 and beyond, the DA committed to propose budgetary allocations for GMA production programs
which will only cover direct production support investments, with the corresponding non-production support
investments to be incorporated into the regular budget allocations of concerned DA implementing agencies. (ref.
Aide Memoire July2006 (para 25)


                                                        21
6. Lessons Learned

SIM vs. SIL ­ National Program Support (NPS) projects, which employ a SIM loan instrument, are used
to implement sector and PEM reforms in the Philippines. As an instrument for difficult institutional
reforms, the DFIMDP experience shows that an NPS would be appropriate and effective only when the
client-agency, especially its management, is fully committed and operationally prepared to implement and
mainstream these reforms during the project period. Considerable risks can also be reduced if i) the direct
control of the Office of the Secretary over the Department's budget is not overwhelming and ii) PEM
reforms are well underway, such as MFO-based budgeting and FM systems improvements, even before
the start of the project. As previously mentioned, the DA's commitment to reforms were later proven to
be overestimated.

Meanwhile, for those agencies who do not yet show readiness to undertake such wholesale reforms, more
focused SIL-type projects would appear to be more appropriate, not only in terms of easier
implementation, but also in laying the ground work for future institutional reforms (please refer below to
the section on the Bank's future engagement in the sector). For these agencies, project design should be
kept as simple and as focused as possible for better operational execution. The DFIMDP was trying to
implement two sets of reforms: the AFMA and the PEM reforms. This may have introduced too many
variables, including those beyond the control of the implementing agency. For instance, MFO-based
budgeting, which is a DBM commitment, did not push through. The DFIMDP was designed in such a
way that its effectiveness is strongly dependent on DBM following through with its commitment.

Client readiness for institutional reforms ­ When can it be said that a client-agency is ready for
institutional reforms? The DFIMDP experience showed that it is best if, besides the establishment of a
conducive and coherent legal and policy framework at the minimum, the client can also already show that
this framework is already being operationalized. This is especially true for Philippines which has shown a
systemic dichotomy between policy and operations, especially in the agriculture and fisheries sector.
Without strong evidence that reforms are indeed already firmly implemented on the ground-level, the
Bank should consider very carefully before becoming fully engaged in a reform program with a client-
agency. In the case of the DA, based on the lessons of the DFIMDP and recent developments in the
sector, these manifestations should include: (i) a shift in the modalities with which the DA engages the
private sector, in the sense of an increasing leading role of the latter, at the level of field operations and/or
design of the policy framework; (ii) increasing attention by the DA to the goal of diversifying the
agricultural sector in line with the sector's competitiveness and structure comparative advantage across
sub-sectors; and (iii) progress in other relevant policies and programs that are likely to influence the
agricultural policy framework, such as the Conditional Cash Transfer Program whose implementation
may lead to a restructuring of the overall intervention in the rice market by the DA through the National
Food Authority (NFA).

Client readiness also involves the presence of a strong external constituency for institutional reforms. For
instance, similar NPS initiatives in the Department of Education (DepEd) and the Department of Health
(DOH) are expected to be less problematic than the DFIMDP since there is clear stakeholder demand and
pressure for the delivery of these Departments' MFOs. Parents, students, LGUs, the media, and the
general public will raise a strong protest if health and education services, such as school buildings,
hospitals, clinics, teaching paraphernalia, are not satisfactorily delivered. In the case of the agriculture and
fishery sector, however, there doesn't seem to be yet an equally strong constituency which can effectively
pressure the DA to adequately deliver market-oriented services and investments. DA Secretaries can be
removed for not preventing a rice crisis but not so yet for failing to deliver market information, laboratory
services, and effective regulation. The Oversight Agencies (OAs) could be a proxy pressure group for
these stakeholders. However, their effectiveness depends on the support or at least the neutrality of the
President as well as the OAs' technical competencies.

                                                       22
The Bank's role and engagement in institutional reforms - The Bank is better positioned to facilitate,
rather than lead or catalyze, reforms, at least within the current political economy of the Philippines. The
WB, therefore, should be reluctant to fully enter the reform picture in the country until these reforms are
already well-entrenched among the clients, especially among the government managers. Thus, until there
clear operational manifestations of these reforms in the concerned agencies, the Bank should limit its
involvement to helping establish a solid foundation for reforms. This could be undertaken through
focused SILs and TAs, to pilot innovations and build capacities, and AAA activities, for building
sufficient awareness and constituency for the needed reforms.

The Bank's future engagements in the agriculture and agribusiness sector ­ Unless there is a
favorable shift in the next Administration's agriculture development paradigm, Bank engagement with the
DA should focus on narrower investment lending programs (SILs), TAs and AAAs. For instance, future
Bank engagements involving the DA can include a SIL program to simply improve laboratory facilities
and services - a slice of the market-oriented services the DA is mandated to provide. The Bank can also
finance a SIL program to finance the nationwide roll-out of the DA's Farmers' Registry project , which is
a tool to improve both planning and M&E in DA - another slice of the DA's core functions. The DA finds
SILs more acceptable and easier to implement. Moreover, the capacity and systems improvements in
these straight and narrow lending programs can potentially lay the foundation for the DA's eventual
readiness for broader institutional reforms.

The DFIMDP experience also underscored the need for the Bank to expand its base of engagement in the
sector even as it continues to cultivate its relationship with the DA. When preparation of the DFIMD
project was initiated in 2002, the Department of Agriculture was seen as the "prime mover" in helping to
modernize the sector. However, by focusing primarily on production, the DA has neither kept pace with
the strategic requirements of the sector, nor developed the capacity to serve or provide leadership in
reforming the sector. Increasingly this is being done through private sector initiatives. Technology is
being provided by private industry, and agro-industry is being led by entrepreneurs, agro-processors and
supermarkets, supported by other government agencies including the Departments of Trade & Industry
and of Science & Technology. For the Bank, the lesson is the importance of engaging with a wider range
of stakeholders and institutions where the capacity and incentives are more attuned to the need for reform
and, therefore, more likely to have traction.

The Stakeholder Consultations have also shown that the legislature can be a potentially strong partner in
policy reform and program implementation. The Bank has mainly focused its engagement with the
Executive branch of government. However, the legislature, through its oversight of the budget process
and of the implementation of laws, can help facilitate the execution of reform programs and processes.
The legislature, especially its technical units (e.g., CPBD, SEPO) and staffs of various Committees (e.g.,
Appropriations, COCAFM), expressed willingness to support needed reforms but required assistance in
terms of technical information and capacity building especially on monitoring and evaluation.

Development Paradigm for Philippine Agriculture and Fisheries ­ There is a need for decision
makers from both the Executive and the Legislature, in coordination with various stakeholders, to
definitively clarify what should be the operative development thrust and framework for the sector. As
mentioned in Section 3.6 i, the DA and most of the legislature equate the AFMA and agricultural
development mainly with rice self-sufficiency. They, therefore, have a hierarchical view of the law where
the rice self-sufficiency objective trumps all the other development objectives of the AFMA. On the other
hand, the Oversight Agencies (and even the DA, initially) has a more balanced view of the AFMA,
interpreting the core functions of the DA to be more in line with market-oriented services and
investments, as expressed in the PDO of the DFIMDP, the chosen vehicle of AFMA reforms. This tension
over what the AFMA really means is hindering the progress of agriculture and fisheries modernization in
the country.

                                                     23
It should be noted that the DA's interpretation of the AFMA makes it schizophrenic in the sense that it
makes the law co-habit opposing and contradictory objectives. It goes against the AFMA objective of
food security whose dimensions include food affordability (Philippine rice policy has resulted in domestic
rice prices that are significantly and consistently above the world market price); it goes against the AFMA
goals of modernization, value-adding and diversification, since it squeezes out resources for all other
activities and interventions essential to this goal (R&D, market facilitation, product standards); and it goes
against the rationale for the AFMA to improve the living conditions of small farmers, given the low
earning potential from rice farming.

Assuming that the various AFMA objectives are not hierarchical but internally-consistent and mutually
reinforcing, then the sub-objective of pursuing rice and corn sufficiency will not be done at any cost and
at the expense of other AFMA priorities, but through sustainable, competitiveness-enhancing and market-
oriented means (i.e., R&D, marketing services). Moreover, the pursuit of rice and corn sufficiency will
have to be consistent with the appropriate roles ascribed to various stakeholders in line with the Local
Government Code ­ with the NG playing a "steering" function, the LGU a "rowing" function, and the
private sector as the primary "engine" of agricultural development. The NG would not be in the business
of delivering (private) goods such as fertilizers, seeds and chemicals to farmers, but rather would be
delivering services (marketing, technology) and providing the appropriate policy, regulatory and
investment environment. It should be noted that nowhere in the AFMA is the NG mandated to provide
production inputs. In fact, access to production inputs is mentioned only in section 23 of the AFMA
within the context of credit facilitation; that is, small farmers should be enabled to access credit in order
that they themselves will be able to purchase these inputs. This, therefore, begs the question of what is the
legal basis for the Banner or GMA programs where farm input provision is the centerpiece.

NG:LGU Cost-Sharing ­ The multiple NG-LGU cost sharing arrangement allowed by the GoP, through
the NEDA, is a serious portfolio issue, not only adversely affecting several Bank projects, but probably
similar initiatives financed by other partners in the ODA community involving NG-LGU financing and
implementation partnerships. The implementation of the MRDP 2, for instance, was delayed by 18
months because of this issue. This must, therefore be tackled with the GoP, both at the portfolio level and
in coordination with the rest of the affected donor community, for the purpose of rationalizing and
harmonizing these cost-sharing arrangements. The Philippine Development Forum (PDF) and the annual
ODA programming meetings between the GoP and the ODA agencies can be the fora for such
discussions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Annex 7 shows that the Implementing Agency (IA) mostly agreed to the findings, conclusions and
recommendations of DFIMDP IL-ICR. The Bank also corrected and updated the factual inaccuracies
pointed out by the IA in the document. The major issues that the IA raised were in the following areas : i)
the rating of the implementing agency's performance - the Bank was asked to upgrade the rating from
Unsatisfactory (U) to Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU) given that most of the target intermediate
outcomes were achieved; ii) the project M&E arrangements and performance ­ it was clarified that the
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division (PMED) did not agree to be the focal as specified in the
PAD, that alternative arrangements were set up by the DA, and that the DA monitored both intermediate
and secondary outcome indicators; iii) the major factor behind the non-fulfillment of the PDO ­ that it
was not due to the lack of DA management support but due to other priorities based on the clamor of the
DA clientele; and iv) the DA's mechanism for public-private consultation ­ the NAFC took exception to
the assertion that it has been largely ineffective and token, and maintains that much have been
accomplished in spite of limited resources.



                                                     24
On the performance rating of the IA, although it is true that most of the intermediate outcomes were
achieved, the KPI of the PDO, in terms of target increases in the allocation shares of market-oriented
services and investments in the DA's budget, were grossly unmet. Moreover, less than half of the project
funds were utilized. Thus, the achievements in intermediate outcomes were not at a scale that would be
sufficient to have a significant, sustainable and catalytic impact on the way the DA does its business that
is in accordance with the PDO. Hence, the IA's performance rating cannot be upgraded to MU.

Regarding the project M&E, it was agreed during project preparation and at negotiations that the project
would be designed to work within the existing structure of the DA. Thus, the M&E was designed to be
undertaken by the PMED of the Policy and Planning unit who has this responsibility in the DA (pages 8
and 21 of the PAD). To the extent the PMED drew on the reporting provided by the "Clusters", this
provided at least some feedback on the outcomes. However, using "Clusters" to gather information cannot
be a substitute for the DA's lack of having an institutionalized and effective M&E system. This lack
of M&E capacity in the DA, together with the ineffective linkages between M&E and decision making
processes of DA management, continue to lessen accountability and undermine the longer term strategic
planning and implementation for the Department. However, the more immediately important issue is,
were the baseline and the movements of the agreed-upon (intermediate and secondary) performance
indicators established and regularly monitored in accordance with the PAD? Sections 2.3 page 10, 3.2 and
3.3 clearly identified which of the project KPIs were properly monitored and which were not.

Meanwhile, the counter-explanation proposed by the DA for the non-fulfillment of the PDO appears to
imply that DA management supports the PDO but was compelled by "clients" to give more support to
non-AFMA and PEM priorities. This raises the issues of who these "clients' were and what were the
compelling reasons for shifting support away from the PDO given that: i) various studies and stakeholder
consultations, including those commissioned by the DA, showed strong technical bases for shifting public
support from production towards market-oriented services as well as strong farmer and agribusiness
sector demand for market-oriented services; and ii) consistent feedback from both DA management and
the Oversight Agencies (as recorded in the various Implementation Review Mission Aide Memoires) that
the DFIMDP PDO and project design continue to be consistent and relevant to the development needs of
the sector. Regardless, resource allocation and use reflect where management support and priorities
actually lie: DA management chose to underutilize project funds, and to allocate agency resources to
production support services and investments at the expense of the DFIMDP PDO.

Lastly, regarding the comment on the effectiveness of the DA's stakeholder consultation mechanism, the
ICR was merely reporting the feedback from its stakeholder workshops. It should be noted that most of
the participants in these workshops were drawn from the list provided by the DA.




                                                    25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing:

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                              Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                      millions)
 SUPPORT FOR MARKET
                                                17.16                    8.75             51.00
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
 MARKET DEVELOPMENT
                                                22.25                    2.33             10.47
INVESTMENTS
 STRENGTHENING SAFETY
AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
                                                17.33                    8.57             49.45
SYSTEMS FOR MARKET
DEVELOPMENT
 MARKET-LINKED
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                           9.66                    5.73             59.32
AND DISSEMINATION
 ENHANCING BUDGET
RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND                          2.72                    3.29            121.00
PLANNING

                Total Baseline Cost             69.11                   28.67             41.48
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 0.00
                Total Project Costs              0.00
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.60                    0.30              50.0

        Total Financing Required                69.71                   28.97             41.56




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                   Estimate       Estimate
                                              financing                                    Appraisal
                                                           (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                  9.71           1.99           20.49
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           60.00           26.98        44.96
and Development
Total Financing                                            69.71           28.97        41.55




                                                    26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project had five components designed to support areas of DA's service delivery supporting a more
market-oriented approach to the sector, in line with the goals of AFMA. The component activities were,
therefore, designed to shift the DA towards a more service and functionally orientated institution, rather
than being primarily a source of inputs and subsidies focused on boosting production of rice and corn.
The components and main accomplishments under the project were as follows:

Component 1: Support for Market Development Services: This was to strengthen the capacity of the
Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service (AMAS) to provide more effective market promotion, trade
fairs, etc., in conjunction with the private sector. The Bureau of Agricultural Statistics (BAS) was to
receive more support to improve the quality of information, and data analysis and better information
dissemination was to be addressed through strengthening the core functions of the Information
Technology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries (ITCAF), the National Agriculture and Fisheries
Council (NAFC), the Agriculture and Fisheries Information Service (AFIS) and the Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI). Specifically, an Agriculture and Fisheries Market Information System (AFMIS) was to
be established to improve market information access to farmers/growers and the general community.

The key performance indicator under the project was the Operationalization of the AFMIS. The indicator
was partially achieved. Because of lengthy delays in the hiring of the consultant firm for the design of the
system, the piloting of AFMIS was scheduled for the second half of 2009, whereas 75% of farmers in the
focus areas of the project were to have been benefiting from the service by the end of the project. The
goal is that this service, once established, should greatly enhance access of producers and traders to
current market and production information in key trading centers through a variety of mechanisms (SMS,
web, radio & newspaper). It remains to be seen, however, whether the DA will commit the resources to
ensure the information is kept updated and relevant to farmers, traders and agri-businesses.

As of project completion (June 30, 2009), the AFMIS Framework had been completed and a revised
design of the AFMIS website had been agreed. An AFMIS Operations Manual has been completed and
approved. The AFMIS database and Web server will be implemented only at the national level by ITCAF,
but the database will be replicated in the BAS21 to provide security to the data and serve as an online
backup of the data in case of a hardware failure. Although one AFMIS Framework will be made available
to all users of the system at the provincial, regional or national level, the concept of implementing a local
AFMIS will still remain valid, since data collected from each of the focus regions can still be generated
from the National AFMIS Website. Reasons given for the modification in the design of the AFMIS
website are: (1) unavailability of dedicated servers to host the AFMIS Website in each of the four focus
areas; (2) lack or insufficient network and internet infrastructures to support the hosting of a local
AFMIS; and (3) lack of technical staff to maintain the database and web server within the RFU units.

Other activities supported under this component of the project related mainly to the support given to trade
fairs and exhibits, both domestically and internationally. Feedback from agro-processors who
participated in these events was very positive. That said, the limited budget allocated by the DA for such
market development services clearly limited the impact.

Component 2: Market Development Investments: Resource allocation for investments in rural roads
and other infrastructure was to be strengthened by sharpening the selection, approval and implementation
criteria and procedures, to ensure more demand-driven, market-oriented investments in partnership with

21
     ICTAF-Information Technology Center for Agriculture and Fisheries., BAS-Bureau of Agriculture Statistics.

                                                         27
LGUs and the private sector. To enhance impact, the project was to initially fund investments in four
focus areas viz; . Region 10 (Bukidnon; a large producer of vegetables, fruits, corn and livestock); Region
7 (Cebu and Negros Oriental; primarily producing vegetables, fruits and mariculture); Region 6 (Iloilo
and Panay Island: with particular attention to aquaculture), and the Cordillera Administrative Region
(CAR, a large producer of vegetables and fruits). The project design provided for other regions to be
included as experience evolved under the project with the adoption of the investment procedures
contained in the Operations Manual.

The key output indicator for this component was to standardize and upgrade procedures (through an
Operations Manual) by which market-related investments are undertaken by the DA . This indicator was
achieved. All regional offices of the DA have been provided copies of the Operations Manual, and
Regional Field Units (RFUs) participating in the DFIMD project have institutionalized their Regional
Advisory Boards and Regional Technical Secretariats. The procurement procedures embodied in the
Operations Manual have also been accepted, although regional procurement units (BACs) still need to
become more familiar with the requirements of R.A. 9184. There is, therefore, a growing level of
adoption of the Operations Manual in line with the intended `Output Indicator".

The main constraint in sustaining the initiatives made in this component, however, has been the multiple
cost-sharing arrangements permitted to operate between Government agencies and LGUs for locally
funded projects, i.e., projects funded from the "regular" budget of government. In the case of the DA,
outright grants to LGUs are permitted, whereas the ruling is that for foreign-assisted loans, a 50/50 cost
sharing formula must be followed. Government has been unable to come to grips with this dichotomy in
cost-sharing arrangements, which has undermined the DFIMDP goal of having the DA fully implement a
standardized approach to supporting LGUs. Understandably, LGUs demand the easier terms they know
to be available. This prompted RFUs 5, 9, and 10 to cancel planned local infrastructure projects under
the DFIMDP 2007/8 PAgs. It also greatly constrained the initial keen interest of other DA-RFUs to
participate in the project. To the extent that rationalization of the multiple cost-sharing arrangements was
beyond the scope of the project, but that in other respects the "Operation Manual has been adopted in the
Focus Areas of the project, this "output indicator" can be considered partially achieved.

Notwithstanding the difficulties due to the "cost-sharing" issue, feedback from the IL-ICR review
indicates the market-related infrastructure provided under the project was greatly appreciated. Successful
implementation of this component was achieved in Region 6, where there were apparently very limited
alternative sources of funding, and where there was dynamic leadership on the part of the DA. Some 34
sub-projects were implemented in RFU-6.

Component 3: Strengthening Safety and Quality Assurance Systems for Market
Development: This was to strengthen implementation capacity of DA's regulatory services, particularly
in ensuring that international standards for safety and quality were met. The goal was to address
frustrations expressed in various reports and during the consultative process of project preparation, with
the regulatory functions of the DA, notably lack of transparency, cumbersome procedures and
inconsistent implementation. The project provided budgetary support for the core functions of DA
regulatory agencies (BPI, BAI, BFAR, NMIC, FPA and BAFPS). This included support for the
accreditation of private sector providers of laboratory services, certified seeds, etc. In line with the
provisions of AFMA, BAFPS in particular was to be strengthened in order to carry out its mandate of
coordinating with the other regulatory agencies, and to complete a review and action plan, aimed at
rationalizing the technical, physical and financial needs for the strengthening of the laboratories needed to
service the DA's overall regulatory system. There were three key output indicators for this component as
discussed below



                                                     28
 i)      Establishment of a user-friendly web-based system providing full disclosure of regulatory
         procedures, charges, forms etc: An on-line system was launched in September 2008 which can
         be accessed at the DA's Web site: www.da.gov.ph through the "Export Help Desk". The system
         provides information on the requirements, process and the ability to down-load forms needed to
         obtain clearances. Because of the documentary evidence that needs to be submitted, on-line
         application for permits is not feasible. Further refinements seem to be needed, especially the full
         listing of fees for the various permits. This "output indicator" can be considered achieved.

 ii)     Increase by some 20% the number of accredited private sector operations: There has been
         considerable progress in the pace of "accreditation" as well as a clarification of procedures,
         especially in regard to seed and plant production. A significant development was the issuance of
         A.O. 6 of 2006, wherein it was instructed that any procurement by the DA of seed or plant
         material should be from accredited suppliers. This was reinforced in the revised GOP
         procurement guidelines R.A. 9184, wherein only accredited suppliers can be qualified as
         contractors for government purchases. This has provided an important incentive for seed
         producers and nurseries to become accredited. The number of accredited seed producers
         increased from 1169 in 2004 to 3051 in 2008, and the overall area of accredited seed farms
         increased from 7,107 to 20,797 ha over the same period as shown in Table 1 below. This "output
         indicator" was, thus, achieved.

Table1. Increase in the number and area of accredited seed grower from 2004 to 2008

                                                    Seed Growers
  Year      Inbred       H.     Corn      H.       OPV    Veg./Leg.     Cotton   Peanut     Total    Total
             Rice       Rice             Corn      Corn                                    number    Area
                                                                                                      (ha)
  2004         801      326       36       3         0           3         0        0       1169      7107
  2005         831      201       16       0         0           2        58        0       1108      6641
  2006        1573      155       67       0         4          12         2        1       1814     10389
  2007         928      170       23       2        35           6         1        0       1165     11292
  2008        2850      144       37       2        18           0         0        0       3051     20979


 iii)    Full cost charge-out rates applied for regulatory services. This proved to be unattainable. The
         initial enthusiasm within the DA to pursue full-cost pricing was moderated following a review
         undertaken by DA regulatory agencies during 2008. That review concluded that; "At this time
         in the Philippines, many exporters are small and could not compete if full-cost charge back was
         applied". This finding, however, was very likely conditioned by Executive Order No. 554 issued
         in 2006, which eliminated fees and charges imposed on export clearances, inspections, permits,
         certificates and other documentation requirements. Concerns were also raised that because of
         the different technology available to the various regulatory agencies, uniform costs for the same
         test/ type of permit could not yet be established. Feedback from a study conducted on laboratory
         rationalization under the project and from interviews with private sector interests would suggest,
         however, that service standards of DA laboratories are slow and unreliable compared with
         private sector where such facilities exist. This "output indicator" can be considered as not
         achieved.




                                                    29
Other key activities included under this component were i) the strengthening of the Bureau of Agriculture
Food Product Standards (BAFPS) which had been created under AFMA22, but never properly staffed, and
ii) development and implementation of action plans for the rationalization of regulatory laboratory
services and of the quarantine services. This was made a condition of disbursement for the strengthening
of laboratory and quarantine services with the view to avoiding duplication and overlap of laboratory
facilities operated by the various regulatory agencies of the DA , notably BFAR, BPI, BAI, NMIS and
FPA. Modest achievements were realized on both these project activities.

The staffing of BAFPS was approved with an initial complement of some 17 positions. Most of these
positions were filled, and in line with directives of AFMA, BAFPS took a lead role in helping to
coordinate the other regulatory agencies of the DA in formulating an action plan for streamlining
regulatory laboratory services. The Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), however,
withdrew from participating in the project early in its implementation, preferring to maintain its more
independent role and functions vis-a vis the DA. With its expanded staff, BFAR has been effective, to the
extent limited funding has been available, in developing agricultural product standards and in seeking
ways to standardize and maintain records of regulatory laboratory procedures and results, in accordance
with international protocols. This is an important function that needs to be given much greater and
continuing support by the DA.

The development of action plans for streamlining of laboratory and quarantine services was partially
accomplished. A first phase action plan was jointly prepared by BAFPS, BPI, BAI, FPA and NMIS23 that
addressed a number of pressing needs relating to national laboratories of these agencies. However, for
lack of more senior management attention, the cluster representatives from these agencies were unable to
reach a consensus on some of the more difficult issues relating to sharing of quarantine facilities or
strengthening of regional laboratories. Much remains to be done to bring the standard of regulatory
laboratory and quarantine services up to international standards. The issues are well known, and a
considerable body of expertise exists within the DA to get on with the job. However, without the
willingness and/or interest of senior DA management to tackle the issues, the quality of Philippine
agricultural and laboratory services will continue to languish.

Notwithstanding the ongoing problems, the first phase action plan was largely accomplished under the
project and which called for i) BAFPS: Construction of a building for reference material & laboratory,
together with the procurement of laboratory equipment, supplies , and a vehicle. Key outputs were the
setting of standards, ii) BPI : Strengthened pesticide analytical laboratory capability in Quezon City,
Cebu and Davao including procurement of equipment for analysis of meat & fishery products.
Intensified programs were put in place for assuring compliance with Minimum Residue Levels (MRL)
required by the Japanese government for mango and okra. Guidelines were developed for seed
certification of okra and accreditation of facilities such as VHT for mangoes, iii) FPA: Establishment of
MRLs for selected pesticides and training in pesticide application, iv) BAI ; and NMIS: Strengthened
laboratories primarily for veterinary drug assay, feed analysis, & animal diagnostics. An important cross
cutting activity which was initiated under the project and which needs continuing support was the
establishment of a Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS) designed to standardize


22
   AFMA provided for the creation of the Bureau of Food Product standards to i) formulate and enforce standards of
quality in the processing, preservation, packaging, labeling, importation, exportation, distribution, and advertising of
agricultural and fisheries products, ii) conduct research on product standardization, alignment of the local standards
with the international standards, and iii) conduct regular inspection of processing plants, storage facilities, abattoirs,
as well as public and private markets in order to ensure freshness, safety and quality of products.
23
   BAFPS-Bureau of Agriculture and Fishery Product Standards, BPI-Bureau of Plant Industry,, BAI-Bureau of
Animal Industry, FPA-Food and Pesticide Authority, NMIS-National Meat Inspection Service.

                                                           30
regulatory laboratory procedures and references in line with international protocols, while also
maintaining a record of laboratory results.

Component 4: Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination: This component sought
to leverage a strengthening of DA's R&D and training outreach in regard to increasing the emphasis
given to market-related issues. Resource allocation for R&D was to be improved through a competitive
grants approach (Competitive Grants Manual), and the role of the DA's Agricultural Training Institute
(ATI) was to be strengthened by phasing out its role as a direct provider of training, except for LGU
extension workers, while strengthening its role in strategic planning including greater emphasis on
market-related aspects, coordination and funding of training.

The key output indicator for this component was the implementation of a Market-Oriented Competitive
Research Grants Program. This was achieved. The goal was to support the development of technologies
with a clear links to supporting market development. This was effectively implemented and the
"competitive" approach to funding research has been adopted for all types of research. Targets were
exceeded in most years and the system has operated well. An evaluation into the overall impact of the
research in generating market linked technologies was underway at the time of project completion. This
"output indicator" can be considered achieved.

Implementation of this component was satisfactory throughout the project period. In retrospect, this
could be attributed to the fact that the work programs of the agencies responsible for implementing the
component, BAR, BPRE, and ATI 24were already largely aligned with the goals of AFMA. There was
not, therefore, the same level of difficulty encountered with other agencies/units of the DA where some
shifting in emphasis was required. Nevertheless, it is significant to note, for example, that in the case of
BPRE, the entire 2008 work program under DFIMDP was effectively put on "hold" when the decision
was taken by DA management to reallocate the SARO for the project to production support. This set back
was all the more troubling, as throughout the project period, BAR, ATI and BPRE had developed
efficient coordination mechanisms resulting in effective implementation of the research, training and
extension activities.

Highlights of the achievements under this component included BAR: Some 418 research proposals were
received and reviewed over 2007 and 2008, with some 110 projects being selected for funding. Of these,
47 research projects supported the commercialization of technologies and products. Three projects were
for IT based R &D. Monitoring, primarily in terms of ensuring the expenditures are in line with the
proposal, has been done for some 111 project over the 2007-2008 period. An "impact evaluation" was
being undertaken at the time of project closure to determine the overall effectiveness of the R &D
program, the results. BPRE. The project supported "loss assessment", using improved methodology, for
four commodities over 27 provinces, the results being used to identify bottlenecks and defects in the
marketing chain. Methodology and tools were also developed for the DA to assess the suitability of
agricultural machinery it purchases, primarily small farmers. To the extent no independent assessment is
available for agricultural machinery on the market, this activity has the potential to better inform
consumers of the pros & cons of various machinery. BPRE plans to explore how to partner with other
groups to expand this service. A myco-toxin laboratory of BPRE was also established. ATI: A
significant development over the life of the project has been ATI's reorientation of its training, such that
some 50% of its efforts are now directed to supporting "market-oriented" activities. Also significant has
been ATIs use of web-based technology to extend the reach of it activities. On-line training and an e-
extension service is now available for several key crops at: www.ati.da.gov.ph. Additionally, a system to
facilitate e-trading is being developed.

24
 BAR-Bureau of Agriculture Research, BPRE-Bureau of Post-Harvest Research and Extension, and ATI-
Agriculture Training Institute.

                                                    31
Component 5: Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning: This component focused on
supporting the government-wide initiative on improvement of public expenditure management designed
to improve efficiencies in resource allocation and utilization, and better linkages between planning and
budgeting. Specifically it was envisioned that the project would assist the DA in making the transition to
MFO-based budgeting designed to assist DA Management in providing more strategic allocations of
scarce budgetary resources. It was envisaged that this reconfiguration of the budget would pave the way
for the DA to overcome the chronic disconnect between its annual plans and actual expenditures. The
goal was to give more emphasis to the funding of DAs core functions, particularly as they relate to market
development.

The key performance indicator under the project was to strengthen the core functions of the DA
supporting market development services: The indicator was not achieved. Indicative budget targets for
2009 agreed as a percentage of the total annual DA budget were: Market Development Services 7%,
Regulatory Services l0%, Information Services 5%, Infrastructure Services 10%, Research and
Technology 8%, Planning, M&E, and Financial Management 7%. Overall, the budget allocation for
"market oriented activities" was to have increased from 32% of the budget in 2004, to an indicative level
of some 47% in 2009. In the initial calculation of the baseline, the allocation for "extension services" was
not included, as this was essentially "production-oriented". Subsequently, an important accomplishment
under the project was the realignment of ATI's training from being production focused to also include
market related aspects in over 50% of such training activities. Therefore, if this proportion of ATI's
budget allocation is included in the calculation for 2008, the overall resource allocation for "market-
oriented activities" is 25%. Clearly, then, the "Outcome Indicator" of 47% has not been met as shown in
Table 2, although over the first three years of the project, the DA did attempt to maintain a trajectory
which would have accomplished the indicative target for the project. In the last two years of the project,
however, there was a back-sliding on the commitment to achieving the 47% target for the project. The
argument could be made that because of the large budget increase, the actual funding for market-related
services did increase , i.e. from PhP 4.6 B in 2005 to PhP 11 B in 2009, compared with PhP 6.8 B which
would have corresponded to the indicative target of 47%, had the budget remained at its 2005 level. This,
however, was explicitly discussed during project appraisal and negotiation, with the understanding being
that the indicative target should be kept as a proportion of the budget, as an indicator of DAs commitment
to adjust the balance of priorities in line with the goals of AFMA.

Analysis of DA Budget Allocations over the project period: DA's total budget appropriations increased
more than threefold during the project, from PhP 14.534 billion in 2005 to PhP 46.861 billion in 2009,
with AFMA appropriations accounting for 71% to 82% of total. Over the same period of time, the bulk of
the budget was under the Office of the Secretary (OSec), i.e., around 80% excluding budgets of GOCCs25
(Table 3).




Table 2: Comparison of budget allocations for market related services and activities across project years
and with the indicative targets agreed under the loan.

Budget                 2005          2006           2007            2008           2009         Indicative

25
     GOCC-Government owned and controlled corporations

                                                     32
Category                                                  Baseline                                                                                                                                           target for
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2009
Market Dev.                                                 1                                        0.7                                        7                                     0.9           1.9           7
Regulatory                                                  9                                        2.4                                        4                                     1.7           1.5          10
Information                                                 1                                        1.4                                        3                                     0.5           0.6           5
Infrastructure                                             10                                       20.8                                       11                                    24.5          15.2          10
R &D                                                        6                                        3.5                                        6                                     2.1           2.3           8
Planning                                                    5                                         5                                         5                                     2.5           2.5           7
*Ext. & Train                                               -                                         -                                         -                                     2.1           1.1           -
Total                                                     32%                                       33%                                       36%                                    34%           25%          47%
Actual                                                  PhP14.5 B                                 PhP15.8 B                                 PhP19 B                                PhP33.7 B     PhP44.0 B
Budget

Reg & AFMA

* 50% of ATI's budget included in this calculation for 2008 and 2009, in line with the proportion of activities directed to "market
oriented activities"



Table 3. Department of Agriculture Regular and AFMP Appropriations: 2005 to 2009, In
`million
                                                       2009                               2008                                  2007                         2005 / 2006 Reenacted
      Particulars                  Regular         AFMA         Total        Regular      AFMA        Total        Regular      AFMA        Total        Regular       AFMA        Total
DA
 1 Office of the Secretary              2,520          33,893   36,413         2,305      20,200       22,505        2,228      13,066       15,294         2,057       9,033        11,090
    2 ACPC                                    21                        21           19                       19           19                       19            17                        17
    3 BFAR                               470            1,898    2,368           438       1,199        1,637          441        914         1,355          419         829          1,248
    4 BuPHRE                             114                       114               87                       87           52                       52            50                        50
    5 Cotton Dev. Admin.                      44                        44           41                       41           41                       41            40                        40
    6 FPA                                     92                        92           40                       40           68                       68            36                        36
    7 FIDA                               211                       211           159                      159          155                      155          150                       150
    8 Livestock Dev. Council                  17                        17           10                       10            9                       9              9                        9
    9 NAFC                                    61        1,024    1,085               52      -                52           52      -                52            51      -                 51
10 NatL. Meat Insp. Service                   21          171      192               19     134           153              19     137           156               19          98       117
11 National Nutrition Council             -                         -            -                        -            -                        -                 43                        43
12 Philippine Carabao Center                  44          620      664               28          75       103              27          74       101               25          71            96
      Total New Appropriations          3,615          37,606   41,221         3,198      21,608       24,806        3,111      14,191       17,302         2,916      10,031        12,947
DA GOCCs:
    1 National Dairy Authority                82          -             82       102         -            102              52      -                52            52      -                 52
    2 National Food Authority           4,000             -      4,000         2,000         -          2,000        1,100         -          1,100          900          -            900
    3 National Tobacco Admin.            140              -        140           115         -            115          115         -            115               80      -                 80
    4 Phil. Coconut Authority            230              355      585           230        193           423          230             50       280          170              41       211
    5 Phil. Crop Insurance Corp               30          184      214               30      -                30           30      -                30            30      -                 30
    6 Phil. Rice Research Inst.               95          324      419               95     178           273              98     162           260               90     150           240
    7 Sugar Regulatory Admin.             -               -         -            -           -            -            -           -            -                 35      -                 35
    8 Quedan & Rural Credit              200              -        200           -           -            -            -           -            -             -           -             -
      Guarantee Corp
    9 Philippine Fisheries                -               -         -            -               25           25       -               25           25        -               39            39
      Development Authority
      Total DA GOCCs                    4,777             863    5,640         2,572        396         2,968        1,625        237         1,862         1,357        230          1,587
GRAND TOTAL                             8,392          38,469   46,861         5,770      22,004       27,774        4,736      14,428       19,164         4,273      10,261        14,534

S                               DBM G              A                    A




A more detailed analysis of DA's regular and AFMA budgets showed that from 21% to 39% of the total
GMA program budget had been in "complete" control of the Office of the Secretary (Table 4). Some PhP
14.7 billion for 2009 was appropriated as lump sum fund under the Office of the Secretary. Subsequent
reallocation of this amount did not require prior DBM approval. It has been the DA's view that this level
of "budget flexibilities/control for the Secretary is necessary to ensure full and efficient utilization of
funds".

Table 4. Department of Agriculture Office of the Secretary-Controlled* AFMP Budget
Appropriations for the Years 2005 to 2009 (PhP 'million)




                                                                                                                                                    33
                Particulars                        2009              2008              2007          2005 / 2006#
Total DA AFMP Budget Appropriations                    37,606           21,608              14,191          10,031
GMA Rice and Corn                                      11,427             3,290              2,422           2,030
GMA High Value Commercial Crops                         2,224             1,013                215             102
GMA Livestock                                           1,044               439                324             144
          Total Osec-Controlled Budget                 14,695             4,742              2,961           2,276
          % to Total DA AFMA Budget                   39.08%           21.95%               20.87%         22.69%
Source of basic data: DBM, General Appropriations Acts 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009
* Net of amounts listed under OSec but with separate line item, e.g, appropriated to RFOs
# Reenacted Budget


As shown in Table 5, the DA has continued to provide the bulk of its funding to the GMA production
programs and irrigation development program despite its medium-term strategy to move away from
commodity-based to function-based allocation of resources. The production support budget continuously
increased from 2004 to 2009, from PhP 1.928 billion to PhP 9.670 billion in 2009; a five-fold increase in
peso value over the six-year period. As percentage of total budget, it jumped from 12.4% to 22%.




Table 5. Department of Agriculture Appropriations by Major Final Output (MFO)* For the Years
2004 to 2009, In PhP million




                                                        34
                                           NEP       GAA       GAA       R           GAA       R
        AFMA C                   MFO
                                       A    S    A    S    A    S    A       S   A    S    A       S
M         O                MFO
    O      I                      P
               S
    E              S         E
         T             S
    P        P
    R           D
    M D
    R        S
    N      I          N
    S T
O P           C
    I
    P         S
    C    F          S
    S T
T AFMP
R       B
G     T
  I        DAG  OCC
S                   D                  A




                                                                                     35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Approach followed by the economic and financial analysis at appraisal


The economic and financial analysis at appraisal was limited mainly to assess the appropriateness of the
mechanisms for delivering outputs under the project and of the means that would be used to screen
activities to ensure economic viability. This was mainly due to the fact that contrary to a typical
investment lending project, no prior list of identified sub-projects was available to carry out a detailed
cost-benefit analysis under the DFIMDP.

The main conclusions of the analysis was that the mechanisms for channelling the project's resources
towards expenditures supporting the provisions of strategic services and public goods by the DA were
largely satisfactory and in line with the indications of the AFMA, the implementation of which was
considered to be one the project's strategic goals. The structure of the DA's budget before the project was
compared to the planned one at completion and shown to be entirely consistent with such goal. At this
stage, therefore, the analysis focused on the relevance of the project design, noticing that a budget support
rather than a SIL was a proper choice as a way to channel funds so as to realign DA's budget with the
strategic directions indicated by the AFMA.

With regard to funding of sub-projects for the development of market infrastructure, the analysis focused
on the relevance of the type of sub-projects that would be funded by the DFIMDP, the role that LGUs and
the private sector could play as beneficiaries, and the potential efficiency gains that could be achieved by
streamlining sub-project identification, design, and implementation through the procedures that the
DFIMDP would have developed, in particular for what concerns the integration of DA's regional
activities with the LGUs' development plans. Finally, an indicative list of four sub-projects that had been
identified before implementation of the DFIMDP was provided with the associated estimates of ex-ante
ERRs, which ranged between 16% and 18%.

Project cost and expenditures by component

Less than half of the Loan Proceeds was effectively disbursed under the project, with the Market
Development Investments component (Component 2) representing the largest gap between planned and
effective disbursement (Table 1). Given the high returns estimated for the sub-projects executed under
this component (see below), it is clear that inability to fully utilize the project's proceeds results in a huge
value of foregone opportunities in terms of improved profitability and access to markets by farmers.

Sub-utilization of funds has been of 51% for Component 3 (Quality Assurance Services), 49% for
Component 1 (Market Development Services), and 41% for Component 4 (Technology Development and
Dissemination). The analysis reported below suggests that the returns from investments in the activities
carried out under components 3 and 4 yield substantial returns, although these are difficult to estimate on
a quantitative basis. As a result, the project's inability to allocate and disburse resources as planned at
appraisal is quite likely to have resulted in a substantial amount of foregone private and social benefits.




                                                      36
Table 1. Project cost and expenditures at appraisal and completion (million US$)



                                                                  At appraisal (2004)     At completion (2009)
                                                                  LP     GOP     Total    LP     GOP     Total
Support for Market Development Services                          15.00    2.16   17.16   7.98    0.77     8.75
Market Development Investments                                   18.00    4.25   22.25   2.06    0.27     2.33
Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems for Market Development   15.00    2.33   17.33   7.98    0.59     8.57
Market-linked Technology Development and Dissemination            9.00    0.66    9.66   5.57    0.16     5.73
Enhancing Budget Resource Allocation and Planning                 2.40    0.32    2.72   3.09    0.20     3.29
Total Baseline Cost                                              59.40    9.71   69.11   26.68   1.99    28.67
    Source: DA and PAD

Achievement of primary and secondary outcomes


As discussed in Annex 2, the project has achieved mixed results in terms of results performance
indicators. With regard to outcomes, the PAD sought to monitor performance by using the following set
of indicators: (i) client satisfaction; (ii) increase in the proportion of budgetary resources for DA's core
functions. These indicators have been discussed in Annex 2 and other parts of the report. In addition, a set
of secondary outcomes indicators were also proposed to capture specific improvements in DA's support
in improving the competitiveness of the agribusiness sector. These indicators included: (i) the number of
export rejections at major destination ports; (ii) number of private firms and producer associations
engaged in marketing and processing of agricultural produce; (iii) reduction of post-harvest losses; (iv)
increase in farm profitability and greater diversification of farm incomes. Indicators of firm participation
and farm income diversification were not measured during project implementation due to the lack of
suitable data. The remaining indicators are discussed below with the objective of providing a qualitative
assessment of the project's performance in terms of increasing the agribusiness sector's competitiveness
and profitability. This approach is justified on the basis of the observation that the main constraint to the
implementation of the project has been internal to the DA rather than due to external circumstances out of
the implementing agency's control.



Export rejections and detentions at major destination ports



By strengthening safety and quality assurance services under component 3, the DFIMDP sought to
improve Philippine food export competitiveness by reducing the instances of rejection. Table 2 shows the
targeted reductions in rejections against actual performance measured at ports of entry in the European
Union (EU), as data from Japan and the United States (USA) were collected by the DA only for the 2004-
2008 period.



                                                          37
Table 2. Rejections and detention of Philippines' agri-food exports to the EU



                                          Baseline          2005    2006       2007         2008
Targets (% variation on baseline)                           -5%     -10%       -20%         -30%
 Actual                                   6.75              14      41         13           23
 Actual (% variation on baseline)         -                 207%    607%       193%         341%


The data show that the target not only was not achieved, but that, in fact, Philippine agri-food exports had
a harder time in being accepted at the border inspections. Some external factors have influenced such
performance and were not taken into consideration at the time in when the indicator was adopted. First,
the value of agri-food exports from the Philippines to the EU increased by 249% during 2000-2008. Thus,
part of the higher number of detentions and rejections has been caused by an increasing volume of trade.
Second, new provisions were issued by the EU on food safety standards (EU Food Hygiene Package) in
2006 and were barely known by exporters and consolidators in the Philippines. This is reflected in the
substantial increase in the number of rejections and detentions in that same year. A better dissemination
of these new requirements by the DA would have helped in reducing the rejections and detentions.
Nevertheless, the situation seemed to have been addressed by the following year, and it can hardly be
used as an argument for explaining the increase in rejections and detentions in 2008.

In order to draw some meaningful conclusions from the analysis, it is worth noting that during 2000-
2008, while the share of imports from the Philippines in total imports of the EU, Japan, and the USA
declined from 1.11% to 0.46%, the share of agri-food imports from the Philippines in total agri-food
imports in these three trading areas has remained roughly constant at around 1.05%. Thus, compared to
the other sectors exporting to these three trading areas, the agri-food sector has performed relatively well
as its total export value in million of US dollars almost doubled. On the other hand, it appears from the
data discussed above, that the quality and safety assurance system supported by the DA is still weak and
not supportive enough of the great potential of the agri-food sector. Thus, although at this stage there is
not enough information to estimate the cost of not achieving the targeted reductions in rejections and
detentions, it seems fair to say that this is likely to be substantial.


Size of post-harvest losses for key agricultural products



The DFIMDP targeted a sustained decrease in post harvest losses from at least 2 percent in 2006 to at
least 4 percent in 2007. At the end of the project, losses were targeted to decrease by at least 10%. In the
absence of a baseline data, the analysis makes use of available survey data from the Bureau of Post-
harvest Research and Extension (BPHRE). Tables 3A and 3B show the estimates on the post harvest
losses for palay and corn. In the case of palay, there was a marginal decline in the losses since 1994. The
drop in losses in storage was somehow negated by the deterioration in the losses in the other operations.
In contrast, there was a substantial decline in the post-harvest losses in corn, with most coming from
storage and shelling.

Table 3A. Estimated Post-production Losses of paddy (%)

   Operation                                         Post production Losses


                                                     38
                                       2008*                                   1994-95                      1984**            1974
                             Range             Mean                   Range              Mean                Range        Range
    Harvesting             0.84-5.27              2.87              Trace-4.85           1.81              Trace ­ 4.8        1-3
    Piling                Trace-0.81              0.24              Trace-1.77           0.54              Trace ­ 1.0        2-7
    Threshing              0.86-4.83              2.11              0.04-5.09            2.17               0.1 ­ 5.4         2-6
    Drying                 1.01-10.69             4.65              0.74-8.70             4.5              Trace ­ 0.7        1-5
    Storage                     -                    -              0.35-5.20            2.72               2.6 ­ 5.0         2-6
    Milling                1.69-9.19              4.88              Trace-6.33            3.1               6.3 ­ 8.3      2 - 10
     Total                 4.40-30.79          14.75                1.13-31.94           14.84             9.0 ­ 23.0     10 - 37
     Mean                                                                                                      16             23.5
*     1st season (March-May 2008) preliminary data only; average of 8 provincial sites (Isabela, Nueva Ecija, Camarines Sur,
      Iloilo, Leyte, Agusan Norte, North Cotabato & Davao Sur)

** Isabela and Iloilo provinces only




Source: BPHRE, DA


Table 3B. Estimated Post-production Losses of corn (%)

                                                                          Post Production Loses
                                                                           (Percent of Value)
             Operation                                   2005-06*                                             1994-95
                                         Range                         Mean                      Range                   Mean
    Harvesting                          0.64 -1.52                     1.05                     0.2 ­ 2.7                1.3
    Piling                                Trace                        Trace                Trace ­ 2.5                  1.0
    Shelling                           0.25 ­ 0.70                     0.52                     0.7 ­ 6.7                2.7
    Drying                             4.01 ­ 4.99                     4.54                 Trace ­ 9.8                  4.6
    Marketing/hauling                  0.47 ­ 0.64                     0.56                         -                     -
    Storage                            0.48 ­ 0.54                     0.51                     2.8 ­ 3.3                3.1
     Total                             5.85 ­ 8.39                     7.18                      3.7 -25                 12.7
*Isabela, Bukidnon and South Cotabato provinces only


       Source: BPHRE, DA



Indicators of farm profitability (cost and return surveys provided by BAS)




                                                                     39
To measure profitability trends, data from BAS' Cost and Return Surveys have been used to compute
ratios of net profits to total costs, both computed as sum of monetary and non-monetary components26.
The trends in the profitability of different agricultural products have been mixed. Table 4 divides these
agricultural products into three groups: (i) palay and corn; (ii) agricultural produce that have a positive
trend in profitability for the period 2000-2008; and (iii) those that have a negative trend in profitability
for the same period. It is worth noting that among those with a negative trend over the entire sample
period, the pattern was reversed for the period 2004-2008 in four of nine cases. In the five cases where the
declining pattern remains, two cases exhibited a slowdown in the decrease.

An interesting point to note is that two products with substantial export potential such as mango and
pineapple have displayed a negative trend in terms of profitability. Import-competing products, such as
rice, corn, mongo, peanuts, and onion have, instead, improved their profitability during 2000-2008.
These results are consistent with the increasing focus of the DA's assistance to the sector towards the
protection of import competing crops during the last decade (David, Intal, and Balisacan, 2009).




Table 4. Profit-Cost Ratio

                                                                                            Slope   Slope
                                                                                                             Diff
                  2000     2001     2002     2003     2004    2005     2006   2007   2008   00-08   04-08
                                                                                                             B-A
                                                                                             (A)     (B)

Palay
  Irrigated                         0.28     0.35     0.35    0.38     0.38   0.42   0.46   0.03    0.03     0.00
  Non-Irrigated                     0.18     0.21     0.24    0.24     0.28   0.34   0.38   0.03    0.04     0.00
  All                               0.26     0.30     0.31    0.34     0.35   0.39   0.43   0.03    0.03     0.00
Corn
  Yellow                            0.17     (0.11)   0.11    (0.01)   0.09   0.12   0.05   0.00     0.00    (0.00)
  White                             0.27      0.32    0.56     0.25    0.50   0.56   0.38   0.03    (0.01)   (0.03)
  All                               0.22      0.07    0.32     0.12    0.34   0.39   0.28   0.03     0.02    (0.01)



String beans      (0.07)   (0.15)   (0.15)   1.38     2.00    2.18     2.05   1.83   2.22   0.34    0.01     (0.33)
Peanut             0.12     0.08     0.02    0.10     0.73    0.91     0.82   0.91   0.91   0.13    0.04     (0.10)
Ampalaya           0.06    (0.09)    0.03    0.30     0.31    0.25     0.47   0.36   0.51   0.07    0.05     (0.02)
Pili               1.68     1.46     1.68    1.74     1.74    1.57     1.64   1.80   2.34   0.06    0.14      0.09
Sweet Potato       0.52     0.62     0.87    0.79     0.78    0.83     0.95   1.00   0.97   0.05    0.06      0.00
Cassava            1.69     1.25     1.15    1.51     1.43    1.24     1.90   1.67   1.74   0.04    0.11      0.06
Mongo              0.71     0.74     0.77    0.60     0.52    0.76     0.89   0.91   0.94   0.03    0.10      0.07



26
  BAS data on costs and returns imputes the shadow cost of factors of production using the monetary prices for
these factors prevailing in the area. The use of full costs and returns concepts, which are computed by summing both
the cash and non-cash components, is more appropriate because it factors in the opportunity cost of the factors of
production, including land.


                                                             40
Potato               1.20    1.31     0.93     0.96        1.24    0.65   1.18     1.45     1.40     0.02      0.11     0.09
Cashew               1.01    1.36     1.23     0.39        1.43    1.51   1.02     1.14     1.33     0.02     (0.06)   (0.08)
Tomato               0.38    0.67     0.21     0.79        0.42    0.57   0.64     0.63     0.55     0.02      0.03     0.01
Calamansi            1.90    1.07     2.06     1.18        1.60    1.99   2.21     1.48     1.55     0.02     (0.06)   (0.08)
Coffee               0.87    0.58     0.26     0.57        0.38    0.55   0.60     0.73     0.76     0.01      0.09     0.08
Habitchuelas         0.31    0.21     0.24     0.31        0.27    0.04   0.37     0.35     0.34     0.01      0.05     0.04
Milkfish                                                                  0.88     0.96     0.99     0.06
Onion-Bulb                                                                1.33     1.15     1.74     0.21
Onion-Native                                                              0.97     0.76     3.90     1.46



Carrot               3.03    1.30     1.32     2.07        1.82    1.52    1.75     2.04     2.14    (0.02)    0.12     0.13
Cabbage              1.09    0.12     0.61     0.46        0.35    0.33    0.70     0.52     0.43    (0.02)    0.04     0.06
Watermelon           2.18    2.94     1.76     1.72        2.69    1.83    2.11     2.26     2.09    (0.03)   (0.08)   (0.05)
Eggplant             0.26    0.36     1.60     0.17        0.26    0.09    0.35     0.18     0.35    (0.05)    0.03     0.07
Papaya               0.27    0.24     0.06     0.03        0.01    0.09   (0.03)   (0.15)   (0.29)   (0.06)   (0.08)   (0.03)
Mango                2.13    1.92     1.66     1.63        1.73    1.57    1.32     1.33     0.98    (0.12)   (0.17)   (0.06)
Durian               2.01    0.83     1.16     1.22        0.74    0.53    0.52     0.73     0.25    (0.16)   (0.08)    0.08
Pineapple            3.52    3.18     2.81     3.40        2.25    2.16    1.74     1.96     1.76    (0.23)   (0.12)    0.12
Cauliflower          4.50    1.94     3.07     2.97        1.31    0.51    1.20     1.07     1.04    (0.38)    0.00     0.38
Garlic                                                                     0.93     0.88     0.42    (0.25)

Slope1: slope of the trend line for the entire sample
Slope2: slope of the trend line for the sample 2004-2008
Diff: slope1-slope2

Source: Bureau of Agricultural Statistics


Economic and Financial Rates of Return of Infrastructure Sub-Projects

This report covers the sub-projects under the DFIMDP's second component: market development
investments. A sample of sub-projects undertaken in Regions 6 and 7 (Western and Central Visayas,
respectively) was used to infer their financial and economic benefits. The updated parameter estimates
were based on the reports of the project proponents and the staff of the DA's Regional Field Units in
Western and Central Visayas.

1. Construction/Rehabilitation

Farm-to-market Roads. Based on field information collected by the project proponents and the RFU
staff FMRs are etimated to have yielded significant financial and economic net benefit. (Refer to Table
5). Much of the benefits accrue from the savings in hauling cost and in vehicle operating costs. In most
cases, it is assumed that there will be 5% percent savings in hauling cost.. FMRs that are located in areas
where there are more economic activity are expected to yield additional benefits, not quantified in the
analysis, due to greater savings in vehicle operating costs and in hauling costs. See Attachment C for an
example of how the economic and financial rates of return for the rehabilitation of one of the project's
FMR were computed based on field information.

Bagsakan/Trading Centers. There are five bagsakan / trading centers which were partly financed
through the project. Among these sub-projects, four have feasibility studies: three from Region 6 and one


                                                                  41
from Region 7. All these sub-projects yield respectable internal rates of return, adding value to the wealth
of the proponents as well as the economy.

The main benefit that was considered in evaluating these projects is the savings from the reduction of
post-harvest losses. The proponents acknowledge that a shaded bagsakan/trading center protects the
produce of the farmers from the heat of the sun and preserves its value by about 10%. Incremental income
is also generated by the sub-project proponents through the collection of fees from those who avail of the
facility. The estimated benefits are rather conservative since they are premised on the assumption that
there is only one market day per week. The increase in the utilization of the facility will significantly
improve the estimated contribution of the project to the economy

2. Acquisition of Hauling Trucks

There were seven hauling trucks which were acquired through the project. To have an indicative value of
these projects, three sub-projects were evaluated. Results show that they contribute value to the
proponent's wealth and to the economy as a whole. Much of the success of these projects stem from the
fairly high utilization rate of the trucks. Since the proponents are all cooperatives, the trucks have a good
market base.




                                                     42
                Table 5. Financial and Economic Assessment of Sub-Projects

                  Project                     Location          Project Cost    ENPV         EIRR
1.0. Construction/Rehabilitation
1.1 Farm-to-market Road
1.1.1 Foot path / wheel path
Rehab of Brgy. Batga, Jona & Badiang   Tubungan,Iloilo                818,449     -293,955          -7%
Rehab of Kabalas - Bandila             Toboso, Negros Occ.          7,276,791   -1,525,539           7%
1.1.2. FMR Rehabilitation/Upgrading
Rehab, Bingawan, Iloilo                Bingawan, Iloilo               865,381    5,004,810      117%
Rehab, Jamindan, Capiz                 Jamindan, Capiz                865,381      519,525       24%
Rehab of Brgy Cadabdab                 Tubungan, Iloilo             1,105,854   10,403,671      295%
Rehab of San Miguel, Dolores           Dumalag, Capiz               2,000,394    7,334,336      141%
Upgrading of Poblacion-Pawa Buntod
Rd                                     Panay, Capiz                 3,025,680    7,130,131          47%
1.2 Bagsakan Center/Trading Post
Iloilo Mango Growers Cooperative       Leganes, Iloilo              2,000,000    1,134,661          26%
Libertad, Antique. LGU                 Libertad, Antique            1,000,000    1,275,190          42%
Poblacion Tabuc MPC                    Mambusao, Capiz              1,000,000      254,921          19%
Sierra Bullones, Bohol LGU             Sierra Bullones, Bohol       1,000,000      496,461          19%
1.3 Other Facilities
Packing House                          Capiz MPC, Roxas City        1,000,000      341,713          60%
Irrigation Project                     Mambusao                       922,746    1,514,718          88%
GK Greenhouse                          Toledo City, Cebu              100,000      620,358          41%
Spring Reserve                         Maria, Siquijor                135,000      305,355          21%
Corn Mill                              Carlos P Garcia, Bohol         490,000    1,818,167          36%

2.0 Acquisition of Hauling Trucks
NEED MPC                               Sagay City, Negros Occ        501,350      306,890           41%
FACOMA MPC                             Sta. Barbara, Iloilo          500,900      565,338           61%
AMSP Marketing Coop                    Patnongon, Antique            485,000      742,651           80%




                                                                      43
Attachment A: Trade data on total and agri-food exports from the Philippines to the European Union, Japan, and the US.

                                                                 Table A-1: Export Indicators
                         2000            2001            2002               2003               2004          2005          2006          2007          2008
Total Imports of Major Economies, (million USD)
USA                1,258,080.3     1,180,073.8     1,202,284.5        1,305,091.6        1,525,268.5   1,732,320.8   1,918,997.1   2,017,120.8   2,164,834.0
Canada              240,090.7        221,623.4       222,440.1         240,376.2          273,873.7     314,444.4     350,018.1     380,353.9     419,778.6
EU                  913,277.7        876,782.4       884,557.3        1,057,625.6        1,278,653.1   1,465,519.5   1,697,724.9   1,967,525.9   2,284,917.4
Japan               379,662.9        348,613.2       337,608.9         383,452.0          455,253.8     515,866.4     579,063.9     622,243.3     762,533.9
Total              2,791,111.6     2,627,092.8     2,646,890.7        2,986,545.5        3,533,049.1   4,028,151.1   4,545,804.0   4,987,244.0   5,632,063.9


Total Agri-based Imports of Major Economies, (million USD)
USA                  54,542.2         55,127.3        58,378.3          64,186.3           70,594.4      77,006.2      86,027.6      93,029.8     101,079.5
Canada               12,552.2         13,208.6        13,829.6          15,347.9           16,441.0      18,290.6      20,765.8      24,357.4      27,620.3
EU                   58,828.1         60,946.0        64,360.8          75,999.9           87,508.4      92,844.3     101,556.9     124,078.6     146,588.1
Japan                50,423.4         47,278.8        46,347.9          48,864.5           54,653.3      55,674.8      54,243.3      57,390.6      68,260.7
Total               176,346.0        176,560.7       182,916.6         204,398.6          229,197.1     243,815.9     262,593.7     298,856.3     343,548.6


Total Imports of Major Economies from the Philippines (million USD)
USA                  14,453.9         11,774.5        11,430.9          10,495.8             9,581.4       9,693.8     10,136.5        9,812.6       9,099.7
Canada                  944.8           632.9            709.4             698.6              736.0         760.6         873.6         716.1         790.1
EU                     8,465.5         7,171.9         7,890.3            8,068.1            8,596.1       8,116.1       8,090.3       7,736.2       7,802.5
Japan                  7,198.9         6,401.6         6,540.0            7,048.8            8,252.5       7,700.0       7,960.0       8,731.2       8,426.2
Total                31,063.1         25,980.9        26,570.6          26,311.3           27,166.0      26,270.5      27,060.3      26,996.2      26,118.4


Total Agri-based Imports of Major Economies from the Philippines (million USD)
USA                     703.7           668.7            679.3             764.7              845.7         897.9         978.4        1,061.9       1,317.3
Canada                   45.0             43.8            51.5              55.3               68.5          70.4          83.3          88.3         107.0
EU                      364.9           389.3            446.6             522.8              523.3         572.9         594.1         700.4         898.4
Japan                   744.5           654.1            732.3             751.1              869.3         917.9         893.7         961.8        1,258.5
Total                  1,858.0         1,756.0         1,909.7            2,093.8            2,306.9       2,459.2       2,549.5       2,812.5       3,581.2


                                                                                    44
                                                                  Table A-1: Export Indicators
                                                                        (Continuation)

                         2000             2001            2002            2003          2004     2005   2006   2007   2008
Total Imports of Major Economies from the Philippines (per cent share)
USA                       1.15            1.00             0.95            0.80          0.63    0.56   0.53   0.49   0.42
Canada                    0.39            0.29             0.32            0.29          0.27    0.24   0.25   0.19   0.19
EU                        0.93            0.82             0.89            0.76          0.67    0.55   0.48   0.39   0.34
Japan                     1.90            1.84             1.94            1.84          1.81    1.49   1.37   1.40   1.11
Total                     1.11            0.99             1.00            0.88          0.77    0.65   0.60   0.54   0.46


Total Agri-based Imports of Major Economies from the Philippines (per cent share)
USA                       1.29            1.21             1.16            1.19          1.20    1.17   1.14   1.14   1.30
Canada                    0.36            0.33             0.37            0.36          0.42    0.39   0.40   0.36   0.39
EU                        0.62            0.64             0.69            0.69          0.60    0.62   0.58   0.56   0.61
Japan                     1.48            1.38             1.58            1.54          1.59    1.65   1.65   1.68   1.84
Total                     1.05            0.99             1.04            1.02          1.01    1.01   0.97   0.94   1.04



Source of basic data: WITS, World Bank.




                                                                                  45
Attachment B: Sub-projects carried out under Component 2 of the Project

                                      Department of Agriculture-RFU 7
                         Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
                                  Status of Sub projects, as of June 30 2009

       Name of Sub-projects/Recepient/Partner                  Cost                      Status
Program Contract CY 2006
1. Construction of Farmers Trading Posts                        2,000,000
  · San Jose, Negros Oriental LGU                               1,000,000   Construction stopped
  · Sierra Bullones, Bohol LGU                                  1,000,000   Completed
2. Construction of Greenhouses                                   200,000
  · Gawad Kalinga, Toledo City                                   100,000    Completed and functional
  · Bacong, Negros Oriental LGU                                  100,000    Completed and operational
3. Construction of Banana Processing                              50,000
  · Sogod Development Cooperative                                 50,000    Procured and functional
4. Installation of Drip Irrigation System                         45,000
  · Gawad Kalinga, Toledo City                                    22,500    Installed
  · Bacong, Negros Oriental LGU                                   22,500    Installed
5. Development of Springs                                        270,000
  · Maria, Siquijor LGU                                          135,000    Completed and functional
  · Lila, Bohol LGU                                              135,000    Completed and functional
Program Contract CY 2007
1. Establishment of Corn Mill
  · Carlos P Garcia, LGU Bohol                                   490,000    Completed
2. Acquisition of Shredder
  · San Antonio Organic Farmers Assoc., Sagbayan,                 75,000    Completed
    Bohol

Source: Department of Agriculture RFU 7 as reported by the World Bank




                                                  47
                                   Department of Agriculture-RFU 6
                       Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
                             Status of Sub projects, as of August 31, 2009

       Name of Sub-projects/Recepient/Partner                Cost                      Status
Program Contract CY 2005
1. Procurement of Mech. Dryer                                  325,000   Completed: already utilized by
     · Zarraga MPC, Zarraga, Iloilo                                      the proponent
2. Procurement of Flatbed Dryer                                370,000   Procured and delivered;
     · TQB MPC, Maayon Capiz                                             operational
3. Upgrading of Poblacion-Pawa Buntod Road                   5,000,000   Completed - September, 2007
     · Municipality of Panay, Panay, Capiz
4. Rehab of Brgy. Batga, Jona & Badiang                        666,000   Completed
     · Footpath/wheelpath
     · Municipality of Tubungan, Tubungan,Iloilo
Program Contract CY 2006
1. Rehab of Brgy Cadabdab, Lanag Norte,                      1,000,000   Completed
    · Bikil-Molina, Nagba and Ten Benito Road (.45
         km)
    · Municipality of Tubungan, Tubungan, Iloilo
2. Rehab of San Miguel, Dolores, Nueva FMR                   2,030,000   Completed
    · Municipality of Dumalag, Dumalag, Capiz
3. Rehab of Cabug-Cabug (Boac) - Carmencita (Matinog)        1,660,000   Completed
Road
    · Municipality of Pres. Roxas, Capiz
4. Construction of Bagsakan Center                           2,000,000   Completed
    · Iloilo Mango Growers Coop., Leganes, Iloilo
5. Construction of Packing House                             1,000,000   Completed w/ screen & ceiling
    · Capiz MPC, Roxas City
6. Rehab of Kabalas - Bandila Road/Footpath                  2,660,000   Completed
  · Municipality of Toboso, Negros Occidental                4,640,000   (2007 fund)
Program Contract CY 2007
1. Procurement of Refrigerated Van & Agricultural            2,576,000   Procured and delivered;
Tools/Equipment                                                          operational
  · Capiz MPC, Roxas City
2. Rehab of Tigum - Lapayon Road                             2,000,000   Completed
  · Municipality of Pavia, Iloilo

(continued on the next page)




                                                    48
                                  Department of Agriculture-RFU 6
                      Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
                            Status of Sub projects, as of August 31, 2009
                                           (continuation)

      Name of Sub-projects/Recepient/Partner                  Cost                     Status
Supplemental/Savings CY 2007
Procurement of Hauling Truck                                    500,900   Procured and delivered;
  · SEMPC, San Enrique, Negros, Occidental                                operational

Procurement of Hauling Truck                                    501,350   Procured and delivered;
  · NEED MPC, Sagay City, Negros Occidental                               operational

Procurement of Hauling Truck                                    468,000   Procured and delivered;
  · Mambusao Fed. of Farmers MPC, Mambusao, Capiz                         operational

Rehab of Sitio Utod Mambusao, Jaena Norte FMR                 1,200,250   84% completed; work cannot
 · Municipality of Jamindan, Jamindan, Capiz                              proceed due to inclement weather

Rehab of Small Farm Reservoir (SFR)                           1,000,000   Completed
  · Municipality of Bingawan, Bingawan, Iloilo
Procurement of Flatbed Dryer                                 290,238.94   Procured and delivered;
  · Pototan Seed Grower MPC, Pototan, Iloilo                              Operational
Acquisition of Hauling Truck                                    500,900   Procured and delivered;
  · FACOMA MPC, Sta. Barbara, Iloilo                                      operational
Provision of Irrigation Project                                 922,746   Completed
  · Municipality of Mambusao
CY 2008 Program Contract
Construction of Trading Post
  · Libertad, Antique                                         1,000,000   Completed
  · Mambusao, Capiz                                           1,000,000   Completed
Procurement of Banana Chippers
  · Tubungan Federation of RICs                                  75,000   Procured and delivered
  · Passi City RIC                                              280,694   for delivery (approved only last
                                                                          June,2009)
 · Women of Mambusao Brigade                                     75,000   for delivery
Hauling Trucks
 · Antique Muscovado Sugar Producers Marketing                  485,000   Procured and delivered
   Coop, Patnongon, Antique
 · NESCA Cooperative, Kabankalan, Negros Occ.                   356,376   Procured and delivered
 · Aklan Seed Growers, Kalibo, Aklan                            470,000   Procured and delivered

Source: Department of Agriculture RFU 6 as reported by the World Bank




                                                 49
Attachment C: Financial and economic analysis of a Farm to Market Road rehabilitation
Sub-Project: the case of Bingawan Ilo-Ilo, 0.5km.

The main benefits considered in computing the economic and financial rates of return of the
rehabilitation of farm-to-market roads under the DFIMDP consist in savings in vehicle operating
costs (VOC) and in hauling costs (HC). The analysis assumes therefore that in the without project
scenario the road would continue in the same condition and said savings would not materialize.
VOC savings were computed for four different types of vehicle classes: jeepneys, trucks,
motorcycles, and tricylces. Savings in VOC pert kilometer are obtained from DPWH tables and
depend on the specific type of rehabilitation undertaken. Total savings for each vehicle class
depend on the average number trips per day per vehicle class (Table C1) and on the length of the
road. These savings are assumed to increase as a result of the increase in the demand for
transport. The latter is a function of population and income growth, respectively assumed to be
equal to 2.5% and 2.0%.

Table C1: Savings Vehicle Operating Costs
                                Jeepney / Fiera      Truck          Motorcycle   Tricycle     Total

Number of Vehicles                  10.00             5.00             25.00
Number of Trips per day              1.00             1.00             4.00
Average Trips per day                 10               5                100         -
Operating days per year              365              130               365
Average Trips per Year              3,650             650             36,500        -
Savings per km                      10.427           18.381            2.551      6.481
Total Savings, Yr1 (Php)          19,029.28         5,973.83         46,555.75      -       71,558.85
Note: Total savings reflect the total length of the rehabilitated FMR, 0.5 km.

Savings from hauling costs were computed for the relevant crops produced in the area. In the case
of Bingawam these are palay, pineapple, root crops, vegetables, coconut, banana, coffee,
sugarcane, and corn. For each crop the total volume of production harvested and marketed was
computed based on interviews with farmers, owners of transport vehicles and other relevant
stakeholders. The reduction in the hauling costs was determined to be 5% of the value of the
marketed crop (Table C2).

Capital investments are reported in Table C3. They consist of equipment, construction materials,
and skilled and unskilled labor. Shadow prices for labor and equipment and material are obtained
by applying discount factors obtained from NEDA. Finally recurring maintenance costs are
assumed to consist mainly in labor costs are the same as those assumed in the feasibility study.

Computation of the economic and financial rates of return are reported in Tables C4 and C5. The
analysis assumes a planning period of 10 years in addition to the initial period during which the
investment costs are incurred. The economic rate of return is estimated at 117% while the
financial rate of return based on a discount rate of 12% is equal to 119%. These high rate of
returns are justified on the basis of the savings in hauling costs and VOC that can be obtained
with a limited investment such a rehabilitation of a FMR. The rates of return are very sensitive to
the precision with which the savings from hauling costs are estimated. For instance, a reduction in
the cost of hauling from 5% to 3%of the value of marketed crops leads to a reduction in the
economic rate of return from 117% to 72%.



                                                     50
Table C2: Hailing cost savings
                                                            Root
                                    Palay     Pineapple     Crops      Vegetables   Coconut     Banana     Coffee     Sugarcane         Corn        Total
   Area Harvested (hectares)        250          10           30           10          10         57         4           100             48
  Yield per hectare (MT/ha)         2.75         48           10            6           3         10         3            60             3.8
   Total volume of harvest
       marketed (MT)                688         480          300           60          30        570         12         6,000           182
     Price per kl (Php/kl)           10          18           20           10           4         11         20           2              10
    Total Value of Havest
          (Php,000)                6,875        8,640       6,000         600         120       5,985       240         9,000          1,824
 Savings in Hauling cost (%)        5.0%        5.0%        5.0%          5.0%        5.0%       5.0%       5.0%         5.0%           5.0%
 Total savings in hauling cost
             (P)                  171,875     216,000      150,000       15,000       3,000    149,625     6,000       225,000         45,600      982,100

Assumptions: (i) Percent marketed surplus = 50%; hauling cost ex ante = 15% of marketed surplus; hauling cost ex post = 10% of marketed surplus.




                                                                             51
Table C3: Capital investments:


                                          Financial Cost                           Economic Cost (at current prices)
 Direct Cost                        Add: Taxes         Add:          Total                      Add:            Total
    Item             Base Cost         and          Contingency    Financial    Base Cost +  Engineering     Economic
                                    Contractors                                 Contingency
                                      Profit           Cost          Cost          Cost      Supervision        Cost


Materials            378,725.98   83,319.72          46,817.90    508,863.60    425,543.88                 510,652.66

Equipment            159,482.06   35,086.05          19,715.09    214,283.20    179,197.15                 215,036.58

Labor                                                                           -

 Skilled             71,535.88    15,737.89          8,843.23     96,117.00     80,379.11    55,000.00     135,379.11

 Unskilled           34,322.96    7,551.05           4,242.99     46,117.00     38,565.95                  23,139.57

 Subtotal            105,858.84   23,288.95          13,086.21    142,234.00    118,945.05   55,000.00     158,518.68


Total                644,066.89   141,694.71         79,619.20    865,380.80    723,686.09   55,000.00     884,207.91

                                                                                -


Tax rate                                       12%
Contractors Profit                             10%

Contingency Cost                  79,619.20
Shadow Price: Matrials and
Equipment                         1.20

Shadow Price: Skilled Labor       1.00

Shadow Price: Unskilled Labor     0.60




                                                                               52
Table C4: Summary of the economic analysis
Summary of Results:
EIRR
                          Improvement of Farm-to-Market
Project Name              Road
Proponent                   LGU-Bingawan, Iloilo
Unit                        Php


Year                                0              1              2              3              4              5              6              7              8              9            10
I. Costs

Initial Investment          (884,208)
Opportunity Cost of Land
Working Capital invetment

Maintenance                             (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)
Improvements

Total: Costs                (884,208)   (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)       (20,226)


II. Net Benefits
   Vehicle Operating Cost
Savings                                 71,559         75,070         78,753         80,215         81,754         83,375         85,082         86,879         88,773         90,766
    jeepney / fiera
                                        19,029         20,078         21,184         22,351         23,583         24,882         26,253         27,700         29,226         30,836
    truck
                                        5,974          6,243          6,525          6,819          7,127          7,448          7,784          8,135          8,502          8,885
    motorcycle
                                        46,556         48,749         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045
    tricycle
                                        -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -

  Savings in Hauling Cost               982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100        982,100




                                                                                 53
  Others

  Total: Net Benefits                 1,053,659   1,057,170   1,060,853   1,062,315   1,063,854   1,065,475   1,067,182   1,068,979   1,070,873   1,072,866


III. Terminal Cash Flow

IV. Net Cash Flow for
FIRR                      (884,208)   1,033,433   1,036,944   1,040,628   1,042,089   1,043,629   1,045,249   1,046,956   1,048,754   1,050,647   1,052,641


EIRR                           117%

NPV                       9,556,763

Key assumptions in determining increases in VOC and HC savings:
Population growth rate: 2.5%
Income growth rate: 2%




                                                                      54
Table C5: Summary of the financial analysis

Summary of
Results: FIRR
                       Improvement of Farm-to-Market
Project Name           Road
                       LGU-Bingawan,
Proponent              Iloilo
Unit                   Php


Year                           0              1              2              3              4              5              6              7              8              9            10
I. Costs

Initial Investment     (865,381)
Opportunity Cost of
Land
Working Capital
invetment

Maintenance                        (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)
Improvements

Total: Costs           (865,381)   (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)       (24,082)


II. Net Benefits
   Vehicle Operating Cost
Savings                            71,559         75,070         78,753         80,215         81,754         83,375         85,082         86,879         88,773         90,766
    jeepney / fiera
                                   19,029         20,078         21,184         22,351         23,583         24,882         26,253         27,700         29,226         30,836
    truck
                                   5,974          6,243          6,525          6,819          7,127          7,448          7,784          8,135          8,502          8,885
    motorcycle
                                   46,556         48,749         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045         51,045
    tricycle
                                   -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -




                                                                                    55
  Savings in Hauling
Cost                                982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100     982,100
  Others

  Total: Net Benefits               1,053,659   1,057,170   1,060,853   1,062,315   1,063,854   1,065,475   1,067,182   1,068,979   1,070,873   1,072,866


III. Terminal Cash
Flow


IV. Net Cash Flow
for FIRR                (865,381)   1,029,577   1,033,088   1,036,772   1,038,233   1,039,772   1,041,393   1,043,100   1,044,898   1,046,791   1,048,785


FIRR                       119%
Discount Rate                12%

NPV                     5,001,849

Key assumptions in determining increases in VOC and HC savings:
Population growth rate: 2.5%
Income growth rate: 2%




                                                                           56
57
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Dominic Reyes Aumentado      Procurement Specialist            EAPCO
Jonas Garcia Bautista        Consultant                        EASTE
Luningning J. Bondoc         Consultant                        EASRE
Douglas A. Forno             Consultant                        EASRE
Flordeliza A. Lantican       Consultant                        EASRE
Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   Operations Officer                EASPS
Andrew Garcia Mendoza        Program Assistant                 EACPF
Guia Minguez                 Consultant                        EASRE
Jose Tiburcio Nicolas        Operations Officer                EASSO
Joseph G. Reyes              Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO
Leonardo M. Rodaje           Consultant                        EASRE
Esperanza Sadiua             Program Assistant                 IEGKE
Noel Sta. Ines               Procurement Specialist            EAPCO
Tomas A. Sta. Maria          Consultant                        EAPCO
Roberto B. Tordecilla        Operations Officer                EASPS
Cesar Umali                  Consultant                        EASRE
Felizardo Jr K. Virtucio     Operations Officer                EASPS




                                            59
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       8                        80.96
  FY03                                      21                       203.63
  FY04                                      29                       178.97
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            58                       463.56
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.10
  FY04                                                                 0.56
  FY05                                      14                        61.02
  FY06                                      12                        58.56
  FY07                                      14                        60.26
  FY08                                      19                        68.72
  FY09                                       9                         0.00
                          Total:            68                       249.22




                                       60
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Project specifically provided for a Client Satisfaction Survey at the commencement of the
project, and around the time of loan closing. While the first survey was undertaken, the DA has
yet to follow through on the second survey, which was a dated covenant under the loan. Delayed
action on the part of Government is expected to result in the terminal survey results becoming
available only by June 2010. Nevertheless, the DA should be commended for adhering to this
commitment even though project funds could no longer be tapped for this purpose. The
following summarizes the finding of the first client survey, which showed a low level of
satisfaction with DA services. The results of the survey did, however, reinforce the need for the
DA to give greater attention to providing market oriented services in line with the goals of the
DFIMDP. The full survey results are available in the Project file (see Annex 8)

Beneficiaries Surveyed: The study conducted household survey interviews, key informant
interviews and focus group discussions with individual farmers, LGU staff, farmer leaders in the
focus areas and some key officers of farmers associations and NGOs. It covered the four
priority areas of DFIMDP, namely: i) La Trinidad Valley in Benguet and Mountain Province
in the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR); ii) Iloilo and Capiz coastal zone in Western
Visayas (Region VI); iii) Cebu and Negros Oriental in Central Visayas (Region VII); and
iv) Bukidnon in Northern Mindanao (Region X). A total of 487 farming households were
interviewed for the household survey, comprising of 432 farmers and fishers from target or focus
municipalities of DFIMDP. The key informants consisted of 24 LGU staff, 3 farmer association
leaders, 12 trader/processor/exporter, and 7 from the NGO/industry association/government
sector.

Overall 'Satisfaction Rating' of Market-Oriented Services: Only six (6) percent, on average,
were aware of the market-oriented services of the DA. Still, not all of those who were aware of
the services had accessed the services. The majority (71%), albeit comprising only 4% of total
farmers, had availed of the services. Of those who had accessed the services, 81 percent found
them generally 'satisfactory'

Familiarity and Confidence with 'Agriculture Personnel: As expected, there were more
farmers who were familiar with and, hence, more confident to get assistance from the
Agricultural Technician (AT) assigned in their area or with the Municipal Agricultural Officer
(MAO) rather than with the Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO). About half of the farmer-
respondents affirmed familiarity with ATs in their respective localities although slightly less (42
%) expressed confidence that they can get assistance from their AT for concerns in improving
product and market. Of the LGU staff interviewed, 18 of 24 were aware of these services and 6
had a high level of satisfaction while 9 had a medium level and also 9 had a low level of
satisfaction. Among the reasons for satisfaction of the LGU staff were in its support for
market encounter meetings and trade fairs and the provision of technical trainings, such as for
the certification of seed producers.

Needs Assessment: The needs in the DA's market-oriented services that were gleaned from the
survey can be grouped into three aspects: 1) reach, 2) particular market oriented service, and 3)
sustainability of service. This section also includes needs for particular services that seem to be
lacking from among the services of the DA.

i)      Reach of market-oriented services: The low level of percentage awareness for market-
        oriented services among the households indicate the necessity of implementing steps that


                                                 61
        would widen and lengthen the reach of disseminating efforts that such services are
        available.

ii)     Particular Market-Oriented Services that the Clients need: The survey noted the
        following market-oriented services needed by the 'client' aside from what the DA has
        been delivering so far. (a) Stable Prices. While recognized to be difficult for the DA to
        achieve, the experience from Region 10 was cited whereby a major association of
        vegetable growers, instead of doing crop programming, maintains data of production
        volume and dates of harvest so their members are on deciding what they will plant today.
        The approach in Region 10 seemed more workable than the crop programming being
        envisioned by the informants in the CAR, and (b) Special Marketing for IPM products.
        More effort was considered needed by the DA to overcome lack of consumer
        differentiation between IPM or organically grown vegetables and those grown with
        commercial chemicals.

iii)    Sustainability of service: For a sustainable delivery of market-oriented services, the
        following feedback was obtained: (a) Need for Committed field personnel or professional
        agribusiness services. The survey noted models of contract growing cooperatives
        allowing their members to implement market driven production with quality controls
        being practiced at the farm level, and (b) Participatory planning from 'down-to-up'. The
        participatory approach of the 'Operations Manual' of the DFIMDP was considered an
        important aspect for the sustainability of projects. Centrally planned projects were felt to
        be often politically motivated.

To the extent that the project did not achieve a change in the way in which the DA does business
or in reorienting its service to be more market-oriented, it would seem reasonable to assume that
the results of the 2006 Client satisfaction Survey remain valid as of loan closing in 2009.




                                                62
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

In order to supplement the analysis that will come from the terminal client satisfaction survey and
to validate the findings of the IL-ICR team, two separate rounds of stakeholder consultations
were conducted. The first round of discussions involved a series of separate meetings with the
whole range of stakeholders involved in the design and implementation of the DFIMDP. This was
followed by a workshop with key agencies and opinion-makers having strong influence over
shaping the direction of agriculture development strategies and policies. Details of these
stakeholder consultations are given in Annex 6 and its attachments, and provide a solid validation
of the key points raised in the IL-ICR.

The main findings and conclusions of these consultations are the following:

i. AFMA and PEM Reforms - The goals and directions of AFMA and the PEM reforms
continue to be relevant and responsive to the development needs of the sector and the country.
There is, however, a disconnect between policy and implementation due to a narrow view of the
AFMA, weaknesses in the government's expenditure management system, and the ineffective
oversight of reforms. Specifically on the AFMA, there is a general acceptance by policy makers
and the bureaucracy of rice production targets as a proxy for agricultural development. This may,
in part, stem from the ambiguity in AFMA as to what is meant by way of ensuring "food
security" and "self-sufficiency in staple food production".

ii. The DFIMDP - The PDO and the design of the DFIMDP are consistent with the AFMA and
PEM reforms. The project, however, failed to meet its PDO mainly because of the lack of DA
management support. There was also broad agreement that governance issues lay at the heart of
many of the difficulties encountered in implementing the project, summed up by the observation
that "it is easier to lose one's job due to political reasons than due to accountability". It was
suggested the "program loan" approach of the DFIMDP would have been a more effective
instrument if the implementing agency had been one of the Oversight Agencies. A counter-
argument pointed out that the responsibility for reform lay with the DA and there are limits to
what the Oversight Agencies (specifically DBM) could or should do if the responsible agency
doesn't want to reform.

iii. The Department of Agriculture - The DA is believed to be highly politicized, with its
leadership changing frequently due to shifting political positioning of the President. Thus, many
have expressed frustration on the difficulty of making the right decisions for agriculture because
they are mostly based on political repercussions. The DA is an ideal political tool since the
government's budget system allows a wide latitude of discretion in the allocation of funds by the
DA secretary. This was experienced in the DFIMDP where the amount already allocated for
market-oriented support was siphoned for production support during implementation.

iv. Policy Oversight ­ The Oversight Agencies in both the Executive branch and the Legislature
can effectively facilitate and promote the implementation of PEM and AFMA reforms through its
supervision of the development budgeting process. There are, however, systemic weaknesses in
both branches of government that have resulted in an inadequate oversight of the sector.
Especially troubling to the stakeholders was the apparent continuing lack of understanding of the
issues by legislators. The representatives from the legislature admitted that they don't even know



                                                63
the appropriate questions to ask the DA on these reforms. They need technical assistance and
ready access to relevant information. While on the side of the executive Oversight Agencies, they
are only as effective as the President allows them to be, and it was felt that the DA had greater
clout with the President.
v. Civil Society and Farmers' Groups ­ This sector felt that they have no effective influence
over DA decision-making. They have had not much, if any, strategy-level engagement with the
DA. This is due, in part, to a lack of technical capacity and information. Meanwhile, civil society
groups who have the capacity to engage the DA at the strategic level lack the funds for sustained
research and impact analysis. Thus, civil society's focus of engagement with the DA has been
largely limited to transparency and governance issues. Consequently, there has been no civil
society lobbying for PEM and AFMA reforms. There is, therefore, a need for more coordination
with the academe, research institutions, oversight agencies as well as with other development
partners to capacitate civil society to more meaningfully engage with the DA.

vi. The Private Sector ­ Although the AFMA espouses private sector participation, the sector
felt that government-established mechanisms for public-private consultations are largely
ineffective, token and may not be fully representative. The National Agriculture and Fisheries
Council (NAFC), for instance, is perceived to be a rubber stamp of the DA Secretary.
Furthermore, it has not been convened by the DA Secretary for quite some time. There has,
therefore, been no effective platform for the private sector to be adequately informed about, to
monitor and to lobby for AFMA and PEM reforms. On market-oriented services that are
supposed to be delivered by the DA, the private sector feels that these are very inadequate and
unsystematically provided. For instance, market promotion services were accessed by the private
sector through their own initiatives and personal contacts within the DA. They also found public
laboratory services to be slow and not very reliable, and private laboratory services to be
expensive especially if samples need to be sent to Manila. Meanwhile, on rice trading, the private
sector strongly feels that government lacks transparency and has been crowding them out.

vii. The LGUs and Other Stakeholders With the devolution, the responsibility for the delivery
of agriculture and fisheries services, including FMRs, was given to the LGUs. However, the
financial resources necessary for the LGUs to do this additional responsibility was not devolved.
It was also suggested that, if the AFMA is geared towards the market, the Department of Trade
and Industry (DTI) should play a more active role in its implementation.

viii. The role of the World Bank - The Bank was seen as the source of technical information
that can bridge the knowledge gap among the various stakeholders of AFMA and PEM reforms.
Assistance was requested from the Bank to help this process by providing regular briefings and
technical inputs on the key issues, including details of the flawed rice self-sufficiency policy
pursued by the current administration. The oversight bodies in the legislature were especially
keen on establishing a regular venue for knowledge sharing with the Bank.

ix. Decision Support Tools - The government's M&E system doesn't seem to be up to the task
of providing timely and sufficient information for the oversight bodies, and even the DA, to
assess the implementation and results of policies and programs. There appears to be weak
documentation of what has been done, reports have been lacking, and thus, at the time of decision
making, the right data were not available leading to faulty decisions. More particularly, the
stakeholders mentioned that the Strategic Agriculture and Fisheries Development Zones
(SAFDZs) under the AFMA have not functioned even after 12 years. They said that this should
be revived with more technical content, such as the facilities and infrastructure existing in the
area, including the State Colleges and Universities (SCUs) that could support research and
development, telecommunication facilities, ports and airports.


                                                64
65
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower's Project Completion Report

The Borrower's Project Completion Report (PCR) concludes that most of the targeted activities
of each project component/ cluster were generally accomplished in spite of some implementation
drawbacks. The PCR pointed out that the project activities that were not finished as scheduled
were continued in the following year. Some implementing units also provided regular funds to
finance their activities especially when funds under the project were not released on time. The
five-year duration of the project was, however, considered inadequate to implement all targeted
institutional and public expenditure reforms, especially since the first two years were spent
grappling at mainly procedural issues.

The implementation difficulties, especially during the first two years, were traced mainly from
the lack of understanding by the implementing units regarding the nature of the project, i.e.,
budget support where no additional funds will be provided by the Bank. However, although a
range of orientations on the project were conducted, various implementing units were still
reluctant to enroll activities under the project. The lack of appropriations cover or the minimal
committed appropriations cover for the project PAgs as well as the de-tagging of project-specific
SAROs were cited as major contributing factors to the project's low disbursement rate.

Regarding the Borrower's performance, the PCR cited the various institutional support provided
by the DA to the DFIMDP, e.g., i) the Project Advisory Board (PAB), to provide overall
guidance; ii) the Technical Working Group (TWG) on Consultancy Services and a designated
procurement officer, to fast-track procurement; iii) the RPAB and the Regional Technical
Secretariat, to conduct technical and financial feasibility of sub-projects; among others. The PCR,
nevertheless, pointed out that ad hoc in nature of these bodies, especially the TWG, sometimes
makes it impossible for them to gather and deliver outputs on schedule hence delaying activities.

Regarding the DA's implementation partners, the PCR noted that the participating LGUs, NGOs
and private sector, especially in Region VI, were cooperative, participative and willing to comply
with the cost-sharing arrangements. For other regions, however, participation was hindered by the
project's 50:50 NG-LGU cost-sharing requirement especially since there are other windows with
a much lower cost-sharing or grant-type of projects.

The PCR considers the Bank to be instrumental in influencing the DA management and, to some
extent, the Oversight Agencies (i.e. NEDA and DBM) to prioritize projects and activities under
the DFIMDP. Its close and regular monitoring of program activities and coordination meetings
with all partner agencies were also cited to have helped resolve implementation bottlenecks/
constraints. Nevertheless, some Bank actions and procedures were pointed out which the
Borrower believes may have complicated project implementation. An example is the execution
of multiple contract arrangements among implementing and operating units during the initial
stages of the project, which has, however, been eventually resolved.

The PCR mentions the following lessons and good practices learned from the DFIMDP
(especially from the implementation experience of DA-RFU 6): (i) strong linkage and
coordination, and collaborative efforts among private sector, people's organization and the LGUs
resulted in the accomplishment of the subprojects as scheduled and within estimated cost; (ii)
clear delineation of the roles and responsibilities of each party facilitated project implementation;



                                                 67
(iii) cost-effective projects were implemented due to the rigid review of the proposals by the
RPAB with the proponents defending their proposals before the said body; (iv) projects were
being identified by the proponents themselves through consultations, dialogues, assemblies, fora
and other means; (v) participative planning employed by the proponents resulted in projects based
on their local needs and priorities; and, (vi) cost-sharing arrangements is good since the
proponents has a sense of ownership and the Department has more funds for additional projects to
be implemented.

In retrospect, the PCR also mentioned that project implementation could have been better if the
following were done: (i) harmonized guideline on the different windows for implementing DA
infrastructure and other postharvest projects; (ii) the same interpretation of financial rules and
regulations on the release of funds, disbursements, and liquidations as well as other procedures;
(iii) timely release of funds; (iv) the Department's priorities is in synch with the objectives of the
project; (v) there is enough manpower to accomplish scheduled activities; (vi) proper turn-over of
documents and briefing were done especially when there were changes in the focal persons and
management team; (vii) full understanding of the project's Operations manual; and (viii) full
support and commitment of management specifically on providing budget allocations for eligible
activities under the project.

The PCR recommends the following action to DA management as a result of the DFIMDP
experience: (i) ensure serious commitment in implementing loan projects to avoid commitment
charges; (ii) for future projects that have the same features as DFIMDP, budget cover must be
assured before the start of the project; (iii) construction/rehabilitation works may also be
undertaken by force account or administration since LGUs have also the technical capability to
undertake works and profit accruing to contractors may augment the funds for the works hence
longer FMRs may be rehabilitated; (iv) reduction of the proponent's equity; (v) creation of
Regional Sub-Project Management Office; (vi) consider SUCs as sub-project proponents; (vii)
harmonization of guidelines on project implementation specifically the counter-parting scheme;
(viii) monitoring of completed project by LGUs, DA and farmer-beneficiaries should continue to
ensure sustainability of project benefits; (ix) follow-through activities should be done to achieve
sustainability of projects that has started; (x) strengthen the capacities and improve the processes
of the BAC of the Department since most of the hiring of consultancy services and procurement
of goods took a long time to process; (xi) a Project Management Office (PMO) specifically
focused in the project should also be created to be held accountable for the overall
implementation of the project; (xii) the Project could have been better implemented if personnel
assigned were exclusively tasked to undertake or coordinate the Project's different activities, to
focus more in achieving the target activities and objectives; and (xiii) the milestones achieved by
the implementing agencies in this Project must be sustained and should be considered as a regular
program, project and activity and therefore the yearly budgetary requirement should be included
in the budget proposal by the Department.

The complete PCR can be found in the Project Files (Annex 8).




                                                 68
Borrower's Feedback on the DFIMDP-ICR

Highlights of the Discussions of the DA27 on the Draft DFIMDP Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)

                     Issues                                 Comments/ Recommendations
     Overall                                         DA generally agrees with the findings,
                                                     conclusions, and recommendations of the
                                                     DFIMDP ICR.
     I.   Assessment of Outcomes                     DA agrees that the PDO and the secondary
                                                     outcomes were not achieved and, as a result,
                                                     the overall outcome rating should be
                                                     Unsatisfactory and the risk to outcomes is
                                                     High.

                                                     At the same time, the DA feels that the
                                                     following should be highlighted: i) most target
                                                     Intermediate Outcomes were met; and ii) this
                                                     implies that DA has sufficient implementation
                                                     capacity and project failure is not due to any
                                                     inadequacies therein.

                                                     DA-RFU 6, in particular, would like to
                                                     highlight the following benefits they derived
                                                     from the project: i) closer and more
                                                     harmonious relationship between the DA-RFU
                                                     and the LGUs/communities; ii) effective
                                                     increase in development budgets of the
                                                     participating LGUs; iii) enhanced skills among
                                                     the participants in FS and procurement; and iv)
                                                     application of acquired skills to other projects.

                                                     The DA would also like to correct the ICR's
                                                     conclusion that the project M&E arrangements
                                                     were not implemented as designed. The report
                                                     stated that the main project reporting was
                                                     undertaken mainly by the 5 component clusters
                                                     and not by the PMED. The DA explained that
                                                     operational M&E was the responsibility of the
                                                     DA-FOS, while outcome/ impact M&E was the
                                                     responsibility of the PMED. As such, PMED
                                                     was responsible for project reporting for the
                                                     Planning cluster. The PMED and the FOS then
                                                     submitted their report to the PAB secretariat for


27
  Held on 25 May 2010 at the Field Operations Service (FOS) Conference Room of the DA-Central Office.
Participants include Assistant Secretary Romy Recide, FOS Director Roy Abaya, and representatives of the
5 DFIMDP Component Clusters: Planning Service, PMED, PPD, FOS, FMS, BAR, ATI, BAFPS, AMAS,
BPI, SPCMAD, and DA-RFU 6.



                                                  69
                                            consolidation and reporting to the PAB.

                                            The DA also attempted to undertake the M&E
                                            of the project's secondary outcomes through an
                                            IDF-funded grant project. This initiative was,
                                            however, unsuccessful due to, among others,
                                            the inadequate engagement and follow-through
                                            by the participating LGUs.

                                            The DA also provided updates on the status of
                                            the terminal Client Satisfaction Survey (CSS)
                                            of the DFIMDP, which is one of its loan
                                            covenants. The winning bidder backed out of
                                            the engagement forcing the DA to redo the
                                            bidding process. Hence, the CSS results will
                                            not be available by July 2010, as originally
                                            intended, but would most likely be available by
                                            December 2010 instead.
II. Key Factors Affecting Implementation    DA agrees that the main factor for the
       and Outcomes                         DFIMDP's poor performance was the
                                            weakening of management support and
                                            commitment to AFMA and PEM reforms
                                            during project implementation, and that the
                                            proposed political economy explanation for this
                                            change in policy position is plausible.

                                            DA agrees that the other factors that
                                            exacerbated project performance include: i)
                                            negative perceptions on the SIM instrument; ii)
                                            eventual easing of the DA's budget constraints;
                                            iii) multiple NG:LGU cost sharing
                                            arrangements; iv) bureaucratic instability in the
                                            DA; v) capacity constraints in FM and
                                            procurement; and vi) the 2007-2008
                                            international rice crisis.

                                            The DA further dispelled the assertion in some
                                            quarters that the DFIMDP was forced upon the
                                            DA by the Oversight Agencies. DA
                                            management was fully aware and supportive of
                                            the reforms the project was supposed to
                                            promote during project preparation. In the
                                            course of project implementation, however,
                                            priorities shifted and the management `s desire
                                            for budget flexibility remained strong.
III. Assessment of Bank and Borrower        The DA agrees with the ICR's assessment on
        Performance                         and MS rating of the Bank's performance
                                            during project preparation and project
                                            supervision.

                                            Nevertheless, the DA wants the Bank to further


                                           70
                       examine whether Bank procedures can be
                       further be strengthened as well as simplified to
                       effectively prevent very late actions on certain
                       DFIMDP activities such as the AFMIS (2 years
                       processing time) and the irrigation evaluation
                       (4 years delayed and not yet done to date). The
                       DA, however, admits that their internal
                       processes were mostly responsible for these
                       late actions.

                       The DA agrees with the assessment on the MU
                       rating for the Government's performance. In
                       fact, the DA considers the stalling of MFO-
                       based budgeting as a major factor behind the
                       DFIMDP's poor performance.

                       The DA, however, asked the Bank to examine
                       the possibility of upgrading the Implementing
                       Agency's performance rating from
                       Unsatisfactory to Marginally Unsatisfactory
                       given that the DA was able to achieve most of
                       its target Intermediate Outcomes (IO) and the
                       single IO they were not able to achieve was due
                       to an external factor beyond their control.

                       DA-FMS would also like the Bank to take note
                       that, even though the transactions under a SIM
                       loan is difficult, they, nevertheless, did their
                       jobs to the best of their abilities, especially on
                       the review and evaluation of project contracts.
IV. Lessons Learned    DA agrees with the lessons cited in the ICR.
                       They, nevertheless, asked the Bank to compare
                       the performance of the NPS projects in other
                       government agencies (e.g., DepED, DoH) with
                       that of DA's to determine what conditions
                       should be set in place and what strategies are
                       needed for this type of project to be effective.
Other Concerns         Submission of other comments and
                       recommendations should be submitted to DA-
                       Planning for consolidation by May 28, 2010

                       DA-Planning to inform Oversight Agencies to
                       submit their inputs to DA-Planning for
                       consolidation

                       DA to officially send comments and
                       recommendations to the Bank no later than
                       June 3, 2010 with or without inputs from
                       Oversight Agencies




                      71
Additional DA Comments to the draft Intensive Learning Implementation Completion
Review (IL-ICR) for the Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project
(DFIMDP)28


       1. In letter F (Results Framework Analysis) under Data Sheet; and pages 13 & 48:
       Please note that the result of Terminal evaluation tor DFIMDP will not be available by June
       2010 as scheduled since the SEA Consultants, Inc. has decided to withdraw last October 2009
       from the DFIMDP Terminal Evaluation and Client Satisfaction Survey. They were given a
       Notice to Proceed and a signed contract in August 2009. However, during the pre-audit, they
       were not able to satisfy the requirements of the Commission on Audit hence delaying the
       project for several months now. A re-bidding was requested and by June 2010, BAC is
       scheduled to announce the winning bidder. The evaluation will be conducted in 4 months.

       2. On page 3 under Key Factors.Affecting Implemontation and Outcomes:

       Although some of the project development objectives were not met, it would also be good to
       note that most of the target intermediate outcomes were achieved and the Department
       continues to complete the remaining activities targeted under the project.

       3. On page 9, under M&E Implementation and Utilization:

       From the start of the project, PMED has not agreed to the M&E design. Hence. a Technical
       Secretariat for the project, headed by Dir. Roy Abaya was created under Special Order Nos.
       302 and 389 series of 2007. It was stated that:
       -SPCMAD and cluster heads will be responsible for the review and consolidation of quarterly
       and annual Financial Monitoring Reports (Physical Progress).
       -SPCMAD will monitor the implementation of activities and progress made by the IAs/IUs.
       PMED will monitor and evaluate project results pursuant to the loan agreement and project
       appraisal document.

       The Technical Secretariat periodically reports to PAB the status, updates and concerns of the
       project.

       May we also inform you that PMED regularly submits to World Bank the status of outcome
       Indicators including some of the secondary outcome indicators (refer to annex 1). A DFIMDP
       Baseline and Client Satisfaction Survey was also conducted in 2006. The Departrnent
       together with NEDA and DBM also conducted a DFIMDP Midterm Review in 2007.

       Admittedly. the Department's M&E system remains weak despite the various efforts done to
       improve it. The reason for this may not be due to the limited value given to M&E but because
       with its limited staff capacity, PMED is tasked with loads of responsibilities i.e., providing
       the technical demands of the Management, oversight agencies, the Presidential Management
       Staff, and the Office of the President. This is in addition to the tracking of the achievement of
       quantitative output targets and field evaluation,
       4. On page 16 under the DF1MDP:



28
     Sent by the DA Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning Perceles Manzo to the Bank on June 4, 2010.



                                                     72
   The project failed to meet its PDO mainly because of other priorities based on the
   clamor of the DA clientle and not because of lack of DA management support.

   5. On page 17 under Policy Oversight:

   We agree that the M&E system of the Department cannot provide timely information
   which we attribute to the devolution of provincial and municipal Agricultural
   technicians to the Local Government Units, However, we provide sufficient information
   to oversight agencies and initiated efforts in the implementation and results of programs,

   6. On page 25 under Component 2: Market Development Investments:

There are 34 sub-projects (19 sub-projects were noted in the report) implemented in RFU 6.

NAFC's comments/response to the item on Policy Oversight, which states that "Private
sector feels that the government ­established mechanisms for public-private consultations
are largely ineffective and token. " ­ The effectiveness of DA's consultation mechanisms has
been limited by the inadequate amount of funds that was provided, especially at the municipal
level. Nevertheless, much have been accomplished in spite of these resource constraints.




                                               73
Annex 8: List of Supporting Documents


   1. Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act. Republic Act No. 8435 of 1997

   2. Implementing Rules and Regulations pursuant to Republic Act 8435. Department of
      Agriculture Admin. Order 6, Series 1998.

   3. Action Plan for Strengthening Regulatory Laboratory Capacity for Major Agricultural
   4. Exports: A proposal of the Quality Assurance Cluster. Bureau of Agriculture and
      Fisheries Product Standards, Sept. 26, 2007.

   5. Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project. Mid-Term Review, NEDA.
      November 2007.

   6. Financing Agriculture Modernization: Risks & Opportunities. Policy Brief- Senate
      Economic Planning Office. February 2009

   7. Philippines: Agriculture Public Expenditure Review. A Technical Working Paper.
      World Bank, East Asia and Pacific Region. June 2007.

   8. DFIMDP Baseline and Client Satisfaction Report (2006 February-March). Volume1.
      SEA Consultants. July 2006.

   9. DFIMDP Aide Memoir- Eighth Supervision and Initial ICR Review (April 27 to May 8,
      2009).

   10. Summary table of inputs from the first round/series of stakeholder consultations

   11. List of participants in the first round/series of stakeholder consultations

   12. DFIMDP IL-ICR Stakeholder Workshop. September 25, 2009. Power-Point presentation

   13. DFIMDP IL-ICR Stakeholder Workshop. September 25, 2009. Summary of
       proceedings/discussions and list of participants.

   14. FM Consultant's reports
            a. Financial Analysis
            b. Comparative Table of Reporting Requirements and Procedures
            c. Status of Implementation of Recommendations in Prior Reports
            d. Financial Management Questionnaire

   15. The Department of Agriculture's Project Completion Report (PCR) on the DFIMDP




                                               74
