Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2476a-BD
FILE CO PY Y
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 30, 1979
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =      Taka (Tk)
Iaka I                  =      Paisa 100
Taka 1                  =      US$0.0645
Taka 1,000,000          =      US$64,516
US$1                    =      Tk 15.5
US$1,000,00             =      Tk 15,500,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I kilometer (krn)                  =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                        =      39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)               =      1.31 cubic yard (cu yd)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)                      0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram (kg)                    =      2.204t pounds (lb)
1 kilo calorie (kcal)              =      3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilogram standard coal
equival]ent (kg ce)              =      7,000 kilo calor:ies (kcal)
1 imperial gallon (imp gal)    =          4.545 liters (1) = 1.2 US gallon
1 kilovolt (kV)                    =      1,000 volts (v)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)            =      1,000 volt-amperes (VA.)
1 megawatt (MW)                    =      1,000 kilowatts ",kW)
1 gi.gawatt hour (GWh)             =      1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -   Asian Development Bank
BWDB       -   Bangladesh Water Development Board
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
cif        -   Cost, Insurance, Freight (International shipping clause)
ECNEC      -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EPWAPDA   -   East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
ERD)       -   External Resource Division of the Ministry of Finance
GOB        -   Government of BangLadesh
HSD        -    ligh Speed Diesel
IERR       -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
KfW        -   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LRMC       -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
ODM        -   Ministry of Overseas Development of the United Kingdom (ODM)
OPEC       -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Count-ries
PEC        -   Project Evaluation Committee
REB        -   Rural Electrification Board
SGV        -   Sycip, Gorres and Velayo
UNDP       -   Ulnited Nations Development Programme!
USAID      -   Ulnited States Agency for Internatiornal D)evelopment
BPDB'S FIS,CAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR ............................                  1
A.    Energy Resources  ..................................                1
Natural Gas ........          ..........................      1
Hydro Power ........          ...........................     1
Coal and Peat ..............                                 2
oil .                                                        2
TraditionaL Fuels  .................  ......                 2
B. The Power Subsector.                                                   3
Rural Electrification Board.                                  3
External Assistance ..                                       4
Existing Facilities ..                                        4
Access to Service and Status of Supply                        5
System Losses.                                                6
Pattern of Consumiiption.                                    6
Forecast of Electricity Consumption.                          7
BPDB's Development Program.                                   7
II. THE BENEFICIARY.                                                             9
Historic Background.                                          9
BPDB's Corporate Existence and
Responsibilities.                                          9
Organization and Management  ......          ............    10
Management Improvement Effort  .....           ...........   11
Personnel ..................................  11
Training .................................... 12
III.    THE PROJECT  .       ...........................................    12
Objectives  .......         .......................... .   12
Description  .......         ...........................    12
Project Cost .......          ...........................    13
Project Financing Plan ...........           .............   14
Engineering and Implementation  ......           ..........   16
Storage of Materials ........... ..............   16
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Stichenwirth and V. Antonescu and is
based on information obtained during a preappraisal missicn in December 197T
and an appraisal mission in February 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autihorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
III.    THE PROJECT (Cont'd)
Procurement ..................................    17
Disbursements  ................................    17
Project Approval .............................    17
IV.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ......................................    18
Past Financial Performance ...................    18
The Financial Recovery Plan ....            ..............    18
System Loss Reduction Program ....          .........    19
Power System Rehabilitation Program .......    20
Management Improvement Effort .....         .........    20
Tariff   .....................................         20
Future Improvement ............................    21
Debt Restructuring ............................    22
Future Financial Situation ................ ..    22
Financing Plan ..............  .    24
Onlending Terms ......          ........................    25
Accounting Consultants .....          ...................    25
Billing and Collection .......................    26
Audit .........................                            26
Insurance ..........................            . .    27
Rural Tariffs .............          .    .     . .    27
V.   JUSTIFICATION    ...............................        ,   .  . .     27
Demand ............................... .    27
Economic Rate of Return .......................    28
Risks .........................                            29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....             ..............    29
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ....          .......    29
Other Agreements .............................    29
Recommendation ...............................    29
ANNEXES
1.   Generating Capacities and Maximum Demand
2.   Historic and Forecast Sales, Generation and Maximum Demand
3.   Investment Program
4.   Summary of President's Order No. 59
5.   BPDB's Organization Chart
6.   Training
7.   Project Cost Estimate
8.   Estimated Construction Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Financial Statements



- 11i1 -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
Page 1          Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1977/78-1984/85
Page 2          Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
1978/79-1984/85
Page 3          Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets 1977/78-1984/85
Page 4 & 5      Notes on Financial Statements
11.   Recommendations of Accounting Consultants
12.   Terms of Reference for Tariff Consult:ant
13.   Internal Economic Rate of Return
14.   Documents Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD 14182






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
1.01       Bangladesh's per capita consumption of commercial energy is amaong the
lowest in the world amounting to only 33 kilogram standard coal equivalent 1/
(kg ce) in 1976.  This compares with an average consumrption of 426 kg ce of
commercial energy for all developing countries and 2,069 kg ce for the world
as a total. The per capita consumption of commercial. energy in the world
ranged from 11 kg ce (Nepal) to 25,236 kg ce (Qatar). 2/ Total energy consump-
tion per capita in Bangladesh, including traditional f.uels, amounted to some
140 kg ce in 1973/74.
Natural Gas
1.02       NaturaL gas is the main known commercial energy resource of Bangladesh.
There are seven fields, all located in the East, with aggregate proven reserves
of about 250 billion cubic meter (cu m) or some 20 years of use when the high
growth rate in consumption of 30% per year is assumed.  Four of the fields --
Sylhet, Chatak., Rashidpur and Titas --- are in commercial operation.  The gas
is of high quality with a methane content ranging from 94.3% to 99.1%.  In
addition, there are probable reserves of about 320 billion cu m. Unfortunately,
no comfmercial quantities of gas have so far been identifiecl i r1 iWhe West zone,
although exploration indi-cates that natural gas may be found in thle Barisal
district and the areas of Rajshahi and Natore.  At present,, gas is being used
mainly as raw material for fertili.zer plants and as fuel for power stations in
thle East zone.
Hydro Power
1.03       Although two of the world's largest rivers, the Ganges and the
Brahmaputra, flow through Bangladesh, they do so over a flat deltaic area.
The prospects for economic hydroelectric development are therefore limited.
The northern, portion of the Brahmaputra river has potential for a darn site with
an estimated output of some 400 MW of firm power, but the size and large cost
of this project make it only a remote possibility.  The smaller rivers of the
Southeasterrn part of the country in the Chittagong Hill Tracts have some pot.en-
tial. So far, only the Karnafuli. ri.ver has been developed. to an installed
capacity of 80 MW with a further 50 MW under construction at the Kaptai dam.
1/   1 kilogram standard coal equivalent = 7,000 kilocalories.
2/   World Energy Supplies 1972-1976, United Nations, New York 1978.



Two additional units with an installed capacity of 50 MW each are planned for
1985. The energy from these projects must be utilized during the monsoon
season for reservoir control, and the flow of water from the reservoir during
the dry season is further constrained by irrigation requireraents. An overall
survey of the hydroelectric potential of the country has not: been carried out.
Although some additional potential may be identified, it is not expected to be
substantial.
Coal and Peat
1.04      Good quality coal with a heat value of about: 6,200 kcal/kg exists
in Northwestern Bangladesh, in the Bogra distri.ct, wit.h total reserves esti-
mated at over 1 billion toiis.  While this exceeds the equivalent of the
proven natural gas reserves, the deposits are at a depth of 850 to 1,060 m
under soft water-bearing strata.  Their extraction would require sophisti-
cated and costly soil-freozing techniques, and it i.s understood that their
exploitation would be uneconomic and would reqluire more than a decade before
meaningful quantities could be extracted.  I.The underground gasification of t-he
coal also does not appear to be technicallv feasible. Currently, small. quan-
tities of coal are imported from India.
105      There are some peat deposits in the Faridpur and Khulna districts.
However, the individual fields are relatively small and lie under prime
agricultural land. For these reasons, the mining of lpeat appears to be
neither technical.ly practical nor economic.
Oil
1.06      Extensive exploration for oil, has been going on for more than 15
years, but so far without positive resu'Lts.  Areas for offshore exploration
have beern identified following recommendations of commercial studies by
foreignI experts in 1973.  At present, the country's oil requirement is covered
by imports, partly in the form of crude oil, which is refined in Bangladesh's
only refinery, located at Chittagong.  The refinery which has been in opera-
tion since 1968 has a rated processing capacity of 1.5 million tons, but has
niever produced more thanl 1 million tons per year.  Heavy oil and other petro--
leum products from the refinery are used for power generation in the western
zone where no local alternative fuel is available.
Traditiona:L Fuels
1.07      For all practical purposes, the only indigenous entergy r,^sources
other than natural gas are the traditional fuels common to most agricultural
based developing countries - firewood, vegetable and animal wastes. According
to the Bangladesh Energy Study prepared in 1976 by a group of consultant firms,
administered by the Asian Development Bank (AD%) under a United Nations Devel-
opment Programme (UNDP) project, traditional fuels in FY74 accounted for 73.4%
of the country's total energy consunmption, compared with 13.1% for imported
petroleum products, :10.4% for natural gas, 2.1% for imported coal and 1% for
hydroelectricity.



- 3 -
B. The Power Subsector
1.08      Bangladesh is divided into two zones -- East and West -- by the
Ganges-Brahmaputra basin. The East zone contains the two main commercial
and industrial centers: Dacca, the capital, and Chittagong, the country's
mnajor port. Khulna, the country's third largest town, and Mangla, an import-
ant harbor under construction, are located in the West zone.  The annually
flooded Ganges - Brahmaputra delta has hindered in the past the construction
of road and rail communications as well as electric power interconnections
between tlhe two zones.
1.09      At the time of partition from India in 1947, the installed capacity
in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) was about 21 MW, of which 12.5 MW was ownecl
by industry, 7 MW by private utilities and the balance by various small enter-
prises.  Per capita consumption of electri.city was only about 0.33 kWh.  During
the following decade, the Government took over most of the private utilities
and developed additional power facilities, mainly in the form of local gener-
atirig stations.  Under the 1961-65 and 1966-70 Five-Year Plans, major g#n-
;iaiig y stations were constructed at Siddhirganj, Kaptai and Ashugan' and an
integrated transmission system was created in the Eastern zone through the
1.32 kV transmission lines Kaptai-Chittagong-Siddhirganj, and Siddhirganj-
Sylhet.  In 1970, the total installed capacily was 535 MW whiich generated
1,106 GWh, sat:isfying a maximum simultaneous demand of only 233 MW. There
wiere about 1,040 km of lines 33 kV and below.
1.10      During the hostiLities of 1971 which led to the independence of
Bangladesh, power facilities suffered sdbstantial damaave, electricity gener-
ation collapsed and inaximuma demand dropped to 30 MW.  In 1972, the Bangladesh
Power Development Board (BPDB) was set up as a separate entity under the
Ministry of Power, Flood Control and Water Resources (para 2.02).
1.11      At the policy making level, the two main Government institutions
involved in the power industry are (i) the Planning Commission which coor-
dinates the development of the power subsector with that of other sectors
and sanctions all schemes costing more than Tk 5 million 1/; and (ii) the
Ministry of Power, Flood Control and Water Resources which supervises the
subsector. Nuclear development policy is under the direct auithority of
the President oE the Republic.
Rural Electrification Board
1.12      Until recently, BPDB was the sole Government agerLcy responsible
for generation, transmission and distribution of electric power in Bangladesh.
1/   Projects costing up to Tk 5 million are submitted to the Planning Com-
mission which may recommend changes, but the final decision rests with
the Ministry. Project:s costing more than Tk 5 millioni are evaluated
by a Project Evaluation Committee (PEC), chaired by the Member, Planning
Commission in charge of the sector and submitted to the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) for formal approval.



In October 1977, the Rural Electrification Board (REB) was created and given
the responsibility for power distribution in rural areas, through cooperatives.
Although the transition period is expected to require several years, REB will
ultimately take over the entire responsibility for rural electrification,
which may also include power supply of industries not only in rural but also
in certain urban areas to be established by the Government. 1/  The influence
of REB's activity on BPDB's financial situation and th,e necessary steps to
be taken to ensure BPDB's financial viability in the future are discussed in
paragraph 4.27.
External Assistanco-
1.13      Bangladesh has been successful in the past in securing foreign
funds for the development of the power sector from various sources. However,
domestic resources mobilized for development have been scarze in relation to
the requirements of the economy. Since most of the foreign lenders are
prepared to finance only the foreign cost of projects and eKpansion schemes,
the power sector as other segments of the economy has suffered from a shortage
of local counterpart funds which has delayed project implementation. Of the
projects presently under execujtion, USAID is providing funds for the 50 MW
extension of the Kaptai hydroelectric plant (US$2.5 million) and Czechoslovakia
has been approached for financing of two more 50 MW units. The same country
is assisting in the installation of the 60 MW steam pLant in Chittagong and
the 110 MW steam unit for the extension of the Khulna station. Sweden is
providing about US$3 million for the installation of a 12 NW combustion
turbine in Khulna and the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany
has made available about US$5 million for a 20 MW gas turbine in Bheramara.
Recently Japan has agreed to finance two 28 MW combustion t.urbines (barge-
mounted) fGr Khulna.  Various lenders are providing financial assistance for
transmission and distribution projects, the most notable being ADB (US$27.7
million for Chittagong distribution), the United Kingdom (US$50 mitLion for
Greater Dacca distribution), the Kuwait/ Abu Dhabi Funds (US$38.5 million for
the East-West Interconnector) arLd USAID (US$50 million for rural electrifi-
cation). The United Kingdom has also indicated its intention to provide about
US$55 million for a rural electrification project thr-ouigh cooperatives.  In
addition, various donor agencies are providing funds for technical assistance
mainly in the field of training.
Existing Facilities
1.14      The two separate (eastern and western) power systems cover all four
of the country's administrative divisions which are subdivided into 19 districts.
In 1978, BPDB's installed capacity, including isolated systems, totalled 752
MW, 526 MW (70%) in the East zone and 226 MW (30%) in the West zone (Annex 1).
In addition, there is some 120 MW of captive power, owned by different indus-
tries, among which thie largest are the steam stations at the paper mills in
Khulna (24 MW) and Chittagong (28.5 MW), the steam station at the fertilizer
1/   Rural Electrification Board Ordinance LI of 1977, signed by the Presi-
dent of the Republic on October 29, 1977.



- 5 -
plant in Fenchuganj (36 MW) and the combustion turbine station at the fertil-
izer plant in Ghorasal (16 MW). A combustion turbine station with two 15 MW
units is under construction at the fertilizer plant in Ashuganj. None of
these captive power stations is connected to the grid; instead th'eir role is
to provide standby capacity to make up for failure of supply from the grid.
Due to the unequal distribution of energy resources in the country, all power
plants in the West zone are using imported petroleum products, while most of
the power generation in the East zone is based on indigenouS natural gas and
hydro electricity.
1.15      In 1978, the overall power system included some 1,600 km of 132 kV
transmission lines, 5,000 km of 66 and 33 kV sub-transmission lines and 13,200
km of 11 kV and low voltage distribution lines.
1.16      A provisional load dispatch center is in operation at the Sidhirganj
power station and communication between all important power plants and sub-
stations is maintained by transmission line carrier communication. A new
despatch center at Sidhirganj adequately equipped to ineet the future require-
ments of the interconnected system, is being built under Canadian Aid and is
due to be commissioned in 1979.
Access to Service and Status of Supply
1.17      Total energy generated by BPDB's power plants in FY78 was 1,912.8
W'4h, 1,444.3 GWh (77.5%) in the East zone and 908.3 GWh (24.5%) in the West
zone.  In 1978, approximately 320 of the country's 422 tharLas 1/ were served
by electricit:y and less than 3% of the 65,000 villages were electrified.  The
total number of consumers served by BPDB had reachied some 403, 500 -- whic h is
quite low for a country with 83 million inhabitants -- and the per capita
consumption was only about 15 kWh.
1.18      Of the installed capacity of 702 MW owned by BPD1B and connected
to the two grids (excluding isolated systems), only about 577 MW (82%) are
actually available (454 MW in the East zone and 123 MW in the West zone).
This compares with a maximum demand in 1978 of 287 MW in the East zone and 94
MW in the West zone. The situation is particularly critical in the West zone
where the only main base load unit, the steam turbine generator at the Khulna
power pLant with a rated capacity of 60 MW, has at present a maximum capability
of only 42 MW (Annex 1) due to boi.ler prob:Lemns. Any stoppage of this unit,
accide!ntal or for maintenance, leads to a total or partial breakdown of supply
in the West zone. The situation will not improve but rather deteriorate until
1983/84, when the planned interconnection between the East and West grids
would be operative and new base load units would be commissioned in both
parts of the country. To bridge this difficult period, BE'DB plans to install
reLatively large capacities of oil-Eired combustion turbines in the West and
operate them as base load units. This results in a higher average fuel con--
sumption and premature deterioration of generating equipment which, however,
cannot be avoided due to lack of alternatives at present.
I/   Thana is an administrative sub-unit: of a district.



- 6 -
1.19      At present, quality of service is poor.  There are frequent power
supply outages, and voltages as well as frequency are sometimes low and fluc-
tuating. One main reason for unreliability of supply, in addition to the
insufficiency of generating capacity in the West zone, is the inadequacy of
distribution facilities, especially in the Khulna district. Some lines are
too long and overloaded. There is also a great need for additional substation
capacity and more suitable network design, notably with respect to loop lines
and adequate relay control in order to provide alternate sources of supply.
The main purpose of the project is to improve this situation.
1.20      Another cause of the unsatisfactory supply is the lack of regular
preventive maintenance, particularly for generating facilities. This is due
to lack of spare parts and materials and insufficient trained personnel. The
problem of spares cannot be solved unless BPDB becomes financially viable to
be able to finance its import needs.  The problem of iaanpower :*'l be solved
only by developing adequate training facilities and training of large numbers
of personnel.
System Losses
1.21      For the past few years, power system losses including station con-
sumption have been over 35%, which is too high. According to BPDB's estimates,
these losses, which reached about 37% in fiscal year 1978, comprised some 26%
technical losses, the rest being attributable to unpaid consumption. It is
estimated that a substantial portion of the technical losses could be saved by
power factor correction.  In this regard, the appraisal mission suggested thatl
BPDB should examine the possibility of using the alternators of discarded
combustion turbine units as synchronous condensers. The losses in distribu-
tion networks (33 kV and lower voltages) are estimatedl at about 18% of total
generation. They are so abnormally high because of overloaded distribution
facilities, especially in urban areas like those included in the Project,
unpaid consumption due to pilferage and under-billing, and defective metering.
A loss reduction program is includedl i.n BPDB's financial recovery plan (para
4.07).
Pattern of Corsumption
1.22      Following independence and after overcoming the shock of the 1974
oil price increase, the consumption of electricity has incr-eased at an average
annual rate of about 13% during FY76-78. On an annual basis, sales have in-
creased by 11.6% in FY76, 8.7% in FY77 and 18.9% in FY78. The growth rate
was about 21% in the West zone and 10.5% in the East zone.
1.23      While industrial consumption is the largest single category, its
share of about 66%-68% has remained relatively unchanged. Similarly, not
much has changed in the share of comiercial consumption (about  M0).  Domestic
consumers accounted for about 20% of total consumption in :[973 but their
proportion had declined to less than 15% in 1978. The most rapidly growing
category was agriculture (on average 68.4% per year) as a result of strong
Government encouragement of this sector and BPDB's efforts to extend elec-
tricity supply to rural areas. This activity is expected to receive further



emphasis through the creation of REB (see para 1.12) as well as through
financial and technical support from USAID.
1.24      The main industrial consumption is for jute processing -- more or
less evenly distributed on both grids -- but there are also substantial blocks
of demand for chemicals and cotton textile mills (mostly in the East) and for
a steel mill in Chittagong.  Other industrial loads include a cement plant in
Chattak, an oil refinery in Chittagong, a shipyard at Khulna, three paper
mills (two in the West, one in the East) and numerous sugar mills which are
siostly located in the West. The present agricultural load consists mainly
of the Ganges - Kobadak Project at Bhermara, the Dacca - Demra Project near
Dacca, and a tubewell project at Thakurgaon in the Northwest.
Forecast of Electricity Consumption
1.25      BPDB has based its power market projections on the extrapolation
of recent historic trends, adjusted to take account of specific development
projects in the various sectors of thte economy. In doing so it deviated from
the projections contained in the UNDP Energy Study (para. 1.26) which, under
the immediate impression of the 1974 oil price increase, had assumed consider-
ably lower consumption increases than had actually materialized. For the
period 1979-85, power consumption is expected to increase at an annual avor.jQe
rate of 14.6%. The forecast rate is 17.6% in the West and 13.6% in the East.
The share of industry in total electricity sales is expected to decrease from
66% in 1978 to some 58% in 1985, and domestic consumption f-rom 14.9% to 12.9%.
As in the recent past, agriculture is expected to be the most rapidly growing
category (40.3% per year).  Its share of total consumption would reach 13.9%
in 1985.
BPDB's Development Program
1.26      BPDB's program for power development is based on the UNDP-financed,
ADB administered Bangladesh Energy Study, undertakern in Baag1aiVQ;' I 1'-)75,1?6
by a consortium of foreign consultants. 1/  The major objectives of the study
were: (i) to assess the prospects of utilizing natur-al gas for meeting
internal needs, and to determine the foreign exchange earning potential of
natural gas; (ii) to analyze various interr-elated energy supply projects and
determline their relevance anid priority for implementation up to the end of the
century; and (iii) to recommend an immediate investment program for energy
related projects in the period up to 1985.  The study concluded that the
presenrtly known reserves of gas will be used to meet interrnal requirements of
energy and fertilizer production only. Fertilizers should be used locally and
exported only if the domestic demand is lower than the total production.
Liquefication of natural gas for export, or alternatively production of
n-i-irl;ool was not recommended for irmmediate implementation.  The study recom--
mended early construction of further gas transmission pipe!lines, and the
expansion of gas distribution facilities to minimize imports of oil.
1/   Montreal Engineering, Canada; Meta Systems, USA.; Snamprogetti Spa,
Italy; and Carlo Lotti Associates, Italy.



1.27      A major recommendation of the Energy Study related to the power
subsector concerns the early construction of the inter-zone transmission inter-
connection across the Jamuna (Brahmaputra) River. The energy consultants
examined alternatives of an electrical interconnection and of a gas pipeline
between the East and West zone.  Both solutions pose difficult technical
problems but would lead to substantial savings in imported oil which, without
the interconnection, would be needed for the operation of power facilities in
the West zone.  The consultants recommended an electrical interconnection,
consisting of a 230 kV double circuit transmission line across the river.  This
conclusion is in conformity with the findings of a feasibility study for the
river crossing which was completed in 1970.
1.28      BPDB's investment program (Annex 3) is based on the Energy Study.
It consists of a number of ongoing projects which include an additional hydro-
electric generator under construction at Kaptai (50 MW), an oil/natural gas
fired steam unit at Chittagong (60 MW), both in the East zone, and a large
(110 MW) oil-fired steam unit at Khulna in the West zone. The decision to
install the two steam units goes back to the pre-independence period bult the
1971-hostilities and the lack of funds have delayed their completion. The
need for a 110 MW unit in the West zone is now debatable, however, since it
will be commissioned only two years before the scheduled completion of the
East-West interconnection in 1984. BPDB has also decided tc, install several
combustion turbine units in the West zone as an interim measure to prevent
further deterioration of supply in that part of the country. Extensions to
the 132 kV grid are under construction particularly in the West zone, where
the presently isolated diesel power systems are being integrated with the
main 132 kV grid.
1.29      BPDB's investment program FY79-85 is as follows (for details see
Annex 3):
Foreign   Local   Total        %
--- US$ million------
Generation                             274.8    181.1       455.9   49.8
1ransmission                            77.7      62.9      140.6   15.3
Distribution                           145.1    139.6       284.7   31.1
Other                                   21.0      13.9       34.9    3.8
Total (constant 1978 prices)           518.6    397.5       916.1  100.0
Escalation                             130.9    152.1       283.0
Total (current prices)                 649.5    549.6   1,199.1
A substantial part of the above investment program consists of projects
which were started in the past when the shortage of funds and the total
dependence on foreign aid for imported equipment prevented BPDB from adhering
fully to the least cost investment program suggested in the energy study. In
order to place power system planning on a sound basis, the Government, with
the assistance of BP'DB's planning department, will establish a long-range



- 9 -
power development plan for the country which is based on least cost solutions
and the availability of local fuel resources. The plan will also be useful in
identifying future projects to prospective donor countries/ agencies for their
financing. During negotiations the Government agreed to prepare and furnish
to the Association for its review not later than June 30, 1980, a draft of the
long-range power development plan; agreement was also reached on an annual
review of the plan in consultation with IDA.
II.  THE BENEFICIARY
Historic Background
2.01      Prior to the 1947 partition, the power sector of East Bengal had
developed on a private basis. Between 1947 and the late-1950s, a gradual
involvement of the Government in the sector occurred, at first through the
Government's Electricity Department and later through its Electricity Director-
ate. During this period, the Government took over a number of private utili-
ties and also developed additional power facilities, mostly, in the form of
isolated generating stations feeding local distribution networks. In 1959,
the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (EE'WAPDA) was created
to assure control of water resources and power development throughout the pro-
vince. In combining power and water (irrigation) operations, the Government
expected that the operation of multipurpose hydroelectric (lams and the agri-
cultural demand for power could be closely coordinated. EPWAPDA's power wing
took over the Electricity Directorate with all Government-owned power facili-
ties and gradually expanded by absorbing more private utilities. It also
commenced the task of integrating the main market areas in the east and west
zones of the country.
BPDB's Corporate Existence and Responsibilities
2.02      However, since there was no major site in the country suitable for
economic development of multipurpose projects, and realizing that EPWAPDA's
power wing could be operated on a commercial basis whereas the water wing is
entirely dependent on the Government: budget, the Government decided to sepa-
rate the two activities. Consequently, President's Order No. 59 of 1972 (as
amended) created the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), responsible
for the development and utilization of the country's water resources and
flood control, and BPDB, both under the supervision of the Ministry for
Power, FLood Control and Water Resources.
2.03      Although conceived as a semi-autonomous body wit:h corporate status,
BPDB in fact functions as a Government department charged with the responsi-
bility of carrying out Government instructions which are not only concerned
with policy decisions but also with day-to-day matters. ]3PDB's main respon-
sibilities are (for details see Annex 4):
(a)  preparation, for Government approval, of a comprehensive
plan for the development and utilization of power resources



- 10 -
as well as schemes for construction, maintenance and opera-
tion of power facilties;
(b)  construction and operation of generation, transmission and
distribution facilities; and
(c)  control over the operation of private power facilities, when
necessary.
Organization and Management
2.04      The Board's management consists of a Chairman and not more than
five members, aLl appointed by the Government. They are responsible for
generation/transmission, distribution, finance, personnel/training and plan-
ning. 1/ The period, terms and conditions at which the Chairman and the
members are appointed are solely at the discretion of the Government. Ap-
pointments and dismissals can be made by GOB at any time. This has led in the
past to frequent turnover and, despite the fact that most of the persons
promoted to top management positions have been chosen from among the members
of BPDB's staff, has resulted in lack of continuity. Also the Government
occasionally appoints individuals from outside BPDB. This would not be
undesirable if the candidate chosen had the proper background, but civil
servants with little experience in the specific field have sometimes been
appointed, on a fixed-term secondment basis, which also results in lack of
continuity.
2.05      BPDB's organization as illustrated in Annex 5 suggests well
defined lines of responsibility. In fact, however, this is not so. There
is little delegation of authority within the Board leading to excessive
corncentration of decision making at the level of top management. Overstaffing
creates inefficiency and cumbersome administrative procedures, and, last but
not least, the lack of an efficient internal reporting system leaves managers
at all levels insufficiently informed about the actual status of BPDB's opera-
tions and finances.
2.06      As indicated in paragraph 2.03, BPDB has only limited autonomy.
GOB has retained responsibility not only for policy formulation concerning
electric power development within the framework of the country's overall
development plans, but also for day-to-day matters such as creation of person-
nel positions and appointment of BPDB's officers, salary levels and structure
as well as budget approval and control.  Although undesirable in the context
of effective management, this is understandable in view oi- GOB's policy
to control the major sectors of the economy. However, the Government has
indicated that it wishes to use BPDB's expertise in system planning for
establishment of the long-range power development plan for the country (para
1.29). This is an important assignment ior BPDB involving the most suitable
entity in the process of power sector planning.
1/   The Member Planning has just been appointed.



- 11 -
Management Improvement Effort
2.07      ADB has taken the lead among aid agencies in trying to improve the
Board's efficiency. In the context of four previous loans, ADB has financed a
thorough review of BPDB's management (para 4.09).
2.08      Recognizing that BPDB's improvement cannot be achieved solely through
managerial changes, ADB initiated or supervised the following additional
activities:
(a)  preparation of the Bangladesh Energy Study (para 1.26),
which includes extensive recommendations concerning
the power sector;
(b)  preparation of a countrywide Power System Rehabilitation
Program (para 4.08);
(c)  provision of consulting services for establishing and
introducing an accounting system based on commercial
accounting principles (para 4.22); and
(d)  provision of consulting services for studying BPDB's
level and structure of tariffs (para 4.12).
2.09      Most of the above-described activities are just being started or
have been started only recently.  This accounts for the fact that BPDB is
still a utility with substantial deficiencies which under normal circumstances
would suggest: the introduction of a major institution building effort on the
part of IDA. However, under the prevailing circumstances, reinforcement of
ADB's endeavors rather than starting of new activities is considered more
conducive to BPDB's recovery.
Personnel
2.10      As of February 1979, BPDB had a staff of 20,200 of whom about 32%
were unskilled (messengers, sweepers). This translates to about one employee
for 20 customers and less than 40 kW installed capacity per employee. This
is excessive even when considering that BPDB's supply area is widespread and
that most of the recording, in particular accounting and billing, is carried
out manually. Salary and wage scales are set by the Government and are sub-
stantially lower than those in the private sector. When retirement benefits
are taken into account, the Board's salaries are even lower than those paid
by GOB.
2.11      ADB's management consultant (para 2.07) has made a number of recom-
mendations on how to improve personnel management. However, the Government's
practice of imposing its ideas about personnel management and structure, which
may be appropriate for Government departments but are counter-productive when
applied to a public utility, is bound to. make progress very slow.  The intro-
duction of a promotion system that is based not only on seniority but also on
performance would be an improvement.



- 12 -
Trainiing
2.12      Despite BPDB's large number of staff, there is a shortage of trained
personnel. This is mainly due to insufficient training because of shortage of
training material and resignation of personnel, usually the highly qualified
and ambitious employees.
2.13      Annex 6 describes in some detail the schooling and training facili-
ties available in the country and within the Board for the Icind of personnel
required for an electric power ut:ility. This project includes assistance
for BPDB's training center in Khulna where mainly training for power dis-
tribution specialists (foremen, linemen, cable jointers) is being carried
out (para 3.01). An extension of the training activities to cover operation
and maintenance for power stations is being contemplated. After completion of
the training center, an annual training capacity of about 300 employees is
envisaged.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is intended to:
(a)  rehabilitate, reinforce and expand the distribution systems
in the urban areas of the Khulna district, located in the
southwestern part of the country;
(b)  provide training facilities and teachers for BPDB's training
center in Khulna; and
(c)  contribute to an institution building effort through
strengthening BPDB's planning capability and improving
its financial situation.
Description
3.02      The Project consists of:
(a)  the improvement and development of the urban distribution
networks in the four towns of the Khulna district -- Khulna,
Bagerhat, Mangla and Satkhira -- involving approximately:
-    130 km of 33 kV overhead lines,
-    3 transformers of 132/33 kV, totalling 150 MVA,
-    8 substations, 33/11 kV, totalling 60 MVA,
-    105 pole mounted transformers, 33/0.415 kV,
totalling 14 MVA,



- 13 -
500 km of 11 kV overhead lines,
150 km of 11 kV and low voltage cables,
520 pole mounted transformers, 11/0.415 kV,
totalling 80 MVA,
rehabilitation of 33 kV, 11 kV and low voltage lines
totalling 320 km,
-    33,000 new consumer connections,
-    20,000 rehabilitated connections;
(b)  service vehicles and communication equipment;
(c)  consulting services for project engineering and implementation;
(d)  training equipment and training of personnel; and
(e)  operational buildings and staff quarters.
Project Cost
3.03      The estimated cost of the project is US$44.2 million equivalent,
of which US$20.4 million represent the foreign exchange component based on
the exchange rate at the time of appraisal. The estimated cost of the proj-
ect is set out in Annex 7 and summarized below:



- 14 -
------ Tk million -----   ----- US$ million ----
Foreign  Local    Total   Foreign  Local   Total
Substations                     73.0      7.7      80.7     4.7      0.5      5.2
Overhead Lines                  87.1    49.0    136.1        5.6     3.3      8.9
Cables                          58.4      3.1      61.5      3.8     0.2      4.0
Consumer Services                8.6    27.0       35.6      0.5     1.7      2.2
Service Vehicles and
Communication Equipment        0.2      6.5       6.7      -       0.4      0.4
Buildings                        -       43.9      43.9       -      2.8      2.8
Local Freight                    -       20.2      20.2       -      1.3      1.3
Engineering                     12.7      2.8      15.5      0.8     0.2      1.0
Training                        10.1      6.2      16.3      0.7     0.4      1.1
BPDB's Administration            -       43.3      43.3       -      2.8      2.8
250.1   209.7    459.8    16.1    13.6    29.7
Contingencies:
Physical                      22.7    15.8    38.5        1.5    1.0        2.5
Price                         42.8    85.3   124.5        2.8    5.3        8.1
Total Project Cost (before
duties and taxes)            315.6   307.2   622.8       20.4   19.9       40.3
Duties and Taxes                 -       60.5    60.5         -     3.9       3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSr             315.6   367.7   683.3        20.4   23.8      44.2
3.04      The estimates were developed by BPDB.  They are based on late-1978
prices and were established taking into account recent projects of a similar
nature in Bangladesh. Engineering and supervision are estimated at about 2%
of the total project cost and correspond to an average of about US$7,500 per
man-month plus direct expenses.  The project cost includes US$1.2 million
for training equipment and training of personnel 1/.  Duties and taxes averag-
ing about 21% for imported equipment and materials were added in accordance
with local regulations. Physical contingencies of 10% on equipment, materials
and civil works, and price contingencies of 7% per year on the foreign cost
and 10% on the local cost (12% in FY80) were allowed for.
Project Financing Plan
3.05      Cofinancing among IDA, the OPEC Special Fund anc[ GOB is envisaged for
the project.  IDA and the OPEC Special Fund would enter into a joint financing
arrangement with both parties financing a certain percentage of the foreign
1/   US$480,000 for trainers, US$260,000 for training equipment and
US$460,000 for civil works (school buildings and accomodation
facilities for trainees).



- 15 -
cost of the project equipment items.  IDA would administer the funds provided
by OPEC under standard procedures applicable to the OPEC Special Fund. To be
assured of a complete financing plan of the project, signing of the OPEC
Special Fund Agreement has been made a condition of Credit effectiveness. In
addition, IDA would finance the expected total cost of training and project
engineering. IDA funds would also cover local freight, project construction
and erection, and civil works connected with the project (operational buildings
and staff quarters). GOB would provide budget funds for BPDB's administrative
costs and the duties and taxes payable on imported equipment and materials. 1/
Under the above assumptions, the following financing plan would ensue:
Foreign Local Total
---- US$ million ----
OPEC
Equipment and Vehicles            8.5     -       8.5
IDA
Equipment                        10.1    6.3    16.4
Construction and Erection          -     3.0      3.0
Civil Works                        -     4.2      4.2
Local Freight                      -     2.0      2.0
Training                          0.8    0.4      1.2
Engineering Consultants           1.0    0.2      1.2
Total IDA                  11.9   16.1    28.0
GOB
BPDB's Administration             *-    3.8       3.8
Subtotal (net of duties
and taxes)                  20.4   19.9    40.3
Duties and Taxes
(GOB financing)                 -      3.9      3.9
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENT   20.4   23.8    44.2
The above financing plan shows that IDA would finance aboult 70% of the total
project cost excluding duties and taxes, the OPEC Special Fund about 21%,
and the Government about 9%.
1/   20% duties on equipment and machinery and 75% on cars and trucks (pre-
ferential rates for BPDB). There is also a 1% local octroi tax on the
c.i.f. value of imported goods levied in the municipalities where the
goods are used.



- 16 -
Engineering and Implementation
3.06      BPDB has prepared the feasibility study for the proposed project
with IDA advice using the experience gained with similar projects in the
country. The study has been adequately carried out. For p:roject design,
drafting of specifications, bidding documents and contracts, and supervision
of project implementation, BPDB will employ consultants who would be expected
to develop the capabilities of BPDB's own staff through transfer of knowledge
during implementation of this distribution project. This is designed to lead
to a gradual reduction in future consulting requirements. Selection of the
engineering consultants is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.07      BPDB plans to establish a project unit in Khulna headed by a full-
time engineer (project manager) with adequate network construction experience.
The project manager has been appointed. This unit will be responsible for
appropriate and timely execution of the project, it will supervise the con-
sultants, organize and operate the project stores and warehouses and will
have a major input in the evaluation of bids and decisions on contract awards.
The unit's first important task will be the initial field survey which would
provide the consultants with the basic data for project design.
3.08      The construction of the project is expected to take about four
years during the period 1979/80 through 1982/83.
Storage of Materials
3.09      The review of BPDB's warehouse and storage control systems in
Khulna reveaLed serious deficiencies. Since the introduction of a reliable
store control system, to be developed by BPDB's accounting consultants (para
4.22), is bound to take a long time, an interim arrangemeni: has to be used to
ensurE that materials procured under the proposed credit would not be subjet
to pilferage and that they would actually be used for the proposed project.
Consequently, the following arrangements were discussed for early implementa-
tion:
(a)  sufficient space should be set aside in a clearly separate
area of BPDB's Khulna warehouses for equipment procured
under the proposed credit; and
(b)  separate records should be kept for the project materials
showing:
(i) the material received (physical item, value!,
freight, taxes and duties);
(ii) the location of the material in the storage area; and
(iii) the location of its installation.



- 17 -
Procurement
3.10      Supplies and equipment will be procured through international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines. There are
local manufacturers who may be able to participate successfully in the bidding
process for certain items. In this case, the standard 15% preference on the
c.i.f. price, or the prevailing duties, if lower, would be applicable in bid
evaluation. Items valued below US$20,000 aggregating to not more than
US$200,000 may be procured in accordance with international shopping proce-
dures.  The project also includes construction and erection work.  However, the
contracts involved are small and consequently, local competitive bidding in
accordance with the country's procedures would apply.
3.11      Construction and erection of the project will be carried out to
a large extent by local contractors with only minor portions left to BPDB's
own staff for execution (house connections, small civil works). Earlier
projects of a similar nature have shown that BPDB's staff is capable of
carrying out the minor erection work.
Disbursements
3.12      Disbursements of the proposed IDA credit would ccver:
(a)  90% of civil works;
(b)  54% of the equipment procured overseas;
(c)  80% of locally procured equipment to allow for imported
duties and taxes, and 100% of locally manufactured equipment
(ex-factory);
(d)  100% of equipment installation;
(e)  100% of training equipment and services;
(f)  100% of engineering services; and
(g)  100% of local freight.
The expected disbursement schedule is shown as Annex 9.
Project Approval
3.13      Project approval involves various steps within t:he Government and,
consequently, can be a time consuming process.  The proposed project has been
included in Bangladesh's Annual Development Program and authorization for
incurring expenditures has been granted; however, approva:L of the project by
PEC and ECNEC (para 1.11) is still outstanding. Since full Government support
is considered essential for the successful implementation of the project,
Government approval of the Project Proforma (summary of project data) is
a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 18 -
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Financial Performance
4.01      It is not possible at: this stage to judge reliably BPDB's past
financial performance because of serious deficiencies in recording. Under the
present accounting system, the recording of revenues is on an accrual basis
whereas expenditures are recorded on a cash basis. Materials and supplies are
frequently charged to expense and riot to inventory, irrespective of their use,
resulting in doubtful accounting control over purchased stock. Fixed asset
accounting is unreliable. Depreciation is charged at 3.2% on a straight line
basis which appears low. However, the fact that depreciated assets are not
being eliminated from the books partially counteracts this lower depreciation
charge.
4.02      In view of the above-mentioned deficiencies, BPDB's accounts can
be regarded only as indicative of trends. Therefore they have not been inc-
luded in the financial statements of this report. However, they show a clearly
and quickly deteriorating trend of BPDB's finances which is expected to reverse
only with the next tariff increase in FY80 (para 4.11).  This trend has resul-
ted in the Board's inability to cover its cash operating expenses in FYs78
and 79 (Annex 10), and in total cash deficits of about US$:[7.5 million in FY78
and US$10 million in FY79 (49% and 22% of revenues).
The Financial Recovery Plan
4.03      To reverse BPDB's rapidly deteriorating financial situation, which
is a consequence of inefficient operation as well as inadequate tariffs, the
Government and BPDB prepared a financial recovery plan designed to reach
through specific steps gradual cost coverage by revenues in FY81/82. ADB
agreed with this approach and included the total plan as a financial covenant
in the documents of its recent Chittagong Power Distribution Project loan.
4.04      The plan includes the following major elements:
(a) restructuring of BPDB's debt to the Government (para 4.15);
(b) separating rural electrification investments and their
financing on the basis of GOB grants;
(c) creating a standing committee and a tariff cell within
BPDB with the responsibility of revising the power tariffs
from time to time;
(d) reducing unit cost for fuel by 15% by 1980;
(e) reducing system losses, including station consumption,
to 20% of gross generation by .1980;
(f)  restricting escalation of operating costs to 5% per
year starting in FY78;



- 19 -
(g) charging depreciation at the rate of 3.2% (straight-
line method);
(h) paying to GOB the surplus remaining after allowing for
operating expenses, interest and depreciation; and
(i) reducing the accounts receivable to a three-month
billing level.
4.05      The mission's review of the contents of the activities connected
with the financial recovery plan as outlined above revealed that the plan
is a commendable attempt to improve BPDB's operations and to restore its
financial viability and that it could form the framework for the management/
financial covenants to be proposed for inclusion in the credit documents.
However, some of the targets have become infeasible from a technical as well
as an economic point of view. For instance, it does not appear possible
to attain a level of only 20% losses including station consumption; the fuel
cost reduction by 15% and the restriction of operating cost escalation to 5%
per year seem doubtful; and the three-month billing level of accounts receiv-
able is not too indicative of success in the face of non-billing of about 67%
of BPDB's customers (para 4.23). The Government and BPDB have therefore
undertaken a review of the most urgent aspects of the Plan in order to estab-
lish a program of priority actions which, together with the necessary tariff
increases would permit BPDB to cover its costs through revenues in FY82,
and to cover a reasonable return on investment thereafter.
4.06      The most urgent aspects of the financial recovery plan are:
(a)  a program designed to reduce BPDB's system losses;,
(b)  a power system rehabilitation program;
(c)  a management improvement effort; and
(d)  a tariff increase of at least 38% designed to improve
quickly BPDB's financial position.
4.07       System Loss Reduction Program.  After analyzing tlhe causes for BPDB's
high system losses (para 1.21) and establishirng a reasonable estimate of the
timeframe within which a gradual improvement can be achieved, BPDB agreed that
it will take all steps necessary to ensure that the following levels of system
losses, including station consumption, are reached:
Percent of Total
Electricity Generation
FY79 (actual)                        37
FY80)                                34
FY81                                 31
FY82                                 29
FY83                                 27
FY84                                 25
FY85                                 23



- 20 -
BPDB also agreed to ensure that from FY85 the technical losses in its dis-
tribution network together with non-technical consumption (losses due to
defective metering and billing) do not exceed 18% of BPDB's electricity
generation.
4.08      Power System Rehabilitation Program.  Financed from funds of ADB,
BPDB is presently carrying out a power system rehabilitation study with the
assistance of consultants. This study will establish the scope of the neces-
sary rehabilitation of BPDB's system, will define the financial and technical
resources required, and will draft guidelines and schedules for planning of
system maintenance. It will also assist BPDB in identifying methods and
formulating procedures for securing in a timely manner the foreign exchange
allocation necessary for spare parts, equipment and material for the contin-
uing regular maintenance of the power system. Upon completion of the study,
which is expected not later than June 30, 1980, BPDB will consult with IDA on
the steps to be taken in implementing the recommendations of the study. Close
coordination will be maintained with ADB during the consultations.
4.09      Management Improvement Effort.  With financial assistance by ADB, an
independent expert has carried out a review of BPDB's management. The expert
has recommended a partial reorganization of BPDB with the objective of provid-
ing more delegation of responsibility to lower levels of management, spreading
the workload more evenly, removing overlaps of responsibilities and establish-
ing new office procedures where required. The. draft management report of the
expert has recently been submitted to the Government for consideration.  The
Governraent and BPDB have agreed to consult with IDA, not later than December 31,
1979, on the action to be taken in implementirng the recommendations in the
managemenit report in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Govern-
ment, BPDB and IDA. The consultations will be coordinated with ADB.
4.10      Tariffs.  As described in previous paragraphs, BPDB's poor financial
perforrmance is not only the result of its inefficient operations but also of
insufficient earning levels.  Revenues average USJ3 per kWh sold which, although
comparable to neighboring countries, would be too low even if BPDB's system
were operated efficiently. Tariff levels also appear to be considerably
below the long run marginal cost of supply on the basis of BPDB's present
investment program.  Government approval is required for tariff adjustments
which is a difficult and time consuming process. BPDB's present rates have
been in effect since 1974. The present application for a 38% rate increase,
pending) since early-1977, will be implemented finally in July 1979.
4.11       BPDB's tariffs should cover operating costs, interest charges, depre-
ciation, amortization of debt as far as it exceeds depreciation and taxes, and
should provide a reasonable return on investment (Section 26 of President's
Order No. 59). BPDB stated that, except for the year after the last tariff
increase, GOB has never permitted tariffs to be increased to meet the require-
ments. A series of gradual tariff adjustments will be required to reach this
level.  As a first step toward reaching finarncial viability and toward achiev-
ing the targets mentioned in paragraph 4.13, the Government and BPDB plan to



- 21 -
increase BPDB's tariffs by at least 38% on July 1, 1979. Implementation of
this tariff increase is a condition of Credit effectiveness. To facilitate
subsequent tariff adjustments, the Government and BPDB indicated their will-
ingness to explore the feasibility of the early introduction of an automatic
fuel adjustment clause in BPDB's tariffs.
4.12      The structure of the electricity tariffs in Bangladesh does not
reflect the cost of service. Industrial and commercial consumers are being
charged more than twice the rate of domestic and agricultural customers.
This reflects the Government's practice of subsidizing the poorer segment of
the economy. Financed with funds from the Ministry of Overseas Development
of the United Kingdom (ODM), a team of tariff experts of the British firms of
Coopers & Lybrand Associates Ltd. and Preece, Cardew and Rider has arrived in
the country to carry out a tariff study.  The study is expected to make recom-
mendations for a tariff structure that will reflect as closely as possible
the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of supply for different classes of consumers
(terms of reference are in Annex 12).
Future Improvement
4.13      As an indication of the effectiveness of BPDB's improvement efforts
outlined in paragraphs 4.07-4.09 as well as the Government's effectiveness in
permitting adjustment of tariffs as and when required, BPDB has agreed to take
all action necessary to achieve operating ratios 1/ of at Least 135 percent
in FY80, at least 120 percent in FY81 and at least 100 percent in FY82.
4.14      As described in paragraph 4.01, the present status of BPDB's accounts
does not permit judgment about the value of its assets and casts doubt on the
accuracy of recording in general. It is, therefore, not possible to design
at this stage a conventional earnings covenant which could be applied after
recovery in FY82. For establishing such a covenant, effective introduction
of the commercial accounting system designed by the accounting consultant
(para 4.22) must be awaited. Consequently, agreement has been reached during
negotiations that BPDB will take all action necessary on its part to ensure
that, with effect from FY83, tariffs are set at levels that will provide reve-
nues 3ufficient to cover its administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation), and taxes and other pay-
ments to the Borrower, if any, and that will produce an annual rate of return
on BPDB's currently valued net fixed assets in operation sufficient to cover
all interest payments and other charges on debt, adequiate provision for bad
debts, and repayment of debt when due as far as such repayment exceeds depre-
ciation, and to finance a reasonable portion of BPDB's investment program.
1/   Operating and maintenance expenses including depreciation, taxes, in-
terest and provision for bad debts divided by operating revenues.



- 22 -
Debt Restructuring
4.15      Before FY78, all Government capital input was in the form of loans
at varying terms. 1/ To ease BPDB's financial burden, the Government decided
in early 1978 that as part of the Financial Recovery Plan BPDB's debt should
be restructured as follows 2/:
(a)  conversion of all pre-liberation Government Rupee loans
to equity shares subscribed by GOB;
(b)  conversion of 50% of the post-liberation Government Taka
loans to equity shares subscribed by GOB;
(c)  conversion of 50% of the post-liberation Government Taka
loans granted up to Juiie 30, 1977 to a 25-year loan in-
cluding 5 years of grace. The interest rates charged
remain unchanged;
(d)  conversion of 50% of the post-liberation Taka loans granted
after June 30, 1977 to a 25-year loan including five years
of grace with interest at 5% per year.
(e)  foreign loans obtained up to June 30, 1977 remain unchanged
in the books of BPDB;
(f)  conversion of foreign loans obtained after June 30, 1977
to a 25-year loan including five years of grace with
interest at 5% per year; and
(g)  in the case of loans for which specific relending terms are
agreed with the donors, such relending terms will prevail.
Future Financial Situation
4.16      BPDB's financial situation as it is expected to develop during
the next several years is summarized in the following table:
1/  l'he equity capital included in the balance sheets before FY78 consists
mainly of the balancing amount for the value of the fixed assets at the!
time of transfer to BPDB.
2/   Decree of the Ministry of Power, Flood Control and Water Resources No.
GOB-VII/5-Misc 69/76 (Pt-I)/59 in concurrence with the Ministry of
Finance.



- 23 -
Net Internal Cash Generation         Debt/
Operating   Rate of             as % of Investments            Equity
FY       Ratio      Return /a    (annual)        (3-year average)       Ratio
1978        159           -            -                  -              61:39
(actual)
1979        183           -            -                  -              63:37
1980        133           -            -                  -              69:31
1981        117           -            -                  -              72:28
1982        100          3.5            7                 1              72:28
1983         98          3.8           10                 6              72:28
1984         88          5.9           23                13              70:30
1985         84          6.8           21                18              69:31
/a   On average, net fixed assets in operation.  The rates of return are
considered reasonably realistic although no revaluation of the rate
base has been carried out. This is because BPDB's assets appear over-
valued due to the insufficient depreciation charge as well as the much
lower than normal life expectancy of most of BPDB's assets because of
insufficient maintenance.
To arrive at the above results, BPDB would have to increase its average
tariffs by 38% on July 1, 1979, 20% on July 1, 1980, 17% o01 July 1, 1981 and
9% on July 1, 1983, raising the average revenues per kWh sold from the present
UJSJ3 to US(14.2 after the next increase (July 1, 1979) and 1JS6.5 at the end
of the forecast period (FY85).  The magnitude of these adjustments, however,
is influenced to a large extent by the assumed cost inflation factors (see
Annexes 3 and 10). At constant price levels (1978/79), the tariff increases
required to arrive at similar results would be about 35% on July 1, 1979, 14%
on July 1, 1980 and about 10% on July 1, 1981. The average revenues per kWh
sold in FY85 would increase only to about USJ5.
4,17      Another factor with substantial adverse effect on the power tariffs
in Bangladesh are BPDB's system losses which at present amount to 37% of gross
generation (including station consumption -- para 1.21).  If BPDB's losses
were at a level considered appropriate for its system (about 23%), annual fuel
savings of about Tk 120 million would materialize. This is equivalent to
savings in fuel cost of 7 paisa per kWh sales.  This analysis underscores the
urgent need for an effective loss reduction program (para 4.07).
4.18      Fuel accounts for about 50% of BPDB's operating costs excluding
interest. This is a comparatively large proportion even when considering
that BPDB's system i.s predominantly thermal (between 75% and 80% of gross
generation). It illustrates:



- 24 -
(a)  the inefficiency of BPDB's system.  Station breakdowns
necessitate frequent stop/go operation, and shortage of
reliable base load capacity requires base load operation
of gas turbines which have a low fuel efficiency; and
(b) the inadequate maintenance which causes station breakdowns
as well as higher than normal specific fuel consumption.
Financing Plan
4.19      Applying the targets described in paragraph 4.13 and assuming a
reasonable financial development thereafter, BPDB's financing plans during
FYs79-83 (project construction) and the forecast period FYs;79-85 are as
follows:
FY79-83                    FY79-85
Tk        US$           Tk         US$
Million   Million    %   Million   Million  %
(equivalent)               (equivalent)
Sources
Gross Internal Sources           1,836.9      118.5      -   4,799.3   309.6    -
Less:  Debt Service              1,690.5      109.1      -   3,168.9   204.4
Net Internal Cash Generation       146.4/a      9.4/a  1.1T T,630.4/a 105.2/a 7.9
External Sources
GOB Equity Contribution          3,177.8      205.0   23.1  4,758.4   307.0  23.0
GOB Subsidy                        400.0       25.8    2.9    400.0    25.8   1.9
Foreign Currency Loans           7,133.9      460.3   51.9 11,003.3   709.9  53.3
Local Currency Loans             2,876.9      185.6   21.0  2,876.9   185.6  13.9
Total External Sources        13,588.6      876.7   98.9 19,038.6 1,228.3  92.1
Total Sources                   13,735.0      886.1  100.0 20,669.0 1,333.5 100.0
Applications
Investments                     13,451.0      867.8   97.4 20,288.0 1,308.9  93.2
Variations in Working Capital    284.0         18.3    2.6    381.0    24.6   1.8
Total Applications            13,735.0      886.1  100.0 20,669.0 1,333.5 100.0
/a   BPDB claims that it also collects consumers' capital contributions.
Since the method of their recording is unclear at the moment, no
allowance has been made in the financing plan thus probably under-
stating somewhat the net internal cash generation.



- 25 -
4.20       The financing plan shows that BPDB is only able to finance about
1% of its requirements from internal cash generation during the project con-
struction period. However, with the expected improvement of its finances,
it should be able to finance internally about 22% during FYs84 and 85 which
would bring the average for FY79-85 up to about 8%. The Government is ex-
pected to provide from its budget resources about Tk 8 billion (equity and
subsidy input and local currency loans) during FYs79-85, whereas Tk 11.0
billion have to be raised in foreign currency borrowing (about Tk 4 billion
have been secured).  Consequently, the total inflow from the Government to
BPDB amounts to Tk 19 billion whereas the flow of funds from BPDB to the
Government (debt service and customs duties and taxes) during the same
period is estimated at Tk 6.6 million, leaving a net Government input of
about Tk 12.4 billion (US$790 million equivalent).
Onlending Terms
4.21       The Government will onlend the proceeds of the proposed Credit to
BPDB at 5% interest and a term of 25 years including 5 years of grace. The
terms include a substantial concessionary element 1/. However, they form
part of GOB's financial recovery plan for BPDB (para 4.15) and are appropriate
given BPDB's unfavorable financial position. Conclusion of the onlending
arrangement between the Goveriunent and BPDB is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
Accounting Consultants
4.22      Financed from funds of a technical assistance credit of ADB, BPDB
has appointed the firm of Sycip, Gorres and Velayo (SGV) of the Philippines
for design and implementation of a commercial accounting system appropriate
for a public utility enterprise (for details see Annex 11). The consultants
have completed the design stage of their assignment and GOB and BPDB have
accepted their proposal. With the assistanice of local consultants (Messrs.
S.F. AUhmed & Co.), SGV has recently commenced the implementation of the
system together with a training program for ]3PDB's accounting staff in
1/   During the past three years, the inflation in Bangladesh (GDP deflator)
developed as follows:
1975/76: -12.3%
1976/77: - 5.3%
1977/78:    6.2%
In the future, the following trend is expected:
1978/79: 11.0%
1979/80:   9.5%
1980/81:   8.5%
With Government approval, BPDB borrows small amounts in the local capital
market through issuance of bonds at about 9% interest and a term of about
20 years including five yeats of grace. BPDB bears the full foreign
exchange risk.



- 26 -
system application (training of about 20 local teachers). This assignment
is estimated to take about three years. At present, BPDB plans to apply the
new system for FY79 and thereafter. It is uncertain at the moment when these
annual accounts will be issued, but progressive improvement can be expected.
Billing and Collection
4.23      At the end of FY78 BPDB had 403,500 customers of which 171,500 were
classified as industrial and commercial and 228,500 as domestic.  In addi-
tion BPDB supplied about 2,500 agricultural consumers and had on an average
1,000 temporary connections. BPDB's billing and collection record is unsatis-
factory. This is not readily recognizable since BPDB's bociks indicate that
the accounts receivable on average do not exceed four-month billing. In fact:,
however, BPDB actually bills only about 67% of its customers which not only
results in loss of revenues but also in an understatement of the amounts out--
standing versus total revenues from sales of power 1/. Consequently, a
requirement which limits accounts receivables to a predetermined proportion
of revenues or billing would not be appropriate because it would either compare
accounts which are not comparable or would not provide incentive for improve--
ment. It is, therefore, proposed to rely on the gradual introduction of the
new billing and collection system developed by the accounting consultants
(Annex 11) which is expected to considerably improve consumner accounting.
Improvements will also occur in the context of the loss reduction program
(para 4.07).
Audit
4.24      President's Order No. 59 stipulates that the Government may, for
any year, appoint one or more auditors to audit the accounts of BPDB. In
addition, the Auditor-General of Bangladesh may, either on his own initiative
or upon request by GOB, undertake such audit of BPDB's accounts as is con-
sidered necessary. The Auditor-General's Office is not equipped for carrying
out a commercial audit and confines its activities to Government-type auditing.
4.25      During the last three years, no audit has been carried out mainly
because of the deficient state of BPDB's accounts. For the same reason, it
would not be meaningful to request an audit before the new sytem of accounts
is introduced which is planned for FY79 and thereafter. Ilowever, closing
of the FY79 accounts may take a long time, since it is the first test year.
BPDB has agreed during negotiations to have its accounts audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA ccmmencing FY79. The auditor's
report wiLl be made available to the Association as early as possible and,
starting FY82 (expected completion date of the consultants' assignment) not
later than six months after the close of any fiscal year.
1/   The meter readers report a larger number of readings, which form the
basis for calculating the revenues, than get actually billed later.



- 27 -
Insurance
4.26      BPDB carries insurance for most of the insurable risks normally
associated with the operation of a power utility. All insurance contracts
are entered into with the national insurance company. Contrary to the experi-
ence of other enterprises, BPDB states that it has not had major problems in
settling insurance claims. Random checks substantiate this statement. This
success seems to be due to an energetic staff in BPDB's insurance department.
BPDB is not insured against risks of fire and the mission advised BPDB to
investigate the economy of entering into such insurance arrangements.  BPDB
indicated that it would do so.
Rural Tariffs
4.27      The present legislation concerning REB (para 1.12) is silent about
the level and structure of the tariffs to be charged to rural bulk customers.
This is a potential threat to BPDB's financial viability because BPDB could
be directed by the Government to sell power at subsidized rates without being
reimbursed for the financial shortfall. The Government's policy calls for
operation of BPDB on a commercial basis whereas rural electrification would
be subsidized. The Government has confirmed that it wishes to adhere to this
policy. Consequently, agreement has been reached during negotiations that
BPDB will take all action necessary to ensure that tariffs 2Eor the supply of
electricity to REB and the Rural Cooperatives are set at levels sufficient to
cover the cost associated with BPDB's assets and operation required to pro-
vide such electricity supply and to produce an annual rate of return on BPDB's
currently valued net fixed assets in operation required to provide such
electricity supply which is at least equivalent to the annual rate of return
BPDB earns on its total assets.
V. JUSTIFICATION
Demand
5.01      The project is required for strengthening and expanding BPDB's
distribution facilities in the area of Khulna and its environs and to meet
reliably the growing demand, particularly industrial demand, in the area. The
existing distribution system is already heavily loaded, and without the
necessary rehabilitation severe overloading could not be avoided even if the
number of customers does not increase. Partial or total blackouts for varyirng
lengths of time occur frequently, occasionally several times per day, which
has led to complaints by industrial customers about erratic power supply
disrupting the manufacturing process.  Some industries, for instance, a
telephone cable manufacturer, have had to resort to the installation of their
owII diesel generation, which is being operated permanently to maintain those
manufacturing processes which, when interrupted, would cause major damage to
the manufacturing plant and/or product.



- 28 -
5.02      Judging from past trends and taking into account future increases
expected to materialize on the basis of waiting lists and plans for industrial
expansion, the demand for electricity is expected to develop in the project
area as follows:
Fiscal Years                              1978    1984    1988
(actual)
Khulna
Maximum Demand (MW)                   30       62      74
Sales (GWh)                           87     211      368
Mangla Port
Maximum Demand (MW)                    0.3      8      10
Sales (GWh)                            0.4    29       48
Bagerhat
Maximum Demand (MW)                    1        2       3
Sales (GWh)                            2       8       16
Satkhira
Maximum Demand (MW)                    0.5      1       2
Sales (GWh)                            1       4        9
TOTAL PROJECT AREA
Maximum Demand (MW)                   31.8    73       89
Sales (GWh)                           90.4   252      441
As in t:he past, around 66% to 68% would be industrial demand. A higher share
of industrial demand is expected in Mangla where, with aid from Yugoslavia, a
major commercial port is under construction. Other industries include cable
factories, jute mills, steel mills, fish processinlg and marketing, and cold
storage.
Economic Rate of Return
5.03      Because the project consists of a part of BPDB's complex rehabili-
tation and expansion program, it is not possible to separate in a meaningful
way that portion of the incremental benefits which can be attributed to it.
An internal economic rate of return (IERR) on the project can therefore not
be computed. Instead, the IERR on the time slice FYs79-83 (project construc-
tion period) of BPDB's total investment program, of which the project forms a
part, has been calculated (for details see Annex 13). The return is about 8%.
This indicates that the tariff, even afte.r the impending tariff increase of
38% (para 4.11), is below the average incremental cost of supply.  ImpleTmenta-
tion of further tariff increases is, therefore, necessary.



- 29 -
Risks
5.04      The project is straightforward and easy to implement.  From a
technical point of view no major risks are foreseen at this time. Cost
estimates have been made conservatively minimizing to the extent possible
the risk of cost overruns even if some implementation delays should occur.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.01      Before declaring the proposed Credit effective, the following
conditions should be met:
(a)  signing of the OPEC Special Fund Agreement (para 3.05);
(b)  selection of the engineering consultants (para 3.06);
(c)  Government approval of the Project Proforma (para 3.13);
(d)  effective implementation of a tariff increase of at
least 38% (para 4.11); and
(e)  conclusion of the onlending arrangement between GOB and BPDB
(riala 4.21).
Other Agreements
6.02      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  GOB is required to establish a long-range power development
plan (para 1.29);
(b)  BPDB is required to achieve minimum operating ratios of 135%
in FY80, 120% in FY81 and 100% in FY82 (para 4.13) and a
reasonable rate of return thereafter (para 4.14); and
(c)  bulk tariffs to rural consumers are to be set so as to cover
BPDB's full cost at the point of supply plus an adequate
rate of return (para 4.27).
Recoimmendation
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an Asso-
ciation Credit of US$28 million equivalent on standard terms.



PEOPLLb S REPUBLIIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Boad (BaDB)
Greater Ebola lo-e  Distribution Project
Generating Capa-itnes and Madm    Demad Jnterconnected System)
Yea Ending June 37-
Instal led Capacity                   Year of                                           1978        1979       1980       1981       1q82        1983       1984        1985
Number and Hating of  nlots               commis-sinag           Fuel      --                    --------------- -            Available Cap&oity.--------------
T.WEST ZOINE
AExsIg(1975)
Kh12005l is6                                 Stean                         1973                   Heay 002                   42          42         ho         ho         ho          ho         6o          6i
1 n12.75   Combustion Trie                1967                   Diesel 011                 -           -          10         10         10          10         10          10
I c1.1       Diesel                       1956                   Diesel Oil                 5.5         5.5         7          7          7           7           5         --
I  .2        Cobustion Turbine            1966                   Bephta/Diesel Ol                        51         5                     5           5          5-
4 4i.15    Stean                         1.959-60                HeavyOil                    68                               -          ----
Rhrwass                         0  o 2        Conbuation Turbine           197-6                  Diese  Oil                36.          36         36         36         36          36         36          36
S.sidp,r                        3 n3.75    Diesel                          1975-77                Diesel Oil/Heavy oil       7.5        11.0        11         11         ii          11         11          11
Tkurgao-                        7xn1.5       Diesel                        1964                   Di-eel Oili                2.6         3.9        6.5         6          6           s          s          -
Naris.l                         3 c1.1       Diesel                        1960                   Diesel 0111.                           2.7        2.7        2.7         2          -          --
4xo1.5       Diesel                       1961                   Diesel Oil                 3.          3.3        3.3        2.2        .2!          2         --
Bo.gsa                          5.51.3       Diesel                        1986-69                Diesel 001                 2.4         2.4        2.4         2          2          ---
Kt.tkhali (Rajahahi)            3 o1.4       Diesel                        1965                   Diesel 011                 2.2         2.2        2.2        2.2        2.2          2--
Serajganj                       2 N0.87    Diesel                          1969                   Diesel 011
2xco.65    Diesel                         1969                   Diesel 011                 11.9        1.9        i.9        1.9        1.9         1.5        1.5         -
1Io1.30    Diesei                         1989                   Diesel Oil
Other Small Units               10           Diesel                        -                      Diesel Oil                  5           6          6          5          5           4          4           4
Subtotal A                       l97F                                                                                      15          376T        fl9-       131i       13-0.3     =1375       737775      iy31-
B. Ness Stations
Kh.ulna                         2 . 2O        Combustioni Turbine          1980                   Diesel Oil                                        56         56         56          56         56          56
u'  6.5     lumiuctlux. TUrbine          1990                   Diesel Oil                                        10         10         10          10         10           10
1 s 12.5    Combustion Turbine            1980                   Diesel Oil                                        12.5       12.5       12.5        12.5       12.5        12.5
1 n 110      Steam                        1982                   Heavy Oi1                                                               110         110        110         110
Eherssara                       1 x 20       Cosbuation Turbine            1981                   Diesel Oil                                                   20         20          20         20          20
Sultotal 2                                                                                   ~     ~     ~~         ~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~-  -  '787  98  2M-3  208.3  a7-5  i
Total Avalabe        zity1 Went Zner                                                                                        12.2.6      130.15    220.5       029.5      338.8       3432       346         329.5
Maximum Demand WesO Zone                                                                    4.4      114.9      135.1       159.2     184.5       216        249.3        287.5~~~4.9159.  la.5  26  29.3  87'
Total Available Capacity less Maximum Demad West Zone                                                                        28.2        15.25    895.3        70.3      134.3       i16         96.7        45~
On % of Tstal Availabll  Capacity Wsmt Zone                                                                                  23          11.7       38.7       30.6       45.5        34.9       27.9        1.2.7
Total Available Capaoity less Largest UnIt Wost Zone                                                                         60.6        86.15    1.81.5      189.5      223,8       22         236         219.5
Total. :s-tlsble Imparity is-s  l,args1 UJnit less Maiacmu Demand Wesb Zone                                               (-(13.8   (-j 26j-(       45.3       30.3   .44.3            6      (-)13.3   ()68
In % of Total Available Capacity Iesa Largest Unit                                                                           --                     25         14                     -2.7       --
19.4
TI. EAST ZONE
A. -Existing (1978)
Eaptali                         2sho          Hydro                        1961-62                -92                                    952        92         92,        92           92         92          92
Aahugsnj                         2xm64        Steam                        19170-71               Natural Gaa               128         128         128       128        128         128         128        1.28
Ghos-asa                        2xm55         Stean                        1974-75                Natural Oas               110         010        110        110        110         110        110          110
Siddhirgansj                    1 o50         Steam                        19,71                  Natural Gas/Furnace Oil  50            50         50         50         50           50         50          50
3 o10        Steam                        1959-60                Natural Gss/Purnatce Oil  16           i6          16        16         16           16         16          i6
Shahjibacar                      3xm  4.75   Cumboation Turbine            1970-71)               uato-al Gee                55          ss         ss         ss         ss           ss        ss           ss
4.16l        Comboation Turbine           1970-71)
Other Small omits                6           Diesel                                                                           3            3          3          3         2            2                      2
Subtotal A                    5-12.25                                                                                       qlC         li5F       VW87        3W-       v577        377-       7577        357
B. Nen, Stations
Eaptai                           1 s 50       Hydro                        1981                                                                                 50         50          30         50          50
S x 5i       Nydro                        1955l                  -                                                                                                          ioo
Chittagong                      I x 6o       Stean                         1982                   Furnace Oil/Natural Gas                                                 60           6o         60          6o0
Ghoracal                        2 x 100       Steam                        1984                   Natural Gas                                                                        ___         200         200
Subtotal 23                     3103                                                                                         -                                   w       I            10        783
Total AvailaSle capacity DEalt Zone                                                                                               454   4-,         44         5oh       563          563        763         863
Maximum Demand East Tone                                                                                                    207.3        319        35l        3933       4s6         484        537         596
Total1 Available Csp.clty less Meolmom Demand East Zone                                                                     166.7       135        100         ill       127           79        226         267
Zn 6 of Total Available Capacity East Zone                                                                                    36.7       29.7        22         22         22.6        14         29.6        30.9
Total Available Capacity less Largest Unit East Cone                                                                        390         390         390        440       499          499        663         763
Total Available Capacity less Largest Unit less Maxi.mum Demand East Zoss                                                   102.7        71          36         47         63          15        126         167
'r .  o f Total Available Capacity less Largest Unit                                                                         26.3         18.2        9.2       10.7       1.2.6        3         19          21.9
Totsi Dutercosn ctad  tyto                                                                                                                                                                     ill
Total Available Capacity~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 1,10-
Maximum Demand 2/                                                                                                                                                                              1,0          ,1575
Total Available Capacity less  aULu.I-  lenan-d                                                                                                                                                  346         335.5   H
Zn 9 of Total Available Capacity                                                                                                                                                                  31.0       2si
Total Available CapacIty lees issrgen' li                                                                                                                                                        999       1,0820,
Total Available Capscity loon Largest Unit less Maximum Deman.d                                                                                                                                  236         225.5
Io 9 of Total Available Capacity less Las-gat Umit                                                                                                                                                23.6        2o.8
1/Thet-o separate grids (West sod SEst Con) are due so be interconn.cted by mid-1954 Stho..gh adouble circuit 230 bV t-asemission  line
1/   90  roncdene fcco  hn ben  asued for   the maimum demands in the West and NEst Zones.



PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
-SAMJ.)ESEt POWR DEVE,?m7iT T      (G?'
HiSsuorio a.nd Forecast Sales, Generation and Naximum Demar.d
Trend                                                                               Trend
Year Ending June 30                    1973       1974      1975      1976     17T       1978     1 93-137f,    1979       ;98G      1983      1982       1983      1984      1985     1979-1985
- - - - - - - - - - - - Historic - - - - - -  - - - - - -                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Forecast - - - - - - - - - - -   - -
I. WEST GONE
1. Inercor.nectei System
Sales (oGmh
Domestic                        14.1      150        17.8      18.4      22.4      30.1      16.4          48.7      56.4      62, 7     68.8       82.0      97.1     114.8      15.4
Commercial                       6 3       9.4       II.8      26.1      27.4      32.3      387          35.7       4 3      43'       51.6      61.5       72.8      86.1      15,8
Industry                        79.6     108.1      109.6    126.1      146.2     173.9      16.9        208.0      242.8    282.2      332.5      385.0     444.3    521.3       16.5
Agriculture                      -          -         -         1,9       6.5       3.0                    13.5      24.2      43.4      63.0       82.0     105.2     124.4      44.8
0ther                            1.6         ,4       1.2       6.1       5,2      25.7      7L.2         19.7       24.2      28.9      28.6       34.5      40.4      47J9      16.0
Total                       101,6  134.2        140.4    3177o.     207.7     f67.       21.1         3.        37.9      460.6 5 44.5         6.        7579.  834.5         18.3
Annual Growth (3)                      32         4.6      27.2      16.3      27.6                    22.9      19.1      18.7       18.2      18.5      17.8     17.7
DEosee 7.GWh)                       7.o0       39.9     103.2     109.1     129.3    158.7                    191.8     199.8     206.9     222.4      238.6    251.2    267.2
(V)                         42.1      40.1      42.4       37.9      38.4      37.5                   37.1       34.o      31.0      29.0      27.0       25.0     23.0
Generation (G0TW)
Diesel                          26.1       13.2       9.9      13.2       5.6      29.8       2.7          73.4      52.0      58.5     117.0       88.2      59.7     51.1    (-)6.2
Combustion Turbine             1^1.       46.8       17.7      42.1     131.4    207.4       15.3         194.0    320.7      384.0     324.9      195.4    204.4    169.6    (-)2.2
Steam                           4t.1N      L.1      216.0    232.4      200.0    186.5       31.3         250.0     215.0    225.0      325.0      600.0     618.0   717.0        19.2
.NiRydro                        -   ,       -         -                                              - -   -
Total                      77u       224.1                773. 7  28.7          3        19.3         517.4     557.7     667.5     7       .    7
Import fr'm toe East Zone                                                                                   -         -         -          -         -       131.0    224.0
Maximum Demand (NW)                 36.5      48.8       50.2      6A.9      73.5      94.4      20.9         114.9     135.2     159.2     184.5      216.0     249.3    287.5        16.5
Annual Growth (V                           33.7       2,9      27.3      15.0       28.4                   21.7     1V.7       17.8       15.9      17.1      15.4      15.3
load Factor (M                      54.9       52.4      55.4      51.4      52.3      51.,2                   51.4      49.6      47.9      47.5       46.7      46.4     46.1
2.  Isolated Systems
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                         g,0       11.9      ll.G      11 7       6.6        7.5                    2.1       1.7        1.3       1.1       o.6       o.s       o.4
w Commercial                       1.0        0.5       1.O       3.7       4.1       4.5                     1.4       1.2       0.9        0.8       0.5       o.4       0.3
Industry                        14.o       24.2      12.1      15.8      14.3       12.9                    9.1       7-7       6.3        5.7       3.1       2.4       1.8
Agriculture                      -          3.3       0.1       4.9       4.1        3.4                    o.6       0.7        0.9       1.0       o.6       0.5       o.4
Other                            0.8        1.5       0.9       1.1       1.8       2.4                     0.8       0.7       o.6        o.4       0.2       0.2       0.1
Total                        7         31.4      25.1 77     2       30 9      30.7        4.4         2978      7         7875o       9.       379         88o    (-)29.3
LOGO" (GJh)                         28.4       27.4      31.4      19.2      26.2       14.1                    7.6       6.o        4.5       4.o       1.8        1.3      0.9
53.4      46.6      55.6      34.o       45.9      31.5                   35.2       J3.3      31.0      30.8      26.5       2h5      23. 1
Generation (GWM)                    53.2       58.8      56.t      56.4      57.1       44.8    -)3.,          21.6      18.0       i4.5      13.0       6.8        5.3      3.9    (-)32.8
TOTAL WEST ZOE
Sales (i0GWh)
Domestic                        23.1       27.2      28.8      30.1      29.0       37.6      10.2         50.8       58.1      64.0      69.9      82.6       97.6    115.2       14.6
Commercial                       7.3       9.9       12.8      29.8      31.5       36.8      38.2         37.1      4i.5       44.3      52.4      62.0       73.2     86.4       15.1
industry                        93.6      122 3     121.7     141.9     160.5    186.8        14.8        217.1     250.5      288.5     338.2     388.1     446.7    523.1        15.8  jI 
Agriculture                       -         3.3       0.1       6.8      l0.6        6.4                   14.1       24.9      44.3      64.0      82.6      105.7    124.8       43.8   a
Other                            2.4        2.9       2.1       7.2       7.0       28.1      63.6         20.5      24.9       29.5      29.0      34.7       40.6     48.o       15.2  H
Total                      126.4 165.6 1    65.5          215.8       37.6    295.7       18.5        73396     399.9     470.6      553.5     650.0     7     .5              17.6   o 
Transmission and Distribution
Losses (CMh)                       102.4      117.3     134.6     128.3     155.5      172.8                  199.4    205.8       211.4     226.4     240.4     254.6    268.1 
-   (                            44.7      4-.s      44.8       3.3       39.5      36.9                   37.0       34.o      31.0      29.0       27.0      25.0     23.0
Generation (GWh)                   228.8      282.9     300.1     344.1     394.1    468.5        15. 4       539.0    605.7      689.0      779.9     690.4     887.4    941.6         9.7



Trend                                                                                Trend
Year Endinlg June 30                    1973      1974       1737      1976      1977       1978     1973-1978     1979       1980      1981       1982      1983      1984      1985     1979-1985
- - - - - - - - - - - - historic - - - - - - - - - - - -                   -         --         -        Forecast.-
II. EAST ZONE
1. Interconnected System
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                         95 .,    133.9    122.3       104.6     114.8      142.2       8.4        156.2      166.9     177.1     186.8      213,2     243.0    277.1        10.0
Commercial                       50.8      58.5      40.9       57.8      93.6;     93.'       13.0        104.2     119.2      122.6     140.1      159.8     182.3    207.8        12.2
Industry                        332.,     446.4     474.0      514.8     519.9     608.3       12.8        639.4     712.0      792.4     896.8      996.2   1,106.1  1,248.4        11.9
Agriculture                       1.3       2.4        5.2      17.6      26.7       11.2      53.8         41.7       71.5     122.6     171.2      213.2     263.4    300.1        38.9
Other                            10.2      14.2      21.0       19.8      18.2       52.9      39.0         62.5      71.5       81.8      77.8       88.,     101.3    115.4        10.8
Total                      490.2      655.4     b6 3.      714.6     T773      908 .3      13.1      1,   1014.    1,1296.5   1,2.7    ,7.2   1,896.12,                          13.6
Annual Growth (,)                      33.7       1.2        7.7       8.2       17.4                   10.5       13.7      13.6      13.6       13.5      13.5      13.6
Losses (GWh)                        356.8     315.7      346.6     398.6     450.0      535.4                  597.4      587.9     582.5      601.3     617.8     632.9    642.2
(%)                         42,j       32.5      34.3      35.8       36.8      37.1                    37.3      34.0       31.0      29.0       27.0      25.0     23.0
Generation (GWh)
Diesel                            1.4       1.7        1.0       o.4       o.6        o.6   (-)15.5          o.4        0.4       0.5        0.6       0.7       0.7       0.8       12.2
0ombaston Turbine               124.0      89.0      69.9       62.4      70.9      136.0       9.2        150.0     101.6      100.0      80.0       80.0      80.0      80.0    (-)11.0
Steam                           391.3     637.0     503.0      558.0     715.6      801.4      15.4        871.0   1,027.0   1,128.5   1,193.4   1,408.3   1,779.3  2,074.2          15.6
!Hydro                          330.3     243.4     436.1      492.4     436.3      505.7       8.9        580.0     600.0      650.0     800.0      800.0     800.0    800.0         5.5
Total                       847.0     971.1   1,010.0   1,113.2  T1,223.4      ,443.7      11.3      T6801.    1,729.0   1,879.0   2,074.0   2,289.0   2,660.0  2,955.0
Export to the West Zone           -         -         -          -          -         -                     -          -         -          -         -      (-)131.0 (-)224.0       10.7
Maximum Demand (MW)                 172.0     182.6      196.0     219.8     253.4      287.3      10.8         319.0    354.0      393.0      436.0     484.0      537.0   596.0         11.0
Annrralu 5-roth -                           6,2        7.3      12.1      15.3       13.4                    l1.0      11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0     11.0
Load Factor (<)                      56.2      60.7       58.8      57.8       55.1      57.4                    57.3      55.8      54.6       54.3      54.0       53.8     52.3                   w
0.IcolateG Syst.eus.
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                          3.2       3.7        3.6       o.6        0.4       0.2                     0?2       O.1       0.1
Commercial                        1.2       1.1       o.4        -         0.1        0.1                          -         -
Industry                          1.7       2.2       2.1        0.8       0.5        0.2                    0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3      0.2
Agriculture                       -          -         -         -          -         -                       -         -         -          -         -          -        -
Other                             0.1       0.2        0.1
Total                         7;        7.2        @         1.4       1.0        0.5   (-)65,5          0.5        0.4       0          0.3       0.3       0.3       .72    (-)16,5
Losses (MA)                           3.6        4.2       5.7        1.3       0.9       0.1                     0.1       0.2        0.1       0.1        -         -
(t)                          36.7      36.8       47.9      48.o      47.4       i6.7                    16.7      33.3      20.0       25.0       -          -        -
Generation (GWh)                      g.u       1,4       __a        2.7        1.9       o.6   (-)74.8.          o.6       o.6        0.5       0.4       0.3        0.3      0.2    (-)20.0
TOTAL EAST ZONE
Sales (GWh)
Domest                           98.-     137.6      125.9     105.2      115.2     142.4       7.7         156.4     i6(.u      ?7.2      186.8     213.2      243.0    277.1        1O.O
Commercial                       52.0      59.6       41.3      57,8      93.9       93.8      12.5         104.2     119.2     122.6      140.1     159.8      182.3    207.8        12.2
Industry                        334.5     448.6     476.2      515.6     520.4      608.5      12.7         639.7     712.3     792.7      897.1     996,5   1,106.4  1,248.6         11.9   >
Agriculture                       1.3       2.4        5.2      17.6       26.7      11.2      53.8          41.7      71.5     122.6      171.2     213.2      263.4    300.1        38.9  
Other                            10.3      14.4       21.1      19.8       18.2      52.9      38.7          62.5      71.5      81.8       77.8      88.8      101.3    115.4        10.8   r1
Total                          786 ,    7U2.6   a6696      716.0      77484     p877       12.9      1,004.5   1,141.5   1,296.9   1,473.0   1,671.5   T8o78  2,149.0             13.6 N
Losses (GWh)                        36Oi. 1    319.9    '352.3     399.9      450. 9    535.5~                  597.5     588.1      582.6     601.4      617.8     632.9    642.2        
Losses  tGWh)              3637.7      32.6      34.5       35.8      36.8      37.1                    3753       34.0      31.0       29.0      27.0       25.0     23.0               m
Generation (GWh)                    956.8     982.5   1,021.9   1,115.9   1,225.3   1,444.3         8.6       1,602.0   1,729.6   1,879.5   2.074.4   2,289.3   2,660.3  3,015.2          11.1



Trend                                                                                Trend
Ycr Er.ding Tun.e 30                    1973      1974       1975      1976      1 977      197R     19-3-197e     1979      19&0       1981      1982       1983      1982     1985      1979-1985
_-__   __ -_ iistoric -  - - - -            - - - - - - -                         Feoreca-st - -         _  _  _ _   _
BPDB (West + East)
T terconnected Systems 1/
"ales ( Gah
Dom.estic                       109,2    41492      ]40.i      123.0     53-.2      172.3        ,.        204.9     223.3      239,8     255.6      295.2     340.1    391.9        11.4
Comfqrcial                       5 7.1     A7.9      50y.'               1 '1.2    126.0       17.2        139.9     159.5      16h.0     191.7      221,3     255.1    293.9        13.2
Industry                        i12.1    554.5     583.6      6C0.9     666.1     782.2       13.7        847.4     954.8   1,074.6   1,229.3   1,381.3   1,550.4  1,769.7          13.1
Agrizulture                       1.3       2.4        5.2      19.5      33.2       14.2      6,1.3        55.2       95.7     166.0     234.2      295.2     368.6    424.5        40.5
Other                            11.8      15.6      22.2       21.9      23.4      78.6       46.1         82.2      95.7      110.7     106.4      123.3     141.7    163.3        12.1
Total                      591.i      789.6     803.8     893.2      981.1   14.7                    1,329.6   1,529.0   1, 1757.1   2,017.2   2,316.2   2,655.9  3 3-3          14.8
Annual Crowth (if)                     33.4       1.8       11.1       9.8       19.6                   13.3      15.0       14.9      14.8       14.8      14.7      14.8
Losses (GWh)                        430,8     405.6     449.8      507.7     579.3      694.1                  789.2      787.7     789.4     823.7      856.4     884.1    909.4
(<5)                        42.1       33.9      35.9      36.2       37.1      37.2                    37.2      34.0       31.0      29.0      27.0       25.0     23.0
Generation
Diesel                           27.5      14.9       10.9      13.6       6.2       30.4       2.0         73.8       52.4      59.0     117.6       88.9      60.4      51.9     (-)6.0
Combustion Turbine              205.7     135.5      87.6      104.5     202.3      343.4       8.8        344.0     422.3      484.0     404.9      275.4     284.4    249.6      (-)5.5
Steam                           439.1     801.1     719.0      790.4     915.6      987.9      17.6      1,121.0   1,242.0   1,353.5   1,518.4   2.008.3   2,397.3  2,791.2          16.4
h1ydro                          330.3     243.4     436.1      492.4     436.3      505.7 -    8.9         580.0      600.0     650.0     800.0      800.0    800.0    800.0          5.5
Total                     1,022.6   1,195.2   1,253.6   1,400.9   1,560.4   1,B7,          12.8        11.8   2,316.7   2,546.5   2,840.9   3,172.6   3,542.1  3,892.7           10.7
Maximum Demand 2/ MW)                                                                                                                                              763.0    857.0
Load Factor (%)                                                                                                                                                     53.0      51.9
2. Iso'ated Systems
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                         12.2      15.6       14.6      12.3       7.0        7.7                    2.3        1.8       1.4        1.1       0.6        0.5      0.4
Commercial                        2.2       1.6       1.4        3.7       4.2        4.6                    1,4        1.2       0.9        0.8       0.5       0.4       0.3
Jr:duflstry                      15.7      16.4      14.2       16.6      14.8       13.1                    9.4       8.0        6.6       6.o        3.4       2.7       2.0
Agriculture                       -         3.3        0.1       4.9       4.1        3.4                    o.6        0.7       0.9        1.0       0.6        0.5      0.4
Other                             0.9       1.7        1.0       1.1       1.8        2.4                    0.8        0.7       o.6        0.4       0.2       0.2       0.1
Total                        31.0                 31.3      3.         19        31.2                   1.5                              9.3       5                          (_)28.6
Losses (9WEL)                         32.0      31.6      37.1       20.5      27.1       14.2                    7.7        6.2       4.6        4.1       1.8       1.3       0.9
(M)                          50.8      45.o       54.2      34.7       45.9      31.3                    34.7      33.3       30.7      30.6       25.4      23.2     22.0
G,eneration (GWh)                    63.0      70.2       68.4      59.1       59.0      45.4    (-)6.8         22.2       18.6      15.0       13.4       7.1        5.6      4.1    (_)32.5
TOTAL BPDB
Sales (GWh)
Dio-_CZti:_                     121,4     164.8      154.7     135.3      144.2     180.0       8.2        207.2      225.1     241.2      256.7     295.8      340.6    392.3        11.2
Commercial                       59.3      69.5       54.1      87.6     125.4      330.6      17.1        141.3      160.7     166.9      192.5     221.8      255.5    294.2        13.0   j
Industry                        428.1     570.9      597.8     657.5     680.9      795.3      13.2        856.8      962.8   1,U81.2   1,235.3   1,384.6   1,553.1  1,771.7          12.9
Agriculture                       1.3       5.7        5.3      24.4       37.3      17.6      68.4          55.8      96.4      166.9     235.2      295.8     369.1    424.9        40.3
Other                            12.7      17.3       23.2      27.0      25.2       81.0      44.9          83.0      96.4     111.3      106.8      123.5     141.9    163.4        12.0    a
Total                       622.8   o2b.2       835.1      931.8   1,013.0   1,204.5       14.1      1,344.1   1,541.4   1, .       77 2,0265   2,321.5            T 1            i4.6    '
Annual Growth (%)                      33.0        0.8      11.6        8.7      18.9                    11.6      14.7       14.7      14.7       14.6      14.6     14.5
Losses (GWh)                        462.8     437.2      486.9     528.2      606.4     708.3                   796.9     793.9      794.0     827.8      858.2     885.4    910.3
(%)                         42.6       34.6      36.8       36.2      37.4       37.0                   37.2       34.0      31.0       29.0      27.0       25.0     23.0
Generation ((Wn)                  1,085.6   1,265.4   1,322.0   1,460.0   1,619.4   1,912.8                  2,141.0   2,335.3   2,561.5   2,854.3   3,179.7   3,547.7  3,896.8           10.5
Annual Growth (%)                           16.6       4.5      10.4       10.9      18.1       12.0         11.9       9.1        9.7      11.4       11.4      11.5      11.5
1/ The two grids (West and East) are due to be interconnected by mid-1984  through a 230kv hioie.
2/ . 97% coincidence factor has been assumed for the maximum demands in the West and East zones.



PEOPLE' S hEPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
F = Foreign                                            Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
L = Local
T = Total                                              Greater Khalna Power Distribution Project
Investment Program
(in Tk million)
Source of                         Subtotal                                                       Subtotal    Total
Foreign                           1978/79 -                                                      1980/81 -  1978/79 -
Fiscal Years Ending JJune 30     Finance      1978/79   1979/80    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85    1984/85    1984/85
A. GENERATION
(a) East Zone
Kaptai               F    AID            20.0       30.0      50.0       40.0       30.0      -         -          -         70.0       120.0
(50 MW hydro)        L                   30.0      20.0       50.0       10.0      10.0       -         _          _         20.0       70.0
50.0      50.0     100.0        50.0        0       -          -         -          90 0      190.0
Chittagong           F    CSSR           20.0      35.0       55.0       70.0      7          -         -          -        JT440       199.0
(60 MW Steam)        L                   20.0      35.0       55.0       80.0      82.0                                     162.0      217.0
T                  4i0.0      70.0     110.0      150.0      156.0      _          _         _         306.0       le, 0
Ghorasal             F       -           -      _ _.0                              384.0   d     8                           6.0          0.0 7
(2x100 MW Steam)     L                   -         _          _          87.0     348.0      261.0     130.5       43.5     870.0      870.0
T -             _         _ 1            732.0     549.0      7175       91.5   15300    1,300
Kaptai               F    CSSh           -         -          -          37.1     1          111.2      5          ;        3           370
(2x50 MW hydro)      L                   _         _          _          42.9     171.8      128.8      64.4       21.5     429.4       429.4
T _             _        _~ 0            320. 0240.0          120.0      8    0 0         0 2500.0
Shajibazar           F       -           -          -          _ _ _                          -         5  7T      8        254.5 8
(100 MW Steam)       L                   -         -          _          _         _          _         22.3       81.7     104.0       104. o
-  -  -          -         -          -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -6   -    7 
AshaganJ                     -           -          -         -          - -                  91.2    2 .                    592. 8
(20C M.W Steam)      1                   - L                  - L  _                          31.8      79.5       95.4     206.7       206.7
T         _               _         _          _          _            123.0      307.5     369.0     799.5       7995
Siddhirganj          F       -           -          -         -          -          -         -         -          91.2      91.2        91.2
(200 MW Steam)       L                   -         -          -          _         _          _         -          31.8      31.8        31.8
T -                 -           -         -     _              -        123.0      123.0      I     T8
SengF u                                                                  - -  -                                     5 _    _    _   25.4  5
(3x27.5 MW hydro)   L                    _         _          _          _         _          _         -          38.1      38.1        38.1
(b) West Zone
Khulna               F    Japan          -        286.8      286.8       -          -         -          -         -                    286.8
(2x28 MW gas turbine)L                   -        108.6      108.6       -         -          -         -          -         -          108.6
-        395.4     395.4        -         -          -         -          -         -         395.4
Khulna               F    Sweden         -          50.0      50.0       -          -         -          _         _          _          50.0
(Inst. lx12 MW       L                   _         16.0       16.0       -         -          -         -          -         -           16.0
gas turbine) )
T             ~    ~-   66.0       66.0O       -         -         -          -          -         -          66.0
Khulna               F                    _ 3                            -          -         -          -         -          -3
(Rehab.lxl2 MW gas
turbine)         L                   -          10.0      10.0       -          -         -          -         -          -          10.0
T 4                 6     . 8        -           _        _          _         _          _         4 6         . o
F;hulna              F       -           -          12.0      12. 0      13.0       -         -          -         -          13. O
(2x6.5 MW gas
turbine)          L                   -          10.0      10.0        2.0       -         -          _         -           2.0       12.0
_         22.0      22.0        15.0      -                                         15.0        37.0
Bheramara            F    KfW            -          50.0      50.0    O             -         -          -         -       -28. ;
(20 MW gas turbine)  L                   -         20.0       20.0        4.4       -         -          -         -           4.4       24.4
-         70.0      70.0        33.0      -          -         -          -         33.0       103.0
Khulna               F    CSSR           40.0      150. 0    190.0      200.0       50.0      -          -         -         250.0      4
(110 MW Steam)       L                   40.0     150.0      190.0      100.0       86.o      -          -         -         186.3      376.0
T                  50.       300.0     350.0       30.0      136.0       -              3.              436.0     516. 0
rFa.tore             F       -      _               _          ~         56.0o    140.0      If 112.O              56.0      532.0      532.  O  1
(125 MW Steam)       L                   _         _           _         22,5       56.3      67.5      45.0       22.5      213.8      213.5
F _             _ -_            78,5    196.3       235.5     157. 0O         78.5              7450
Barisal              F       -           -          -         -          -          -         -          56.0     140.0      196.0      196.0      F 0
(100 MW Steam)       L                   _          -         _          _          _         _         22.5       56.3       78.8       78.8
TOTAL GENERATION
F                  80.0      650.6     730.6       540.7     826.2     658.4      650.2     852.9   3,528.4    4,259.0
L                  90.0      369.6     459.6       348.8     754.1     489.1      364.2      390.8   2 347 0    2 806 6
T                 170.0                   2         9.5   1,550.3              1014.4                5,875. 



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
in r.wstment Program
(in Tk million)
Source of                      Subtotal                                                       Subtotal    Total
Foreign                        1978/79 -                                                      1980/81 -   1978/79
Fiscal Years Ending June 30        Finance    1978/79   1979/80    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85    1984/85        1984/85
B. TRAIBSMISSION
East-West Interconnection       Kuwait/
Abu Dhabi
F                  10.0     120.0      130.0      212.0      48.0      214.8      -         _         474.8      604.8
L                  15.0      80.0       95.0      172.0     128.0       63.2      -         _         363.2      458.2
T                  25.0     200 0      225.0      384.0     176.0      278.0      -         -         838.0    1,063.0
132 kv Lines and Sub-           Various
stations               F                   73.0      75.0     148.0        57.0     142.1     131.7       62.1      58.7     451.6       599.6
L                  44.3      47.0       91.3       51.6     113.0      141.3      64.5      55.6      426.o      517.3
T                 117.3     122.0      239.3      10.       2551       273.0     126.      114.3   _776    1,116.9
TOTAL TRANSMISSION
F                  83.0     195.0      278.0      269.0     190.1      346.5      62.1      58.7      926.4    1,204.4
L                  59.3     127.0      186.3      223.6     241.0      204.5      64.5      55.6      789.2      975. 5
T                 142.3     322.0      464.3      492.      431.1      551. 0    12  6      1       1,715.6    2,179.9
C. DISTRIBUTION               F                 265.0     295.0      560.0      307.6     447.7      378.0     253.9     302.2   1,689.4    2,249.4
L                 290.0     315.0      605.0      283.9     413.2      349.0     234.4     279.0   1,559.5    2 164.5
T                 555.0     610.v   1,i65.0       591.5     B60.9      727.0     488.3     551.2   349                9
D. OTHER INVESTMENTS
F                 123.0       96.0     219.0       4o.o      25.0       17.0      15.0       10.0     107.0      326.0
L                  78.0       60.0     138.0       30.0       15.0      13.0      10.0       10.0      78.o      216.0
T                 201.0     156.0      357.0       70.0      40.0       30.0      25.0      20.0      185.0      542.0
TOTAL INVESTNTS
(Price Basis mid-1978/79)
F                 551.0   1,236.6   1,787.6    1,157.3   1,489.0   1,399.9       981.2   1,223.8   6,251.2    8,038.8
L                 517.3     871.6   1 388.9       886.3   1,423.3   1,055.6      673.1      735.4   4 773 7    6 162.6
T               1s6.    2       ?   3 176       20        2,912.3   2,455,5   1543   1,9592110249   1401.4 _la
Price Contingencies                                                                      2
F                  _          86.6      86.6      162.0      342.5     434.0     392.5      611.9   1,942.9    2,029.5
L                  _         104.6     104.6      203.8      512.4     517.2     430.8      588.3   2 252 5    2,357.1      Iw
T                  _        191.2      191.2      365o       85.9 ' 951.2        823.3   1,200.2   4,1954    4,3386.6 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
(At Escalated Cost)
F                 551.0   1,323.2   1,874.2    1,319.3   1,831.5   1,833.9   1,373.7   1,835.7   8,194.1   10,068.3
L                 517.3      976.2   1,493.5    1 090 1   1,935.7   1,572.8   1 103 9   1,323.7   7,026.2    8,519.7    X
m   1X068.3   2,299.4   3,367.7    24094   3,767.2   34 7    ,.           ,159.4  15,220.3   15,I55.0
Price Contingencies
Foreign                                        -        7%          -         7%         7%        7%        7%         7%         -           -
Local                                          -       12%          _        10o        10%       10%       1 0%       10%         _ 



- 36-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4 pages
SUMMARY
of Presidentts Order No. 59 of 1972 (as amended)
creating the Bangladesh Water and-Power Develop-
ment Boards
(promulgated on May 31, 1972 and amended on
January 5, 1978)
The following paragraphs refer only to those parts of the ordinance which deal
with the power board. References to the water board have been omitted.
BPDB is a corporate body with perpetual succession and has the right
to acquire, hold and dispose of property. It can sue and can be sued. For the
purpose of the Electricity Act (Act IX of 1910) the Board is considered a
licensee.
The Board consists of a Chairman and not more than five other
members, all to be appointed by the Government. The Chairman and the members
hold office for such period and onsich terms and conditions as the Government
determines. The Government may terminate at any time the appointment of the
Chairman or any other member without giving any reason. The Chairman and the
other members exercise such powers and perform such functions as are assigned
to them by the Board or the Government. At a board meeting, each member has
one vote and, in the event of equality of votes, the Chairman has a casting or
second vote.
In discharging its functions, the Board is guided by such directions
as the Government may give from time to time.
The Board has to prepare for Government approval:
(a)   a comprehensive plan for the development and utilization of
power resources in the country; and
(b)   schemes for the whole of Bangladesh or any part thereof
which provide for all or any of the following matters:
(i)   generation, transmission and distribution of power; and
(ii) construction, maintenance and operation of power houses
and grids.
When submitting a scheme for Government approval, the following information must
be attached:
(a)   a description of the scheme and the manner of its execution;
(b)   an estimate of costs and benefits, the allocation of costs
to the various purposes to be served by the scheme and the
amounts to be paid by the beneficiaries; and



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4 pages
(c)   if necessary, a proposal for the resettlement or rehousing
of persons likely to be displaced by the scheme.
The Government has the right to either:
(a)   approve the scheme; or
(b)   reject the scheme; or
(c)   ask for additional information; or
(d)   request such further investigations as it considers necessary.
Any scheme framed by an agency in Bangladesh other than a Board,
which concerns matters of electric power, shall be submitted to the Government
through the Board if the estimated cost of the scheme exceeds the amount to be
prescribed by the Government. The Government then may approve, reject, ask for
additional information or request further information before approval of the
scheme. A scheme can be amended or modified at any time but, if a material
change 1/ is contemplated, previous approval of the Government must be obtained.
The Board has the right to take over and maintain the works carried
out under a scheme of another board. Should disputes on the transfer modalities
arise, the Government has the authority of final decision.2/
The Board may, with the approval of the Government, undertake the
execution of any scheme or exercise teclnical supervision and administrative
and financial control over the execution of any scheme framed or sponsored by
any agency in respect of electric power. In carrying out its responsibilities,
the Board has the right to install the equipment required. It is also entitled
to incur the expenditures within the budget, acquire land 3/ and exert control
over the operation of all power houses and grids necessary for proper operation.
With the approval of the Government, the Board may:
(a)   set maintenance standards for power houses anad grids;
(b)   simplify the method of charges for electricity;
(c)   upon payment of a reasonable compensation, declare any
1/ A material change is either an increase in the cost of a scheme by more tharn
15% or a change in the cost/benefit ratio which makes the cost exceed the
benefits or reduces the benefits by more thaln 15%.
2/ There is also a stipulation in paragraph 21(2) which prohibits the Government
to hand over any power scheme carried out by the Board to any of the Government
agencies or local authorities.
3/ Land acquisition is considered for a public purpose within the meaning of the
Land Acquisition Act 1894 or any other law in force from t:ime to time.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4 pages
power generating station belonging to a licensee to be a
"controlled station". This permits the Board to regulate
the production from such station; and
(d)   require the owner of a controlled station in a grid area:
(i)   to supply to the grid all or part of the power
generated at the station at such rates as may be
determined by the Government;
(ii) to take from the grid all or part of the electric
power for distribution to his consumers; and
(iii) to close down the station on payment of a reasonable
compensation.
The Government may appoint officers, advisors, consultants and other
employees on terms and conditions it may determine. However, it may delegate
to the Poard or the Chairman or any member or officer of the Board its powers
of appointing personnel as well as its administrative, disciplinary or financial
powers relating to the Board's personnel.
The capital of the Board consists of the following:
(a)   subscribed share capital (at present Tk 5 billion all
subscribed by the Government);
(b)   Government grants;
(c)   grants by local authorities;
(d)   bonds issued under the authority of the Government;
(e)   loans obtained from the Government;
(f)   loans and foreign aid obtained by the Board with the special
or general sanction of the Government;
(g)   sale proceeds of electricity; and
(h)   all other sums received by the Board.
With prior approval of the Government, the Board may borrow money for the purpose
of carrying out its functions.
Tariffs should cover:
(a)   operating expenses;



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4 pages
(b)   interest;
(c)   depreciation;
(d)   amortization of loans as far as it exceeds depreciation;
(e)   taxes; and
(f)   a reasonable return on investment.
The Board shaLl annually submit for Government approval its budget,
by such date and in such form as prescribed by the Government. The budget
should indicate the estimated receipts and expenditures as well as the sums
required from the Government.
The Board shall maintain proper accounts in accordance with Govern-
ment guidelines. The Government may appoint one or more auditors. In addition,
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh may carry out audits at his
discretion. If no auditor is appointed by the Government in any given year,
the Auditor-General automatically carries out the audit. In case an independent
auditor is appointed, the Government may:
(a)   require special reports by the auditor concerning the
adequacy of measures taken by the Board for the protection
of the interests of the Government and of the Board's creditors;
(b)   enlarge or extend the scope of the audit;
(c)   direct that a different procedure in carrying out the audit
shall be adopted; or
(d)   require that any other examination shall be made by the auditor
or any other person if, in its opinion, the interest of the
Government so requires.
The Board! shall comply with any directive issued by the Government for the
rectification of matters objected to in the audit.
The Board shall, as soon as possible after the end of every fiscal
year, furnish to the Government the audited statements of accounts together
with an annual report describing the Board's activities during the past yecr
and its proposal for the next year. These reports are published in the Official
Gazette.



BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
ORGANIZATION CHART
vt                                th~~~~~~~~~~~~re doard
Memt7ber Genaeraient                                                                                      M.te                                                                                                                       Mee                                   Pesone errd
| nrilranarrrisain |                                                                                                                  j       rieRritior   IPIFranm                                                                                                            rann
rooooli I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rilr
NflC R                                                                                                                                                                        o   l   r  of
Conuenruceierd;;      Mago  i Transmission                           Drr   uareflra                 SuuOin   ing  *utr(nu,nu s            *u    Lunencng                Ch;rragoeting           Puu hefrl          ircs                    Finane and AedirrDreto
Engine, i              Siddhitg-an             Engineer                 ilecirifarin.,        Engineer Openr.ion     Enginenl,               En 3ineer  -oni        Engineer Eacri            Engineer Diari-      Customs and             Fimnne                 P-rchase                Personnel ,
Chiteegang                                      aent-g and                                    Detne                   Ghurln                                       ,rv Euppin               eerie Rgaj,hah         Moving
Managar                                      WDmnnueiogon  ireener Pr=jeet                                           Sp,,er,nending          Chittagong                                                            DMrecor                 Director               Direeor1
gdperinrn-dinm          Ghrrsal                                       gIannang                uueeinfenomnb          friDemnroneno           Engineer                                       SuGeh nrnnrf.ng        Projt G -Preeter        Accounrt                Re--nue                Training
Engineer                                       Eo-rrirrendine                                 Engineer               Eng -m                  M,--mqnsinth           SuPrint,lcdmijg        Eng -eer Distri        Prestresee-
lt O MW SeCtion        t,anger                 Engineer <u-d G;rennor Sunrirn                 Mainrenanne Dacta      Jessm                                           Engineer Dirrl-       bEnni. Rengeur          Conorere                Direerom                                       Di raEtr
Khuinc                 A-hu-tne                C'isngreh              D;u.nicr                                                                 pernrn l             hriun C-re rstn-                                Point                  Audit                                          Es,ape and
Duperretendinh         Dupe irStendimg         Enginee                                        Manager OPeration                                                                             T-ate-s
etuEorintenuinn         Manager              *Sup rinnandine           nirrtnror Geeryn        Engineer                 irugirreeti           E lEfc                  gunti,iitend ng        and Magntenance        D renter
___                    D Shaizhe-ar           Engineer Central        end Seandarda I         Greeter Dacea          Faridpur                                       Eni,eer -Ditr           Norrhern Crcle         Diesil                                                                Di-
KWuln}                                         Equip-ent and                                                                                                        buEtin Coilla          Diiipnur               Generation                                                            SE-urite and
Manager                Repair ShDp             Direnetr Design      NSuperinmending         *Superinend ng                                                                                                                                                              igei
*uperintending         Ktapei H"dro                                   S-Dnderds ii            Enginee- Seler         Engine                                         Project D rentr
Engineer                                                                                      Genoa                  Earisai                                        Greeter CrnretvgochDiEco
BEgra                  M-nager                                        Director                                                                                      Di ,tribunron                                                                                                         Enquir
KElne                                          greg-ae sG*irtcrec Cisil                                                                     Proipcr                                                                                                               n   isil
*Dupenirre d            Wno                                                                   Works                                                                                                                                                                                      aed DiWpilt
Engwni-t               Maneger                                        Dirent,r Plectric,l                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dirotter
Deoca                  Eheramara                                      Egiiprmenr                                                                                                                                                                                                          Enginering
Dauperirrending         DreDerineending
Engineer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dtr ctor
Grid -'d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pu.,i Re
nterconnection   Cerrier West                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tln
SDuorintenginE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      leeo
Enainear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L0              iI
Grend end                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l+r
C artier EastLra
Worl d B tit E    9-d



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Training
1.        This annex describes GOB's and BPDB's schooling and training
facilities available in Bangladesh as far as they are of importance for
electric power utilities.
A.        Public Institutions
2.        Bangladesh has the following public schooling institutions:
(a)    4 colleges in Dacca, Chittagong, Khulna and Rajshahid.
Dacca has university status;
(b)    18 politechnic institutes; and
(c)    about 30 vocational training centers.
Colleges
3.        All four colleges offer a wide variety of courses among which are
those for engineering sciences, commerce and accounting.  Depending on the kind
of course, studies take 2-4 years. About 800 engineers per year graduate from
all colleges. The breakdown of the graduating engineers is about as follows:
(a)    300 electrical engineers;
(b)    200 mechanical engineers; and
(c)    300 civil engineers.
In addition, the graduating classes include a few chemical engineers.
Politechnic Institutes
4.        The politechnic institutes offer 3-year courses for technicians with
a total of about 2,400 graduates per year. About 30% are electrical technicians,
20% mechanical, 30% civil and the remainder are technicians for other trades.
Vocational Training Centers
5.        There are about 30 vocational training centers in the country with
about 200 students per institute. An average 60% of the students who enter
classes eventually finish the training.



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 off 3 pages
Quality of Public Training Institutions
6.        In the opinion of the staff members of the Power Board who the
mission interviewed, the quality of the training in the university and colleges
is very good.  Teachers are first rate and adequate training equipment. and
material is available. Unfortunately, this is not so for the politechnic
institutes and vocational training centers which suffer both from insufficiently
trained teachers as well as shortage of training equipment.
Cost of Training
7.        Although tuition is subsidized by Laie Government, the total cost of
education in Bangladesh is expensive when compared to the prevailing family
income. This is particularly true for families living outside the major urban
centers, especially Dacca, who, in addition to the tuition fees, have to defray
the cost for boarding and subsistence.  The appLoximate monthly cost per student
is as follows:
(a)    Colleges:  tuition          Tk 40.00
boarding        " 300.00
Tk340.00 (about US$22.00)
(b)    Politechnic Institutes:
tuiticon       Tk 30.00
boarding        " 200.00
Tk230.00 (about US$ 15.00)
(c)    Vocational Training Centers:
tuition        Tk 15.00
boarding        " 100.00
Th115.00 (about US$7.50)
Due to the sufficient number of vocational training centers, only
a small number of students has to use boarding facilities.
8.        Although not substantial in absolute terms, the cost of education
is high when compared to the family income level in Bangladesh.  The monthly
salary of middle uanagement employees in BPDB is about US$70.00 per monlth.
B.        BPDB's Training Facilities
9.        At present, BPDB operates the following training centers:
Kaptai Engineering Acade
10.       The Kaptai Engineering Academy is BPDB's largest training center- and
offers the following classes:



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3 pages
(a)    induction training for engineers recruited from the college;
(b)    training for power plant operators and cable jointers;
(c)    special programs (refresher courses) for senior engineers;
(d)    management training for administrative officers; and
(e)    seminars for accountants and finance officers.
The center can accomodate 150 participants at a time.
Donghi (Dacca)
11.       This center offers seminars on selected topics for senior engineers.
It has a capacity for 150 participants and can provide accomodation for 50
persons.
Ghorasal
12.       This training center was built with aid from Russia which is also
providing 11 instructors. It was inaugurated in 1977 and so far about 75
employees have passed the courses. The training comprises 2-year full time
courses for graduates from politechnic institutes in welding, cable jointing,
dist:ribution construction and similar subjects. The center can accomodate
simultaneously 150 participants.
Regional 1'raining Centers
13.       There are regional training centers in Khulna, Rjshahid and Chittagong
and, in the planning stage,in Dacca. They have been established Eor training
of foremen, linemen and cable jointers in all trades of distribution construction
and maintenance.



- 44 -
AINEX 7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khalna Power Distribution Project
Project Cost Estimate
TTK 1 = US$15,50)
1TK million   U---------   $ million-------
Local    Foreign       Total     Local      Foreign       Total
132 - kV Systemn
Substatic,ns                    0.90(    10.788        11.688    0.058        o.696       0.754
3, - kV System
Overhead Lines                  4.o80      8.924       13.004    0.263        0.576       o.839
Substations                     2.735    17.127        19.862    0.176        1.105       1.281
11 - kV System
Overhead Linis                 27.600    50.792        78.392    1.781        3.277       5.058
Cables                          2.40()    51.440       53.840    0.155        3.319       3.474
Substatiocns                    4.087   )45.040        49.127    0.264        2.905       3.169
0.415 - 1kV Systemn
Overhead Lines                 17.307    27.394        44.701    1.117       1-.767       2.834
Cables                          0.700      7.000        7.000    o.0145       o.452       0.497
Consumer Services                 27.000      8.600       35.60o     1.742       0.555       2.297
Service Vehicles and
Communication Equipment            6.515      0.207         6.722    0.420       0.013        0.433
Buildinags                        43.900        -         43.900    2.832           -         2.832
Iocal Freight                     20.150        -         20.150    1.300           _         1.300
Engineering Services               2.800    12.700         15.500    0.181        0.819       1.0(0
"raining                           6,200    10.075        16.275    0.400        o.650        1.050
BPDBB's Administrat,ion           43.317       -          43.317    2.795         -          2. 795
DAties and Taxes                  60.580        -         60.580    3.960                     3-960
Sub Total                     270.271   250.087       520.358   L7.489       16.134      33.623
Cnnt.in genrias
Physical 1/                    15.737    22.731        38.468    1.015        1.467       2.482
Price  /                       081.747    L2.762      124.509    5. 274       2,759       8.o33
TOTAL PROJECT COST               367.755   ]15.580       683.335   23.778       :20.360     44.138
Note:  1/  Physical coritingencies:  :lO/. for equi-pment, materials and civil works.
</  Price contingencies:  74 per yeEar for foreign eoust and 120 in FY L979/80 and 10o per year there-
af-ter  or local cost.



Creater P*iolna Power Distribution Project
Estimated Construction Schedule
tetivities                               Y  1980                             FY  1981                              FY 1982                               FY  1983
JA S  OCND3JFMAM. J .JSAL   OT1DJFMAMJ    J A  S O N  D  J F M A  M  J   JA   s S                                               N D J  F M A  M  J
Selection and Appointment of Consultants   X X X X X XXY
Re>,iew of Existing Networks and Mapping
in the Project Areas                    XXXXXXXXX
Detailed Network Design                               XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
Preparation of Bid Documents and
Tnvitatioro'p Tenders                                  XXXXXXXXXXX
Tenider Evaluations and Awards                                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Organization of Stores                                                             XXXXXXX
Delivery and Inspection of Material
and Equipment                                                                            XYXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Land Acquisition                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Civil Works                                                                     XXXXXXXXXXXYXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXlXXXXX
Construction of Substations                                                                      XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX P XXXXXXX
Erection of Lines                                                                                 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Connections (rehabilitation and new)                                                          XXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Installation of Pole mounted
Transformers                                                                                    XXXXXXX XXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Inspection, Acceptance Testing
and Commissioning                                                                                  XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal                                    US$ million
Year and Quarter                              Equivalent              % Undisbursed
1980
December 31, 1979                                  -                     100
March 31, 1980                                    0.40                    99
June 30, 1980                                     2.60                    91
1981
September 30, 1980                                5.00                    82
December 31, 1980                                  7.20                   74
March 31, 1981                                    9.70                    65
June 30, 1981
1982
September 30, 1981                               13.00                    54
December 31, 1981                                16.80                    40
March 3,1, 1982                                  19.30                    31
June 30, 1982                                    21.00                    25
1983
September 30, 1982                               22.50                    20
December 31, 1982                                23.80                    15
March 31, 1983                                   25.60                     9
June 30, 1983                                    26.80                     4
1984
September 30, 1983                               27.50                     2
December 31, 1983                                28.00                     0



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Boara (BP1D)
US$1 = Tk 15.5
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Actual and Forecast Income Statements lQ77/78 - 1984/85
(in Tk million unless otherwise indicated)
Actuall/    ------------------------------Forecast-----------------------------------------
Fiscal Years Ending June 30                                      1977/78      1?-/78/,     1979/ O       90/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
Sales of Electricity (Gwh)                                       1,204.5      1,344.1      1,541.4      1,767.5     2,026.5      2,321.5      2,660.2      3,046-5
Average Revenues per lkwh Sold (paisa)                             44.6         44.6         65.o         7P.0         91.5         91.5       100.0         100.0
Revenues
Revenues from Ssles of owe-                                     537.5        599.5      1,001.9      1,378.7     1,853.7      2,124.2      2,660.2      3,046.5
Other Operating Income                                            12.2         15.4         17.2         18.7        19.6         21.4         22.3         24.0
Total Operatirng Income              61                                  - 4.9         1,019.1     139737.4                  2,!45.6      26Z5         3,070 5
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                                             392.7        441.1        572.5        714.4       780.0        809.6        883.8        944.7
Personnel                                                        138.1        145.2        155.4        166.2        177.9        190.3        203.7        217.9
Operation, Maintenance and Administration
(including provision for bad debts)                             128.8        184.0       202.4        222.6        238.2        254.9        272.7        291.8
Depreciation                                                     149.5        215.3        238.6        282.9        349.8        441.8        519.4        582.1
Total Operating Expenses                                     -09T          75          1,168, 9    1,38.1       i,545.9      -,        7              2,036.
.Net Operating Revenues                                         -  259.4    -  370.7    -  149.8           11.3        327.4        449.0       802.9      1,034.0
Other Revenues                                                     4.2          6.9          7.5          8.0          8.9         10.0         11.4         12.6
Interest                                                           144.6        208.0        282.7        378.3        492.4        620.3        715.4        798.8
Less: Interest During Construction                            -   75.3    -   68.6    -   94.2    -  126.1    -  164.0    -  206.8    -  238.5    -  266.3
Interest Expense                                                  69.3        139.4        188.5        252.2     *32B,4          413.5        476.9        532-5
Profit/Loss                                                     -   324.5    -  503.2    -  330.8    -  232.9            7.9         45.5        337.4      __ 8__ x4
Operating Ratio                                                    159%         183%         133%         117%         100%          98%          88%          84%   o 
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets in                                                                                        -
Operation                                                         -            -            -            -             3.5%         3.8%         5.9%         6.8% n
17 Based on BFDB's preliminuay income statement.
2/ The average revenues per kwh sold based on BPDB's present tariff are paisa 47.  The reduced level of paisa 44.6 per kwh is due to
presently incomplete meter reading. Much improved meter reading procedures are expected for FY79/80 and full realization of the
revenues from sales of electricity has therefore been assumed.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements 1978/79 - 1984/85
TotaL
Fiscal Years Ending Tune 30                          1978/79     197,9/30     1980/81      1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85      1978/79-1934/85
SOURCES
Internal Sources
Net Operating Revenues                         - 370.7    -  149.8           11.3        327.4       449.0        802.9      1,034.0          2,104.1
Other Revenues                                       6.9         7.5          8.0          8.9         10.0        i1.4         12.6             65.3
Depreciation                                       215.3       238.6        282.9        349.8        441.8       519.4        582.1          2 629.9
Gross Internal Sources                                             96.3       302.2      6T86.         900.8      1,333.7      1,628.7          4,799.3
Less: Debt Service
Amortization                                 57.4         59.2         61.9         68.4       121.6        190.4        278.6            837.5
Interest                                    208.0        282.7        378.3       492.4        620.3        715.4        798.8          3,495.9
Less:Interest during Constructior        -   68.6    -   94.2    -  126.1    -  164.0    -  206.8    -  238.5    -  266.3             - 1,164.5
Interest Expense                            1394         1            252.2       328.4        413.5        476.9        532.5          2,331.4
Total Debt Service                                           247.7        314.1        396.8       535.1        667.3        811.I          3 168.9
Net Internal Sources                                 345.3    -  151.4    -   11.9         2.3          365.7       666.4W 7.        6 1T7fT          4
External Sources
Government Equity Contribution                     258.7       488.1        545.1      1,012.9       873.0        671.6        909.0          4,758.4
Government Subsidy                                 400.0        -            -            -            -           -            -               400.0
Foreign Currency Loans                             551.0     1,323.2      1,319.3      1,941.5     1,998.9      1,593.7      2,275.7         11,003.3
Local Currency loano                               30-6.9      680.o        600.0        770.0        520.0         -           -             2,876.9
Total External Sources                             1,516.6     2,491.3      2,464.4      3,724.4     3,39i.9      2,265.3      3,184.7         19,038.6
TOTAL SOURCES                                        1,171.3     2,3399       2,452.5      4,013.7      3757.6      2931.7       40023           20 669.0
APPLICATIONS
Investments  Foreign                                 551.0     1,323.2      1,319.3      1,831.5      1,833.9     1,373.7      1,835.7         10,068.3
Local                                  517.3        976.2     1,090.1      1,935.7      1,572.8      1,103.9     1,323.7           8,519.7
Replacements                            -            -            -          200.0        300.0        400.0        800.0          1 700.0
Total Investments                    1,06.3      2,299.4      2,409.4      3967.2       3,706.7      2,877.6     3959.40,2
Variations in Working Capital other than Cash         98.0         34.5        35.1         34.5         37.9         34.1         36.9           311.0
Variations in Cash                                     5.0          6.o         8.0         12.0         13.0         20.0          6.o             70.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                   1,171.3     2,339.9      2,452.5                   3,757.6      2931.7      4,002.3         20,669.
Times Total Debt Service (including interest
during construction) Covered by Net Internal
Sources (after deduction of interest during
construction)                                         _           -            -             1.2          1.2          1.5         1.5             _
Net Internal Sources as % of Investments
(annual basis)                                        _           _            _             7%          10%         23%          21%              -
Net Internal Sources as % of Investments
(3-year sliding averages)                             -           -            -             1%          6%           13%o        18%              -



- 49 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 5 pages
PEOPLE 'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
US$1 = Tk 15.5                                   Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets 1977/78 - 1984/85
(in Tk million)
Actuall/    ------------------------------------- Forecast -----------------------------------
Fiscal Years Ending June 30               1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
AS, ETS
Fixed Asse's
Gross Fixed Assets it Operati3n         6,640.9      6,816.7       8, 098.8     9,581.8    12,281.8    15,330.1    17,130.1    19,250.1
Accumulated Depreciation                  720.4        935.7       1 174.3      1 457 2      1 807 0      2,248.8      2 768 2      3 350 3
Net Fixed Assets in Operation           5,920.5 -    5,881.0       6,924.5                  T78 13,4741.3             14,361. 9    15,
Work in Provress                        1 928.9      2 821 4       3,838.7      4,765.1      6 032 3      6,690.7      7,768.3      9,607.7
Tctal Fixed Assfts                   7              1          1            1,87         1650.        19,772.0    22,130.2    25,507.5
_=urrent Assets
Cash                                      187.3        192.3         198.3        206.3        218.3        231.3        251.3        257.3
Acounts Reeeivables                     254.6        267.0         280.0        385.0        530.0        563.0        725.0        810.0
1nver,tor ies                             194.7        229.7         232.0        234.0        236.0        256.0        296.0        300.0
Other Current Assets                      263.1        266.3         287.8        290.0        291.0        306.0        336.o        340.o
Total Current Assets                                955.3        998.     1   1,115.3     1,275.3      1,356.3      1           1,70 7.3
TOTAL ASSETS                              8,749.1      9,67.        11,761.3    14,005.0    17,782.4    21,128.3    23, 738.5    27,214.8
LTAO~ILrrTFS
E;quity
Capital and Grants                      3,630(0      4,288.7       4,776.8      5,321 9      6,334.8      7,207.8      7,879.4      8,788.4
Accumulated Profit'Loss                -  448.1    -  951-3        1 282 1     1,515.0   - 1,507.1   - 1,461.6   - 1,124.2   -   610.1
TotaL Equity                         3,1i1.9 '     737T h       3     7      3,806.9    -;             5,74         ,755.2       ,178.3
Borrowings
Foreign Loans                           3,102.       3,597.5       4,864.5      6,127.5      8,012.8      9,914.6    11,371.6    13,465.9
Local Loans                             1,897.8      2,203.5       2,880.5      3 474 8      4 232 6      4 728 1      4 674 4      4,577.2
Total Borrowings                     5,000.5      5,801.0       7,745.0      9602.3                     1                       18,043.1
( urrent ,iabilities                         566.7        519.3         521.6       595.8        709.3        739.4        937.3        993.4
TOTAI LLBIB fTIE,                        8749.1       9,>7. 7      11,76;.3    14,005.0    17,782.4    21,128.3    23,738.5    27,214.8
Debt/Equity Katio                         61:39        63:37        69:31        72:28        72:28        72:28        70:30        69:31
_/ Based on BPDB's preliMinary balance sheet.



- 50 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 5 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Notes on Financial Statements
Average Revenues per kWh Sold
The following average tariff increases have been assumed: 38% on
July 1, 1979, 20% on July 1, 1980, 17% on July 1, 1981 and 9% on July 1, 1983.
Fuel
At present, BPDB pays the following prices for fuel:
Furnace Oil                     : TK 5.25 per imp-gal(US29/USgal)
High Speed Diesel (HSD)         : TK 9.28   "  "  "  (USO5O/USgal)
Naphtha                         : TK 5.86   "  "  "  (UJS32/USgal)
Titas Gas                       : TK 5.00 (USo32)/l,OO0  cu ft
Shell Gas                       : TK 3.60 (USc23)/l,oon ciU ft
Shell gas is being used in the Shajibazar power station and Titas gas
in all the other stations in the eastern zone.  The price of furnace oil charged
is equivalent to US$12 per barrel.
Future fuel price increases are very difficult to assess. The mission
was informed that the Government does not plan to pass on all of the recent oil
price increases. A gas price increase of about 35% is expected in the near future.
but the Government also may not pass on the total increase to BPDB.
Considering the above, the following assumptions were included in the
financial projections:
Gas       : 20% price increase on January 1, 1980 and 10% every
second year thereafter.
Oil, diesel, naphta:  11% increase in FY 80 and 8% per year thereafter.
Personnel
Annual increases of 7% have been assumed representing 5% for cost of
living adjustments and 2% for promotion. No additional staff has been assumed.



- 51 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5 pages
Operation, Maintenance and Administration
The projections are based approximately on past trends. For FYs
80 and 81 increases of 10% each have been assumed, above the normal rise of
about 7%, to allow for additional maintenance required to catch up with arrears
of earlier years. The 7% increase pattern has been resumed from FY 82 onwards.
Depreciation
The assumptions are based on an annual depreciation rate of 3.2% on
average net fixed assets in operation as presently used by BPDB. This rate,
which appears low, is presently under study by the accounting consultants who
are expected to propose depreciation rates more closely related to the expected
useful lives of the various civil works and equipment items.
Internal Sources
BPDB claims that it charges capital contributions from consumers
requesting major electricity connections. However, their system of recording
is unclear at the moment. Consequently, they have been omitted from the
statements of sources and applications of funds which may understate somewhat
the net internal cash generation.
Foreign Currency Loans
BPDB's foreign loans outstanding were revalued in FY 78 to reflect
the decrease of the value of the Taka versus the US dollar. Assets ancl foreign
loans increased by Tk 1,686.9 million. The terms of all future foreign loans
were assumed at 5% interest and 25 years including 5 years of grace. The loans
are expected to cover the total foreign cost component of BPDB's investments.
Local Currency Loans
In accordance with the financial recovery plan 50% of the local cost
of BPDB's investments will be financed by Government equity contributions and
50% by Government loans at 5% interest and 25 years including 5 years of grace.
With the expected improvement of BPDB's internal cash generaticin, the need for
raising Government loans decreases steadily.
Government Subsidy
The Government has indicated that it will grant a subsidy of Tk 400
million in FY 79 to cover past financial shortfalls.



- 52 -
ANNEX 11
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BPDB)
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
RECOMMENDATIONS OF ACCOUNTING CONSULTANTS
A. General Accounting System
-     introduction of a commercial accounting system appropriate for a
public utility enterprise.
-     decentralization of bookkeeping system with creation of divisional
accounting offices to facilitate the effective supervision of field
accounting functions and the timely preparation of financial state-
ments.
-     regrouping and simplification of the chart of accounts to make them
more suitable for electric utility operations and to facilitate
management planning and control.
-     strengthening of internal control by providing complete documenta-
tion for all transactions, and the adoption of more stringent accounting
policies.
-     simplification of customer's accounting to facilitate timely billing
and collection.
*-    conducting formal training programs for accounting staff to improve
their technical efficiency.
B. Internal Auditing System
-     revision from Government to public utility auditing system in
accordance with manuals prepared.
C. Property and Inventory Accountin Systems
-     adoption of perpetual inventory method of accounting for putrchased
stock.
-     setting up of complete property records for the recording of property.
-     strengthening of inventory control.
D.  Buggetary Cotrol Systems
-     adoption of more comprelhensive annual financial plans in accordance
wLth manuals prepared.
-     creation of a budget committee to assist the Board in formulating
budget policies and objectives.
E. Accounts ReceivabLes
-     adoption of guidelines for reducirLg and controlling the level of
accounts receivable.



- 53 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Terms of Reference for Tariff Consultant
The objective of the study is to arrive at a tariff structure that will
accurately reflect the long-run marginal costs (LRMC's) of generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity for different classes of consumers, and to assess
the implications of such a tariff on the financial viability of the Bangladesh
Power Development Board (BPDB). To this end, the Consultant will:
(a)   examine in detail in the light of ongoing work at BPDB, the
present tariff, and its implications for the cash flow of BPDB,
and assess how far incremental revenue could be generated by
more attention to minimaization of system losses, more vigorous
attempts to ensure that consumers pay their bills in full and
on time, etc. This part of the study should therefore focus
on how the full revenue potential of the existing tariff can be
realized, and what charges (if any) in BPDB are necessary to
achieve this;
(b)   review and comment on the proposed investment program for the
period 1978/79 - 1988/89 of BPDB, both in relation to its mix
between generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
and in its relation to estimated future demand for electricity;
(c)   assess the degree of cross subsidization (both geographically
and by different classes of consumers) and overall subsidy
implicit in the existing tariff in relations to LRMC's of
electricity production;
(d)   analyze the extent to which such subsidization ref:lects official
Government policy objectives with regard to subsidization of
different economic sectors and classes of consumers, including
income distribution objectives;
(e)   examine whether such subsidization is consistent with the broad
development objectives of the Govetnment and consider the
effects of possible distortions arising from a divergence between
the current tariff and the economic (LRMC based) tariff;
(f)   decide both on an appropriate tariff structure, which may
differentiate between peak, shoulder and base demand and which
will also incorporate conclusions on an appropriate level of
tariffs (in relation to the one fixed in December 1974) taking



- 54 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
particular care to value the inputs into electricity supply at
the real resource cost. This will be crucial with respect to
the correct price for natural gas;
(g)   make recommendations for the transition of BPDB's existing
tariffs to the revised structure and levels, taking into
account the need for BPDB to meet the objectives of the
financial recovery plan;
(h)   make any recommendations thought necessary to ensure that the
implementation of the new tariff proceeds smoothly and
efficiently; and
(i)   make recommendations with regard to the strengthening of
BPDB's capability for the continuing study and revision
of tariff structure and levels;
2.         The Tariff Consultant shall work in close consultation with the
group of engineers specially deputed by the Power Development Board for the
Tariff Cell. He would also help in developing the required proforma for
collection of information and impart some preliminary training to the engineers
attached to the Tariff Cell.



_ 55 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.       An attempt has been made to determine the return on the project by
calculating the internal economic rate of return (IERR) on the time slice of
BPDB's total investment program for the period covered by the project (FYs 80 -
83). The following has been assumed:
(a)   all costs and benefits are in constant 1979 prices - border
prices;
(b)   the investment costs are net of interest during construction
and duties and taxes. They include the total cost of projects
the construction of which was started before the period under
consideration, but exclude the cost of projects for which
incremental benefits are not claimed;
(c)   operation, maintenance and administration costs are based on
2.5% of the capital cost of thernmal installations and 0.5%
of hydro and transmission/distribution investments;
(d)   the local construction cost has been converted to border prices
by using the standard conversion factor of 0.75. In addition,
a factor of 0.7 has been applied to the estimated unskilled
labor content (30%);
(e)   the operation, maintenance and administration c.osts, expressed
in market prices, have been converted to border prices by using
the standard conversion factor of 0.75;
(f)   imported fuel (furnace and diesel oil) is based on early - 1979
price levels. The present price for natural gas has been
increased by 35% to allow for possible price adjustments in the
near future; and
(g)   the present tariff level, increased by 38% (para 4.19) was taken
as the proxy in establishing the benefit stream.  The standard
conversion factor of 0.75 was used for conversion to border prices.
2.       The streams of costs and benefits based on the above assumptions are
shown in the following table:



- 56 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2 pages
Year         Investments             O&M                      Total        Benefits
Foreign      Local        Admin.       Fuel         Cost
-----------------------------in Taka million-------------------------
1         323.5         359.9         4.9         52.4          740.7       68.1
2         740.9         614.4       14.6         122.9        1,492.8      164.4
3         573.5         511.4       22.4         200.1        1,307.4      274.7
4         487.9         595.4        30.1        231.8        1,345.2      401.1
5         126.0          43.6        31.4        230.7          431.7      545.1
6-30        -             -          31.4        263.8          295.2      710.4
The equalizing discount rate is about 8%.



- 57 -
ANNEX 14
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Greater Khulna Electrification, Project Proforma by the Directorate
of Project Planning, Power Development Board, Dacca, dated
September 1978.
2.    President's Order No. 59 of 1972.
The Bangladesh Water and Power Development Boards Order, 1972.
3.    Bangladesh Energy Study, Final Report to the Asian Development Bank
and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (Summary),
by Montreal Engineering, Snamfiogetti, Meta Systems Inc. and C. Lotti
& Associate dated 1976.
4.    The Two Year Plan 1978-1980, People's Republic of Bangladesh, Planning
Commission, Chapter VIII: Power, Natural Resources and Scientific and
Technological Research; 8.1 Power, dated March 1978.
5.    Bangladesh, Power Sector, by Bernard Monfort, World Bank, dated
January 28, 1974.
6.    Sector Memorandum, Draft Report No. 2104-BD, Oil and Gas Sector,
Bangladesh, by Vineet Nayyor and Eugene McCarthy, World Bank, dated
April 1978.
7.    Bangladesh: The Energy Sector, Draft Memorandum by Sang San Mok,
World Bank.
8.    Summary Assessment of Load Demand based on Programmes of Different
Sectors (1977-1981), prepared by BPDB - Directorate of Systemn Planning,
Dacca.






BANGLADESH
rlu                                           r                                              .... t<> \ ........ POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
POWER SYSTEM
GREATER KHULNA POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(      %     p                                            < \ t < Z -t TFAKSMIS- ION LINES
THEE MOA  *t   X                                                                                    102 , > 6LINES -     s2v4~t
- i\t            J      ~~~~~~~~~~N                                                           nfl D5LNE
0 ~  ~~~~~                            *'0-       /      <                                                                          (  IA  2E FEL
2,T4/t_..  
D     N    J)                                                                               MAJOR POWEROTATI.NS                         .-1,
t2 R  A   J   S  SADIHUR                                                         STEAJMTUUE A A                          A
AJPUE                                                                              AONEL T
N~~' D-        
PRO,JECT A -E A
1 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ST _r MOJ_USARIEN
_   ~          ~~~~~~~~~~ \  -             EAAHEM - C                                                       -  -                                  . ER.TOALOUOAIF
9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                         N O   UM i\)5,
k   nG  AtESHa                       1                                                                           1,  \/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-F-I0-QD-E
A            L
JRI                                                                                                                                  J H  .ANJ
N9G,                                                             N
CArAT AENGAL                                                                                                               21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
e.    A'                                                   c~~~~~~~~________________ PA 1 N MPI RPBMM~A2P,AJN 
[>MI LOHIKA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
K)      BUSE                                                                                                          I    DI 



